---

title: Systems and methods for automatic print alignment
abstract: The present application is directed to systems and methods for print alignment by a continuous feed printer. A sensor of a printer detects a first line of a pattern on a non-printing side of a printing medium, the pattern comprising two non-parallel lines separated by a predetermined distance at a predetermined position of the printing medium. The printer advances the printing medium a first distance, and the sensor detects a second line of the pattern. The printer identifies a horizontal offset of the printing medium from an expected location of the predetermined position proportional to the difference between the first distance and the predetermined distance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866861&OS=08866861&RS=08866861
owner: Zink Imaging, Inc.
number: 08866861
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 716 303 entitled Printing Systems and Control Methods filed Oct. 19 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 765 311 entitled Printing Tracking Correction Methods and Systems filed Feb. 15 2013.

The present application generally relates to printing systems. In particular the present application relates to printing systems including multicolor direct thermal printers and methods for automatic alignment of printing for said printing systems.

Printers have long suffered from portability problems with the majority of printers primarily for desktop use and typically weighing dozens of pounds. Even as computing devices have moved towards more lightweight systems such as smart phones laptop computers notebook and sub notebook computers and tablet computers printing from these devices frequently requires connecting either wirelessly or physically to a desktop printer. As a result use cases for these printers are limited.

Manufacturers have attempted to extend portability to printers though current implementations suffer from various defects. For example continuous roll black and white direct thermal printers such as those used in portable credit card readers and point of sale terminals utilize a thermal printing head that applies heat to a dye impregnated in a printing medium activating the dye or color forming chemical to create black and or gray pixels. The resulting prints are frequently low resolution and relatively unstable fading and or darkening over time and as a result are useful only for temporary prints such as receipts.

Conversely continuous roll thermal wax transfer printers or dye diffusion thermal transfer printers use separate donor and receiver materials allowing color on color printing with very high stability. Prints typically do not fade unless damaged through friction. However color choices are fixed e.g. black lettering on a white medium or red lettering on a yellow medium and switching between colors requires switching cassettes or cartridges. As a result multicolor images or labels cannot be created.

Multicolor thermal printers produce full color stable prints and may be relatively small. However in typical implementations the printing medium is delivered in predetermined dimensions such as 3 inches by 5 inches or 5 inches by 7 inches limiting potential uses compared to a continuous roll printer. Other printing methods such as ink jet printers and laser printers are typically larger and heavier making them unavailable for portable printing and suffer from problems such as ink cartridges drying out before the user has consumed the maximum number of prints possible.

Furthermore as typically befits their roles as printers for other computing devices most printers lack user interfaces for editing images or text to be printed. Conversely the few that include keypads such as handheld label printers typically allow only alphanumeric entry and have formatting constraints such as fixed sizes fonts or text orientations.

The present application is directed to portable printers including printers with user interfaces for direct what you see is what you get WYSIWYG editing and printers that provide network printing capability for other computing devices such as smart phones tablet computers or other devices. In some embodiments the printers may be multicolor direct thermal printers and or may utilize continuous roll cassettes of printing media allowing printing of labels or images of variable length and in other embodiments other printing technologies may be employed. In embodiments utilizing multicolor direct thermal printers the printing medium may comprise a substrate and one or more color forming layers each impregnated with a temperature activated color forming dye having various activation times and temperatures. The printer may include a pulsing thermal print head with pulse amplitudes and frequencies controllable to selectively activate one or more of the color forming layers of the printing medium to generate a pixel of any color.

The printers may include one or more cutters capable of cutting fully through a printing medium to perform a full cut or capable of cutting only partway through a printing medium such as through a medium substrate and adhesive layer to a backing liner to perform a partial cut or kiss cut . These latter cuts may be used to make labels that may be easily peeled from a backing by a user. The printers may execute printing and image placement methods to print to or beyond the edges of the printing medium to perform full bleed printing or printing whereby the resulting image fills the printing medium without leaving an un printed border.

The printers may incorporate either a manually triggered or automatic media ejection mechanism and or cutting system. Manual triggering may be via a swipe gesture by a user via a touch sensitive input device. To reduce friction and load on the media that may cause stuttering or the appearance of visual bands on printed media the media ejection mechanism may incorporate a non circular roller that does not interfere with the media during printing and rotates into position for ejection of the media after cutting.

To print on various widths of media the printers may utilize cassettes or cartridges of different widths. Each cassette may include a spool of printing medium and to ensure the printing medium exits the cassette in a uniform fashion may dynamically vary the position of the axis of the spool of printing medium. To prevent dust or foreign bodies from interfering with printing the cassette may include a cleaning material along a media exit slot or opening. The printer may utilize a variable pressure print head such that constant pressure may be applied to the printing medium regardless of width of the medium.

To ensure proper alignment of printing and to allow printing of full bleed images across the width of the printing medium the printing medium may include an alignment pattern. A sensor of the printer may detect the alignment pattern during printing and dynamically adjust output of the print heads to remove lateral displacement errors resulting in an aligned image.

As discussed above the printer may include a user interface for editing and printing images or may directly connect wirelessly to a second device providing a user interface such as a smart phone or tablet computer. The printer may also be able to join an existing wireless network to allow printing from the second device or from other devices connected to the network. In some embodiments in which the printer does not include a user interface the printer may utilize a wireless interface to provide an access point. The second device may connect to the access point to provide images for printing or may provide configuration commands to cause the printer to join the existing wireless network allowing custom network configurations of the printer without utilizing cumbersome on board controls.

The user interface provided by the printer or by the second device may allow WYSIWYG editing in an intuitive manner allowing users to drag elements dynamically around a representation of the printed label add text or images dynamically adjust colors sizes and borders and dynamically adjust the length of a label or image to be printed. The user interface may further provide communication with an online database or store of elements and may provide functionality for purchasing elements themes images templates or other articles for generating images.

In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to a variable pressure print head for a printer. The variable pressure print head includes a print head for printing on a print medium the print head having a bow perpendicular to the plane of the print medium. The variable pressure print head also includes a platen roller for supporting the print medium. The variable pressure print head further includes a variable print head load mechanism for positioning the print head and platen roller wherein the print head and platen roller position are automatically varied responsive to a width of the print medium.

In some embodiments of the variable pressure print head positioning of the print head and platen roller is varied to maintain a constant pressure on the print medium regardless of width of the print medium. In a further embodiment of the variable pressure print head the constant pressure comprises a constant pressure per unit width of the print medium. In one embodiment of the variable pressure print head the platen roller is deflected responsive to pressure from the print head transmitted via the print medium. In a further embodiment the platen roller is deflected to have a curvature parallel to the bow of the print head.

In some embodiments of the variable pressure print head the variable print head load mechanism further comprises a head pressure controller configured for receiving an identification of a width of the print medium of a predetermined plurality of widths and selecting a position for the print head and platen roller from a corresponding plurality of predetermined positions responsive to the identified width. In other embodiments the variable print head load mechanism further comprises a screw fixed to a frame of the variable print head load mechanism in contact with the print head and rotatable to vary the bow of the print head. In still other embodiments the variable print head load mechanism further comprises a lever supporting an axis of the platen roller said lever moved to vary the position of the platen roller. In a further embodiment the lever is fixed at a fulcrum at a first position and wherein the axis of the platen roller is supported by the lever at a second position displaced from the first position. In another further embodiment the print head load mechanism includes a motor attached to the lever controlled by the variable print head load mechanism to move said lever.

In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for providing variable pressure to a print head. The method includes identifying by a head pressure controller of a printer a width of a print medium. The method also includes determining a print head and platen roller position responsive to the width of the print medium. The method further includes adjusting positions of a print head and a platen roller responsive to the determined positions.

In one embodiment of the method determining the print head and platen roller position further comprises determining positions of the print head and platen roller to provide a constant pressure on the print medium when the print medium is between the print head and platen roller regardless of width of the print medium. In a further embodiment the constant pressure comprises a constant pressure per unit width of the print medium.

In some embodiments of the method the print head has a bow perpendicular to the plane of the print medium and adjusting positions of the print head and platen roller further includes positioning the platen roller to be deflected responsive to pressure from the print head transmitted via the print medium. In a further embodiment the platen roller is deflected to have a curvature parallel to the bow of the print head.

In some embodiments of the method the head pressure controller receives an identification of the width of the print medium of a predetermined plurality of widths and determining the print head and platen roller position comprises selecting a position for the print head and platen roller from a corresponding plurality of predetermined positions responsive to the identified width.

In one embodiment the method includes reading a parameter stored on a storage medium attached to a print medium cassette to identify a width of the media. In another embodiment adjusting positions of the print head and platen roller further includes moving a lever supporting an axis of the platen roller. In a further embodiment the lever is fixed at a fulcrum at a first position and the axis of the platen roller is supported by the lever at a second position displaced from the first position. In another further embodiment the method includes controlling a motor attached to the lever.

In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for full bleed printing. The method includes cutting by a cutter of a printer a first kiss cut in a continuous printing medium at a first position displaced from an end of the continuous printing medium. The method also includes positioning by a medium advancement mechanism of the printer the continuous printing medium with a print head of the printer at a print start location between the first position and the end of the continuous printing medium. The method further includes printing by the print head a first image on a continuous printing medium to a print end location. The method also includes cutting by the cutter a second cut in the continuous printing medium at a second position between the first position and the print end location. A portion of the continuous printing medium between the first kiss cut and the second cut comprises a full bleed print.

In one embodiment the method includes cutting the first kiss cut by cutting through the continuous printing medium to an adhesive backing. In another embodiment the cutter is positioned beyond the print head in the direction of travel of the continuous printing medium by a first distance. In a further embodiment the method includes positioning the continuous printing medium with the print head of the printer at the print start location by retracting the continuous printing medium by an amount greater than the first distance. In another further embodiment the method includes cutting the second cut in the continuous printing medium at the second position by advancing the continuous printing medium after printing the first image by an amount less than the first distance.

In some embodiments of the method the second cut is a full cut. In other embodiments of the method the second cut is a kiss cut. In a further embodiment the method includes cutting by the cutter a third kiss cut in the continuous printing medium at a third position. The method also includes positioning by the medium advancement mechanism of the printer the continuous printing medium with the print head of the printer at a second print start location between the second position and the third position. The method further includes printing by the print head a second image on the continuous printing medium to a second print end location. The method also includes cutting by the cutter a fourth cut in the continuous printing medium at a fourth position between the third position and the second print end location. The portion of the continuous printing medium between the third kiss cut and the fourth cut comprises a second full bleed print. In a further embodiment cutter is positioned beyond the print head in the direction of travel of the continuous printing medium by a first distance and cutting the third kiss cut in the continuous printing medium comprises advancing the continuous printing medium by an amount greater than the first distance. In another further embodiment the fourth cut comprises a full cut.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to an apparatus for full bleed printing. The apparatus includes a print head of a printer for printing a first image on a continuous printing medium. The apparatus also includes a cutter of the printer configured for cutting a first kiss cut in the continuous printing medium. The apparatus further includes a medium advancement mechanism of the printer configured for positioning the continuous printing medium with the cutter at a first position displaced from an end of the continuous printing medium subsequent to the cutter cutting the kiss cut at the first position repositioning the continuous printing medium with the print head at a print start location between the first position and the end of the continuous printing medium and subsequent to the print head printing the first image on the continuous printing medium from the print start location to a print end location repositioning the continuous printing medium with the cutter at a second position between the first position and the print end location. The cutter is further configured for cutting a second cut in the continuous printing medium at the second position such that a portion of the continuous printing medium between the first kiss cut and the second cut comprises a full bleed print.

In one embodiment of the apparatus the cutter of the printer is configured for cutting the first kiss cut by cutting through the continuous printing medium to an adhesive backing. In another embodiment the cutter is positioned beyond the print head in the direction of travel of the continuous printing medium by a first distance. In a further embodiment the medium advancement mechanism is further configured for positioning the continuous printing medium with the print head of the printer at the print start location by retracting the continuous printing medium by an amount greater than the first distance. In another further embodiment the medium advancement mechanism is further configured for repositioning the continuous printing mechanism with the cutter at the second position by advancing the continuous printing medium by an amount less than the first distance.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the second cut is a full cut. In other embodiments the second cut is a kiss cut. In a further embodiment the medium advancement mechanism of the printer is further configured for positioning the continuous printing medium with the cutter at a third position for the cutter to execute a third kiss cut subsequently repositioning the continuous printing medium with the print head of the printer at a second print start location between the second position and the third position and subsequent to the print head printing a second image on the continuous printing medium to a second print end location repositioning the continuous printing medium with the cutter at a fourth position between the third position and the second print end location for the cutter to execute a fourth cut. The portion of the continuous printing medium between the third kiss cut and the fourth cut comprises a second full bleed print. In a further embodiment the cutter is positioned beyond the print head in the direction of travel of the continuous printing medium by a first distance and positioning the continuous printing medium with the cutter at the third position includes advancing the continuous printing medium by an amount greater than the first distance. In another further embodiment the fourth cut comprises a full cut.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a dual time constant heat sink for a thermal printer. The dual time constant heat sink includes a print head heat sink in contact with a print head of a thermal printer the print head heat sink having a first thermal time constant. The dual time constant heat sink also includes an insulator in contact with the print head heat sink and a thermal reservoir in contact with the insulator the thermal reservoir having a second thermal time constant the second time constant longer than the first thermal time constant.

In one embodiment of the dual time constant heat sink the print head heat sink has a high thermal conductivity and a small volume or a low heat capacity. In a further embodiment the print head heat sink has a thermal conductivity of at least 50 W mK.

In another embodiment of the dual time constant heat sink the thermal reservoir has a high thermal conductivity and a large volume and or large surface area or a high heat capacity. In a further embodiment the thermal reservoir has a thermal conductivity of at least 50 W mK.

In still another embodiment of the dual time constant heat sink the insulator has a low thermal conductivity. In a further embodiment the insulator has a thermal conductivity of less than 1 W mK. In a still further embodiment the thermal conductivity of the insulator is at least two orders of magnitude lower than the thermal conductivity of the print head heat sink or the thermal reservoir. In another further embodiment the thermal conductivity of the insulator is at least three orders of magnitude lower than the thermal conductivity of the print head heat sink or the thermal reservoir.

In some embodiments of the dual time constant heat sink the insulator comprises a controllable heat pipe and heat flow from the print head heat sink to the thermal reservoir is reduced during preheating of the print head of the thermal printer. In other embodiments the insulator comprises an air gap. In a further embodiment after preheating the print head of the thermal printer the air gap is closed to place the print head heat sink in contact with the thermal reservoir. In a still further embodiment the dual time constant heat sink includes a lever connected to the thermal reservoir to move the thermal reservoir to contact the print head heat sink after preheating the print head. In another still further embodiment the print head heat sink further includes a bimetallic strip configured to contact the thermal reservoir upon reaching a predetermined temperature. In other embodiments the dual time constant heat sink has no moving parts.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for controlling temperature of a print head of a thermal printer via a dual time constant heat sink. The method includes preheating a print head of the thermal printer to a first predetermined temperature the print head in contact with a print head heat sink having a first thermal time constant the print head heat sink in contact with an insulator and the insulator in contact with a thermal reservoir having a second thermal time constant longer than the first thermal time constant such that the print head heat sink reaches the first predetermined temperature before the thermal reservoir. The method also includes printing a first image via the print head the print head and print head heat sink reaching a second higher temperature the thermal reservoir at a temperature lower than the second temperature. The method further includes cooling by the thermal reservoir the print head and print head heat sink to a third temperature lower than the second temperature.

In one embodiment of the method the print head heat sink has a high thermal conductivity and a small volume or a low heat capacity. In a further embodiment of the method the print head heat sink has a thermal conductivity of at least 50 W mK. In still another embodiment of the method the thermal reservoir has a high thermal conductivity and a large volume and or large surface area or a high heat capacity. In a further embodiment of the method the thermal reservoir has a thermal conductivity of at least 50 W mK. In some embodiments of the method the insulator has a low thermal conductivity. In a further embodiment the insulator has a thermal conductivity of less than 1 W mK. In one embodiment of the method the insulator has a thermal conductivity of at least two orders of magnitude less than the thermal conductivity of the print head heat sink or the thermal reservoir. In a further embodiment of the method the insulator has a thermal conductivity of at least three orders of magnitude less than the thermal conductivity of the print head heat sink or the thermal reservoir. In another embodiment of the method the insulator comprises a controllable heat pipe and wherein heat flow from the print head heat sink to the thermal reservoir is reduced during preheating of the print head of the thermal printer. In yet another embodiment of the method the insulator comprises an air gap. In a further embodiment the method includes closing the air gap after preheating the print head. In a still further embodiment the print head heat sink includes a bimetallic strip and the method includes bending by the bimetallic strip to contact the thermal reservoir upon reaching the first predetermined temperature. In still another embodiment the dual time constant heat sink has no moving parts.

In yet still another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for print alignment by a continuous feed printer. The method includes detecting by a sensor of a printer a first line of a pattern on a non printing side of a printing medium the pattern comprising two non parallel lines separated by a predetermined distance at a predetermined position of the printing medium. The method also includes advancing by the printer the printing medium a first distance. The method further includes detecting by the sensor a second line of the pattern. The method also includes identifying by the printer a horizontal offset of the printing medium from an expected location of the predetermined position proportional to the difference between the first distance and the predetermined distance.

In one embodiment the method includes identifying a difference between the first distance and the predetermined distance by identifying a first time period from detecting the first line to detecting the second line. In another embodiment the sensor and a print head of the printer are separated by a distance in the direction of travel of the printing medium and the method includes identifying the horizontal offset of the printing medium further by adjusting the identified horizontal offset by a correction factor proportional to the distance. In yet another embodiment the first line and second line of the pattern have different widths.

In some embodiments the method includes advancing by the printer the printing medium a second distance detecting by the sensor a third line of the pattern and identifying a difference between the first distance and the second distance the difference proportional to the horizontal offset. In a further embodiment the method includes identifying a horizontal offset of the printing medium corresponding to the identified difference by identifying a horizontal offset proportional to a ratio of the difference between the first distance and the second distance and the sum of the first distance and the second distance. In another further embodiment the first and third lines of the pattern are parallel and the second line of the pattern is not parallel to either the first or third line. In still another further embodiment the method includes categorizing by the printer each of the first line second line and third line as belonging to either a first category or a second category. In an even further embodiment the method includes maintaining a state machine by the printer the state machine having probability weights corresponding to transitions from the first category to the second category and from the second category to the first category. In many embodiments the method includes printing by the printer an image on the printing side of the printing medium offset according to the identified horizontal offset. In a further embodiment the printing offset is obtained by dithering and quantizing the identified horizontal offset to a predetermined resolution.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a system for print alignment by a continuous feed printer. The system includes a continuous feed printer comprising a sensor placed to detect a pattern on a non printing side of the printing medium the pattern comprising two non parallel lines separated by a predetermined distance at a predetermined position of the printing medium. The system also includes a print engine configured for detecting via the sensor a first line of the pattern advancing the printing medium a first distance detecting via the sensor a second line of the pattern and identifying a horizontal offset of the printing medium from an expected location of the predetermined position proportional to the difference between the first distance and the predetermined distance.

In one embodiment the print engine is further configured for identifying a first time period from detecting the first line to detecting the second line. In another embodiment the sensor and a print head of the printer are separated by a distance in the direction of travel of the printing medium and the print engine is further configured for identifying the horizontal offset of the printing medium further by adjusting the identified horizontal offset by a correction factor proportional to the distance. In still another embodiment the first line and second line of the pattern have different widths.

In some embodiments the print engine is further configured for advancing the printing medium a second distance detecting via the sensor a third line of the pattern and identifying a difference between the first distance and the second distance the difference proportional to the horizontal offset. In a further embodiment the print engine is further configured for identifying the horizontal offset of the printing medium corresponding to the identified difference as proportional to a ratio of the difference between the first distance and the second distance and the sum of the first distance and the second distance. In another further embodiment the first and third lines of the pattern are parallel and the second line of the pattern is not parallel to either the first or third line. In yet another further embodiment the print engine is further configured for categorizing each of the first line second line and third line as belonging to either a first category or a second category. In an even further embodiment the print engine is further configured for maintaining a state machine the state machine having probability weights corresponding to transitions from the first category to the second category and from the second category to the first category. In many embodiments the print engine is further configured for printing an image on the printing side of the printing medium offset according to the identified horizontal offset. In a further embodiment the printing offset is obtained by dithering and quantizing the identified horizontal offset to a predetermined resolution.

In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to an overcoat for a thermal printing medium comprising two or more layers wherein at least one layer of the overcoat comprises polyisocyanate or a derivative thereof. In some embodiments at least one layer of the overcoat is an ultra violet UV curable layer. In many embodiments the ultra violet UV curable layer comprises an additive selected from the group consisting of a photoinitiator acrylate monomer diacrylate monomer triacrylate monomer siliconized urethane acrylate oligomer and combinations thereof. In some embodiments at least one layer of the overcoat comprises an additive selected from the group consisting of a latex component activator lubricant surfactant rheology control additive anti blocking additive catalyst and combinations thereof.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a printing medium cassette. The cassette includes a shell comprising a vertical slot along a center line of each lateral side of the shell and a media exit slot tangent to a curve of the shell. The cassette also includes a spool extending laterally across the shell the spool comprising two protrusions each protrusion extending into and supported by a corresponding vertical slot of the shell. The cassette further includes at least one spring configured to raise the protrusion within the vertical slot as printing media wound around the spool is withdrawn from the media exit slot.

In some embodiments an axis of the spool is raised by the spring such that the printing media exits the through the media exit slot tangent to the remaining media wound around the spool. In other embodiments the spool further comprises a central spindle and a sleeve surrounding the central spindle the sleeve able to slide laterally across the spindle within the shell. In a further embodiment the sleeve comprises a space frame. In another further embodiment the cassette includes the printing media wound around the sleeve.

In one embodiment the cassette includes a cleaning pad attached within the media exit slot. In another embodiment the cassette includes a storage memory storing parameters of the printing medium. In still another embodiment the shell includes one or more ridges or notches for providing a secure grip for a user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of dynamically resizing an image. The method includes displaying by a display of a computing device an image. The method also includes receiving by an input device of the computing device a user selection of an image resize function. The method further includes displaying by the display at least one dynamic length adjustment band as an overlay on the image. The method also includes detecting by the input device a selection and movement of the at least one dynamic length adjustment band by the user the movement having a direction and distance. The method further includes resizing the image by an image processing engine executed by a processor of the computing device in a direction corresponding to the direction of the detected movement and by an amount proportional to the distance of the detected movement.

In one embodiment the method includes displaying the at least one dynamic length adjustment band in a stretched format during detection of the movement of said dynamic length adjustment band. In another embodiment resizing the image includes i enlarging the image responsive to the direction of the detected movement being in a first predetermined direction or ii reducing the image responsive to the direction of the detected movement being in an opposing second predetermined direction.

In some embodiments the method includes scaling the display of the image subsequent to resizing the image to fully display the resized image on the display. In other embodiments the user selection of an image resize function includes a selection of a button. In still other embodiments the user selection of an image resize function includes a pinch gesture.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for dynamically adjusting the dimensions of an image. The method includes displaying by a display of a computing device an image having a first length and a dynamic selection element on the image at a first position. The method also includes detecting by a touch interface of the display a contact on the surface at the first position. The method further includes detecting by the touch interface a first motion of the contact to a second position. The method also includes displaying by the display the dynamic selection element stretched to the second position responsive to detection of the first motion. The method further includes extending by the computing device the image to a second length the second length longer than the first length by an amount proportional to a length of the first motion.

In one embodiment the method includes detecting by the touch interface a breaking of the contact at the second position displaying by the display the dynamic selection element unstretched at the first position responsive to the detection of the breaking of the contact and retaining by the computing device the image at the extended length.

In still another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for dynamically adjusting the aspect ratio of an image. The method includes displaying by a display of a computing device an image across a predetermined region of the display the image having a first length a first height and a corresponding first aspect ratio and displaying a dynamic selection element on the image at a first position. The method also includes detecting by a touch interface of the display a contact on the surface at the first position. The method further includes detecting by the touch interface a first motion of the contact to a second position. The method also includes displaying by the display the dynamic selection element stretched to the second position responsive to detection of the first motion. The method also includes extending by the computing device the image to a second length the second length longer than the first length by an amount proportional to a length of the first motion and displaying by the display the extended image across the predetermined region of the display at a second aspect ratio of the second length and the first height.

In one embodiment the method includes detecting by the touch interface a breaking of the contact at the second position. The method also includes displaying by the display the dynamic selection element unstretched at the first position responsive to the detection of the breaking of the contact. The method further includes retaining by the computing device the image at the extended length.

In still yet another aspect the present disclosure is directed to an automatic media ejection system for a printer. The media ejection system includes a platen configured to support media during and after printing. The system also includes a non circular roller positioned above the platen having a first portion with a first diameter and a second portion with a second smaller diameter the smaller diameter less than the distance between the axis of the non circular roller and the platen. The system further includes an auto ejection motor configured to rotate the non circular roller to orient the second portion toward the platen during printing of the media and rotate the non circular roller continuously to eject printed media after printing.

In one embodiment of the media ejection system the non circular roller does not contact the media during printing. In another embodiment of the media ejection system the non circular roller has a D shaped profile. In still another embodiment of the media ejection system the non circular roller comprises a high friction surface. In yet another embodiment of the media ejection system the platen comprises a low friction surface. In another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for cutting a label by a printer. The method includes receiving by a printer a first image for printing on a continuous feed printing medium. The method also includes printing by the printer the first image at a first position of the continuous feed printing medium. The method further includes detecting by a touch interface of a display of the printer a motion of a contact on a surface of the display from a first predetermined position on the display to a second predetermined position on the display and a breaking of the contact at the second predetermined position on the display. The method also includes cutting the continuous feed printing medium at a second position of the continuous feed printing medium subsequent to the printed first image by a cutting mechanism of the printer responsive to detection of the motion and breaking of the contact.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving by the printer a second image for printing on the continuous feed printing medium. The method also includes printing by the printer the second image at a third position of the continuous feed printing medium subsequent to the second position. The method further includes receiving by the direct thermal printer a third image for printing. The method also includes kiss cutting the continuous feed printing medium at a fourth position subsequent to the printed second image by the cutting mechanism responsive to receiving the third image. The method also includes printing by the printer the third image at a subsequent fifth position of the continuous feed printing medium. The method further includes detecting by the touch interface a second motion of a second contact on the surface of the display from the first predetermined position on the display to the second predetermined position on the display and a breaking of the second contact at the second predetermined position on the display. The method also includes cutting the continuous feed printing medium at a sixth position of the continuous feed printing medium subsequent to the printed third image by the cutting mechanism responsive to detection of the motion and breaking of the second contact. In a further embodiment kiss cutting the continuous feed printing medium further includes partially cutting through the medium to an adhesive backing of the medium.

In still another aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method for illustrating the progress of printing of an image via a virtual image. The method includes receiving an image for printing by a printer having a display positioned adjacent to a media ejection slot of the printer. The method also includes displaying by the printer a virtual image of the printed image on the display. The method further includes printing by the printer the image on a printing medium the printing medium advanced through the media ejection slot during printing. The method also includes during printing translating the image off the display by the printer in the direction of the media ejection slot as a speed corresponding to a printing speed of the printer.

In one embodiment the method includes positioning the image within the display offset from an edge of the display by a distance corresponding to a distance between a print head of the printer and the media ejection slot. In another embodiment of the method the speed corresponding to the printing speed of the printer is proportional to a ratio of the size of the displayed virtual image and the printed image.

The details of various embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below.

The features and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

Referring first generally to illustrated are various views of an embodiment of a printing device or printer. The printer may be a direct thermal printer capable of printing on dye impregnated or color former impregnated media in full color with the ability to print full bleed images or images that extend fully across the media. As used herein the term dye and color former may be used interchangeably to represent chemicals that form color when activated by heat UV light visible light IR light pressure or other energy. In other embodiments the printer may be a black and white direct thermal printer an ink jet printer a thermal transfer printer or any other type of printer. In some embodiments the printer may use cassettes or cartridges containing rolls or strips of media which may be cut to any length desired and the printer may include one or more cutting blades discussed in more detail below for cutting media from the rolls. The printer may include a touch screen and present a user interface for configuration editing of images for printing purchasing image elements or themes from an online store or performing other tasks or may receive images from other devices such as tablet computers laptop computers desktop computers smart phones digital cameras or any other device.

Referring now to illustrated is an isometric view of an embodiment of a printer with a user interface module . The printer may comprise an outer shell or case which may be of metal plastic a combination of metal and plastic or any other elements. In some embodiments part or all of the case may be rubberized to provide scratch or dent protection and or higher friction for a safer grip. The case may have a bent shape as shown which may be adapted to fit a user s hand in operation. Such bends may be of any angle such as 15 degrees 30 degrees or any other value. In other embodiments the case may be straight L shaped or any other shape.

The case may include a removable or rotatable portion shell or door to cover and or secure a cassette or cartridge inserted into the printer . Door may be hinged on one edge or may be held in place with clips screws thumbscrews latches pins or via any other means including compression fitting.

Printer may include a user interface module which may include a capacitive or resistive touch screen or multi touch screen liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display organic LED OLED display electronic paper or electrophoretic ink eInk display or any other type of display one or more capacitive sensors buttons switches or other contacts a keypad or keyboard a pointing stick or isometric joystick or any other input output devices or combination of these or other devices. For example in one embodiment the user interface may include a multi touch capacitive screen one or more LEDs and one or more capacitive sensors while in another embodiment the user interface may include a resistive touch screen and a stylus. The user interface module discussed in more detail below may provide functionality for configuration printing editing of images retrieving images from other devices or storage connecting to a network purchasing elements or performing other functions.

Case may include a media ejection slot or similar opening through which printed media may be ejected. Although shown below user interface module in other embodiments the media ejection slot may be on another side of the case or above the user interface module or even within the user interface module in embodiments in which the user interface module includes multiple portions such as a screen and keypad or screen and buttons. In other embodiments media may be retained within printer and the user may open a slot door or portion of case to remove printed media.

Printer may include one or more physical connection interfaces and or one or more wireless connection interfaces WiFi cellular Bluetooth or others discussed in more detail below . Physical connection interfaces may include any full size mini or micro receptacle port or jack for interfaces such as universal serial bus USB including USB 2.0 or USB 3.0 FireWire IEEE 1394 1394b or any other variant Ethernet Serial Parallel ThunderBolt or LightPeak cylindrical connectors such as TRS or other variants or any other type and form of connection interface for transferring data into or out of printer . For example as shown in a printer may include a full size USB receptacle and a mini USB receptacle . Physical connection interfaces may also include slots receptacles or interfaces for flash memory or other storage devices or expansion cards such as PCMCIA cards multi media cards MMC CompactFlash SecureDigital SD MicroSD MiniSD or any other type and form of storage device or card as shown in receptacle of . Although shown on the side of case one or more connection interfaces may be in various locations of the printer and may be together or separate in location.

As shown in printer may include a battery compartment with an access panel . Printer may use user replaceable standard batteries such as AA batteries or 9 volt batteries or may include a battery pack such as a lithium ion Li ion battery nickel cadmium NiCad battery or other type and form of battery or battery pack. In many embodiments batteries may not be user replaceable and accordingly the printer may not include a door or panel for access to a battery compartment. Additionally as can be seen in in many embodiments media cassette or cartridge door may be hinged.

Other embodiments of printers may not include a touch screen user interface module or similar interface reducing size weight and cost. For example referring now to illustrated is an isometric view of such a printer . The printer may have a case which may be made of metal plastic or any combination of metal and plastic or other materials. Although shown with a trapezoidal profile the printer may be in other shapes including a cube or any other regular or irregular profile.

Printer may include battery pack . Battery pack may comprise a compartment and or holder for user replaceable batteries such as AA or 9 volt batteries or may include a Li ion or NiCad battery pack. As shown battery pack may securely connect to a case of printer via one or more latches clips or compression fittings. For example electrical connections from the battery pack to the rest of the printer may be via pins or contacts between pack and case and the battery pack may clip into the case to form a tight physical and electrical connection. This may allow a user to swap battery packs if one is drained and or may also allow for attachment of accessories. For example in one embodiment an accessory pack with an extended battery or accessory pack with additional wired or wireless communications features may be attached in place of battery pack . In another embodiment an accessory pack may be attached in addition to battery pack . For example an accessory pack may be configured to fit in between battery pack and case with top and bottom electrical contacts to pass power from the battery to the printer.

Printer may include a media ejection port or slot through which printed media may exit. Although shown on the front of printer media ejection slot may be on top of the printer or in any other location. Media ejection slot may be open as shown or may include a door or cover. In some embodiments accessories such as media catch trays may be connected to printer and or slot to receive printed media after ejection.

Printer may include a sensor for triggering a cut by a user or a cut sensor . Cut sensor may comprise one or more capacitive sensors one or more buttons one or more optical sensors or any other type and form of sensor for detecting a user interaction to indicate a command to cut printed media. As discussed in more detail below in some embodiments of cutting systems discussed herein printed media may be cut partially through to a backing layer referred to as a kiss cut which may allow for easy removal of printed adhesive labels of variable length. Printed media may also be fully cut referred to as a full cut to eject the media from printer . In some embodiments of printer a full cut mechanism may be positioned internally at some distance from media ejection slot such that after cutting the media in some instances the media may not fall free of the ejection slot due to gravity alone. As a result the printed media may rest partially inside printer . If the user tries to subsequently print another image the media being printed would press against the previously printed and cut media resulting in additional friction bending of the media during printing sliding or skipping resulting in visible distortions or banding within the printed image or other undesirable effects. Accordingly in some embodiments the printer may require the user to interact with a cut sensor to perform a cut command or gesture discussed in more detail below. Thus the user can be in position to manually remove a cut segment of media from media ejection slot eliminating the potential for the above undesirable effects.

In some embodiments cut sensor may further include one or more indicator lights which may be lit responsive to the user interaction with the sensor . For example the cut sensor may comprise three capacitive sensors positioned across the width of the sensor region with corresponding LEDs placed below transparent or partially transparent portions of case . As the user swipes a finger across the three sensors each corresponding LED may light either remaining lit or extinguishing once the user s finger has moved from the corresponding sensor and upon completion of the swipe a cutting mechanism of the printer may fully cut the printed media. The user may manually remove the printed media from slot and the printer is ready to print a subsequent image.

The printer may also have a physically controlled cutting mechanism such as a rolling or sliding cutter. Sensor region may be replaced in such embodiments with a physical handle knob button or similar implement. The user may manually move said physical implement along a slot to move a corresponding physical cutter across the printed media. In still other embodiments other manual cutting mechanisms such as guillotine type manual cutters may be employed. In various embodiments the printer can include a mechanical actuator e.g. a physical handle to control the cutting mechanism a sensor e.g. sensor or both.

Printer may include may include one or more physical connection interfaces and or one or more wireless connection interfaces WiFi cellular Bluetooth or others discussed in more detail below . Physical connection interfaces may include any full size mini or micro receptacle port or jack for interfaces such as USB including USB 2.0 or USB 3.0 FireWire Ethernet Serial Parallel ThunderBolt or LightPeak cylindrical connectors such as TRS or other variants or any other type and form of connection interface for transferring data into or out of printer . Physical connection interfaces may also include slots receptacles or interfaces for flash memory or other storage devices or expansion cards such as PCMCIA MMC CompactFlash SD MicroSD MiniSD or any other type and form of storage device or card. Although shown as a USB type B receptacle on the side of case one or more connection interfaces of various types may be in other locations of the printer and may be together or separate in location.

Printer may include one or more function buttons . Function buttons may be physical buttons capacitive sensors or any other type of button switch or sensor. A button may be a power button for powering the printer on or off or may be a function button for performing various control and or configuration functions. For example in one embodiment discussed in more detail below a printer may include a wireless network interface and a function button may be used to switch the network interface between an independent access point mode and an existing network connected mode. A single function button may also perform multiple functions allowing the user to rotate between multiple status or configuration modes such as off on in access point mode and on in network connected mode. Although shown on the side of case one or more function buttons may be placed anywhere on case and or battery pack .

Printer may include a power receptacle which may be positioned on the case or as part of battery pack as shown. For example battery pack may comprise a rechargeable Li ion battery and may include a DC power input jack . This may allow users to charge a first battery pack while using a second battery pack with the printer which may be particularly helpful in uses where portability is required such as using printer for printing wire labels during construction of a building or using printer for generating name tags at an outdoor reception.

A battery pack may also include a latch for clipping battery pack into case . Latch may comprise a spring latch sliding or locking latch or similar latch or clip to provide a secure connection of battery pack to case . Battery pack may include multiple latches on different sides or in different orientations along the bottom or may include a single latch as shown. In embodiments with the latter the battery pack may include hooks or similar protrusions along the top of the pack to connect with corresponding catches or receptacles of case with latch providing a secure hold on an opposing edge of the battery pack. In other embodiments a battery pack may not include a manually operated latch . In such embodiments the battery pack may securely attach to printer via snap in hooks or internal latches in deflectable or deformable portions of the plastic case via magnets or via other attachment means.

Printers and may be used with various types of media including black and white direct thermal media or full color direct thermal media such as various media manufactured by ZINK Imaging Inc. plain paper media for black and white or inkjet or toner based printing thermal dye sublimation printing or transfer printing or any other type and form of media. Media may be of fixed or predetermined lengths such as sheets of predetermined dimensions or may be on continuous rolls in cassettes or cartridges for variable length printing. In some embodiments media may include an adhesive between a substrate and a disposable backing layer allowing printing of labels or stickers. The media may also include transparent sections for self laminating wire labels or similar uses. The media may be provided in any width. In some embodiments using cassettes or cartridges rolls of media of predetermined width may be used and cut to desired lengths during printing. In other embodiments longitudinal cutting mechanisms may be employed to cut a wide strip of media to a narrower width.

Referring now to illustrated is an isometric view of an embodiment of a printing medium cassette . Cassette may comprise a shell of plastic or other material and may be provided in multiple colors to denote type of media such as adhesive or non adhesive or other cassette types such as cleaning cassettes discussed in more detail below. In some embodiments the cassette may comprise a central shell and two end caps. The shells may be provided in different widths but use the same end caps resulting in reduced manufacturing costs while allowing for multiple widths of media.

Cassette may include a roll of media partially shown protruding from cassette in which may be pushed or pulled by a printer from a media slot of cassette via one or more rollers and or gears. Media may be of a predetermined width such as 1 2 or any other width and may have an adhesive layer and disposable backing or no adhesive layer or backing. Media may be a full color direct thermal or UV printing media as discussed above with a substrate and one or more layers impregnated with a color forming dye.

Cassette may include an alignment protrusion for aligning and centering the cassette when inserted into a printer . Protrusion may prevent rotational torque along the vertical axis of the cassette when media is being pulled from the cassette and or aid in alignment of the media against a print head. Similarly cassette may include one or more additional protrusions or guides for engaging a corresponding slot or guide of a printer to align the cassette when inserted into the printer. Although shown on top in many embodiments protrusions or guides may be on the sides and or bottom of the cassette.

During manufacture adhesive tape or a similar material may be placed on cassette in contact with both the shell of cassette and media for example to prevent media from accidentally being irretrievably rewound into the cassette. As shown in cassette may include a window or opening within the case above the media through which tape may be stuck to media . Users may also view the media through the window to verify type color width and or amount remaining Tape may be removed before use and may be replaced by the user if the media is only partially used. This may not be necessary in all embodiments if the media is only partially used and the cassette removed from printer the media may be left extending far enough from cassette that it cannot easily slip inside eliminating the need to replace tape .

Cassette may include labeling to indicate width of the media and or type of media. For example as discussed above media may be adhesive or non adhesive black and white or color direct thermal media partly or entirely transparent or self laminating be white or pre colored for sublimation printing on a colored background or may be a non printing cartridge including a cleaning medium discussed in more detail below and may be provided in different widths. Cassette may also be colored to indicate media type such as blue for a cleaning cassette and green for a direct thermal color cassette or any other color or combination of colors.

For example shown in are isometric views of additional embodiments of the printing medium cassette . shows a cassette with media. As shown and as discussed above the center section of the case may be specific to the media while the end caps may be identical for all cassettes. shows a cleaning cassette which may include a cleaning medium . Cleaning medium may comprise an abrasive absorptive microfiber or similar material for removing particles dirt wax or other buildup from a print head. In some embodiments a printing medium may include a substrate with a rough coating on a reverse side of the printing surface. This may be an artifact of manufacture of the substrate or may be added to increase stiffness of the substrate and or prevent warping due to humidity or moisture. In some embodiments the rough coating may increase a coefficient of friction of the surface providing better traction during motion of the print media. Such a substrate may also be used as an abrasive cleaning material with cleaning cassettes including rolls of the media substrate rolled in a reverse direction such that what is normally the non printing side on the inner surface of the roll is instead on the outer surface of the roll. Such cleaning media may include the substrate without color forming dye layers for example to reduce cost.

Referring back to to encourage users to grip the cassette in a proper position for insertion into and or removal from printer a cassette may include a textured grip which may be on one or multiple sides of cassette . For example as shown in and as discussed above a cassette may include a plurality of textured grips . Textured grip s may comprise ridges bumps indentations valleys notches or other features and or may comprise a high friction material such as rubber. In one embodiment a textured grip may comprise one or more cutouts in a shell of cassette which may reduce manufacturing costs.

To control brakes within the cassette that prevent media from moving in or out of the cassette unintentionally a cassette may include an opening through which a brake lever discussed in more detail below may be released. Opening may be near an edge or end cap of cassette as shown in . As discussed above a cassette may comprise a center shell portion which may be varied depending on media width and or type and end caps that may be common to all types of cassettes. Accordingly the position of opening may be different depending on the width of the cartridge. For example referring to illustrated is a diagram of front views of three embodiments of printing medium cassettes showing different shell widths and different offsets of opening . A single shell size may be used for multiple media widths. For example a first shell with a width of may also be used for or media a second shell with a width of 1 may also be used for media a third shell with a width of 2 may also be used for 1.5 media etc. As shown with a narrow shell as in the top embodiment opening is at a first narrow position with a medium shell opening is at a second position and with a wide shell opening is at a third wide position.

Some printers may accommodate these multiple positions of opening by providing several corresponding levers at different positions corresponding to the varied positions of opening with different width cassettes . For example a printer may have three levers which may be simultaneously moved to engage a corresponding brake lever through an opening of an inserted cassette regardless of which cassette is used. As these levers are of a length to extend into opening to engage the brake lever wider shells may include false openings and so as to provide a clear space for inner levers to move freely when wider cassettes are inserted into the printer.

Cassette may include an identification module . Identification module may comprise a storage device such as flash memory an EEPROM or other non volatile memory or any other type of hardware for storing an identification signal identifying the cassette . Although shown with electrical contacts identification module may comprise a radio frequency identification RFID tag or similar near field communication device.

Identification module may be used by printer to automatically identify an inserted cartridge. For example data stored in identification module may include 

Gear may be engaged by brake lever which may be manipulated by a corresponding lever of printer via an opening as discussed above. As shown in and in some embodiments brake lever may include a broadened or offset tip. This may prevent the lever of printer from being accidentally positioned beneath brake lever during insertion of cassette into the printer preventing disengagement of the brake against gear . Brake lever may be connected to a spring as shown to engage the brake when the lever of printer is released or when a cassette is removed from the printer preventing extension or retraction of media .

Cassette may include a cleaning pad . Cleaning pad may comprise an abrasive material absorptive material microfiber material felt fabric or similar material for wiping foreign materials from the surface of media prior to the media being moved into position beneath a print head of the printer. Cleaning pad may be held under pressure against media may be connected to a helical spring or leaf spring to hold the pad against media or otherwise positioned to engage media . In some embodiments cleaning pad may prevent entry of dust into cassette while in other embodiments cassette may have other openings such as opening that allow dust to enter. Accordingly cleaning pad may instead prevent exit of dust from cassette into the body of a printer or from being carried by media to a print head where it may disrupt printing or cause artifacts.

As shown in and the axis of the spool of media may be in contact with spring . As media is removed from the cassette the diameter of the spool of remaining media is reduced. If the axis of the spool remains in the same position in the center of cassette the media may be forced to bend at the media exit slot of the cassette increasing friction and back tension on the media during printing and potentially causing creasing and visible artifacts in prints. Accordingly to ensure that media exits in a direction tangent to the spool of remaining media the axis of the spool may be elevated by a spring and potentially a corresponding spring symmetrically positioned against the axis on the opposing side of the spool of media . Shown in is a side view of an outer shell component of the embodiment of a printing medium cassette of with the spool of media removed for clarity. As discussed above media may be wound around a spool of metal plastic or any similar material which may have a protrusion to sit within slot in each end cap of cassette . Spring may be positioned to press against the protrusion raising the axis of the media spool as media is used.

For example referring to illustrated is a diagram illustrating dynamic variation of an axis of a printing medium spool. As shown on the left when a spool of media is full spring may be compressed and the media may exit the cassette in a tangent line dotted line to the spool. Similarly as shown on the right as the media is used and the diameter of the spool of remaining media is reduced spring may extend raising the axis of the spool such that the media may still exit the cassette along the same tangent line to the spool. This reduces or eliminates sharp bends in the media and reduces tension and friction that may cause visible artifacts in printing.

In some instances media may be wound off center around the central portion of a spindle resulting in lateral forces on the media during printing as the media rubs against a wall of the cassette. Accordingly in some embodiments the central portion may be surrounded by a floating or sliding sleeve . Sleeve may comprise a circular element with an interior diameter slightly larger than central portion and a width of less than central portion . Sleeve may comprise one or more internal protrusions which may be mated with a corresponding one or more external notches on central portion such that the sleeve may rotate with central portion and end caps but may freely slide laterally across central portion to the extent of the notch . During manufacture the media may be wound around sleeve and then installed on central portion . During use the media and sleeve may slide laterally within cassette and or may be pushed away from walls of the cassette reducing or eliminating lateral forces on the media during printing that may cause visible errors. Although the media may not remain centered within the cassette during printing various printing re alignment methods discussed in more detail herein may be employed to ensure that printed images are centered on the media.

As media may be wound around sleeve the central portion does not necessarily need a substantial body to support the media and may comprise a space frame or space structure rather than a solid surface. Accordingly in another embodiment not illustrated the central portion and or end caps may comprise one or more holes or slots to reduce weight and material requirements or may be formed of one or more curved members to support sleeve .

As noted in some embodiments the printers are multicolor direct thermal printers and or may utilize continuous roll cassettes of printing media . As used herein the terms printing medium and direct thermal imaging member are used interchangeably. In embodiments utilizing multicolor direct thermal printers the printing medium may comprise a substrate and one or more color forming layers each impregnated with a color forming dye said dyes having various activation times and temperatures.

Direct thermal imaging is a technique in which a substrate bearing at least one color forming layer which is typically initially colorless is heated by contact with a thermal printing head to form an image. In direct thermal imaging there is no need for ink toner or thermal transfer ribbon. Rather the chemistry required to form an image is present in the imaging member itself.

In some embodiments the direct thermal imaging member i.e. printing media comprises three color forming layers each affording one of the subtractive primary colors and is designed to be printed with a single thermal printing head. The topmost relative to substrate in color forming layer develops color in a relatively short period of time when the surface of the imaging member is heated to a relatively high temperature the intermediate relative to topmost and lowest color forming layers color forming layer develops color in an intermediate length of time when the surface of the imaging member is heated to an intermediate temperature and the lowest closest to substrate in color forming layer develops color in a relatively long period of time when the surface of the imaging member is heated to a relatively low temperature. Separating the color forming layers are thermally insulating layers whose thickness thermal conductivity and heat capacity are selected so that temperatures reached within the color forming layers may be controlled to provide the desired color by appropriate choices of heating conditions of the surface of the imaging member.

The composition of the thermally insulating layers is chosen so as neither to compromise the chemistry responsible for formation of color in the color forming layers nor to degrade the stability of the final image. Each color forming layer typically comprises a dye precursor that is colorless in the crystalline form but colored in an amorphous form. Materials such as thermal solvents developers or other additives may be incorporated into the color forming layer to adjust the temperature at which color is formed the degree of coloration that is achieved and or the stability of the media and print.

Each color forming layer can change color e.g. from initially colorless to colored where it is heated to a particular temperature referred to herein as its activating temperature.

Any order of the colors of the color forming layers can be chosen. One preferred color order is as described above. Another preferred order is one in which the three color forming layers and provide yellow magenta and cyan respectively.

All the layers disposed on the substrate are substantially colorless and transparent before color formation. When the substrate is reflective e.g. white the colored image formed on imaging member is viewed through the overcoating or overcoatings and against the reflecting background provided by the substrate . The transparency of the layers disposed on the substrate ensures that combinations of the colors printed in each of the color forming layers may be viewed.

Discussions of representative multicolor direct thermal printing media and the dyes used in such media are provided in the following commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 807 607 7 829 497 7 704 667 7 176 161 7 504 360 6 951 952 7 282 317 7 279 264 7 008 759 7 282 317 6 906 735 6 801 233 6 906 735 7 166 558 7 635 660 7 504 360 and the published U.S. Patent Application No. US 2010 087316 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Referring to and in some embodiments the printing media comprises an overcoating having a single layer or overcoatings and having two layers that protect the surface of the imaging member and or provide lubrication during the printing process. In some embodiments the overcoating or overcoatings and of the printing media described herein can be chosen from formulations I II and III described below 

Exemplary Overcoating I A Single Overcoat Layer Comprising an Aqueous Dispersible Polyisocyanate Component and One or More Reactive Hydroxyl and or Amino Functional Components

In some embodiments the printing media described herein comprises a single overcoating layer that includes a polyisocyanate and one or more reactive hydroxyl and or amino functional components. Overcoating compositions of this type are designed to adhere to the printing media and provide the printing media with a protective layer and a contact point that does not stick degrade or deform upon contact with the high temperature print head of any of the thermal printers described herein.

In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate includes a reactive hydroxyl functional latex. In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate includes a reactive amino functional component. In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate includes both a reactive hydroxyl functional latex and a reactive amino functional component. Such overcoating layers also include lubricating components to reduce the friction between the media and the thermal print head during printing. Overcoating layers such as these provide water resistance protection from handling e.g. abrasion resistance and skin oil resistance and allow the media to withstand the high temperatures of thermal printing. In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate prevents the media from deforming or sticking to a thermal print head upon exposure to heat friction humidity and pressure. In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate provides increased image stabilities.

The overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate can be applied as a single layer on top of the printing media. The polyisocyanate along with other components can be pot blended together prior to being applied to the printing medium. Alternatively the polyisocyanate along with other components can be applied separately to the media as in line blend streams during manufacture. In one embodiment the polyisocyanate is introduced into the coating fluid as an in line blend stream just before the layer is applied to the substrate in the coating process. The in line blend approach is particularly useful when the polyisocyanate and other components such as a hydroxyl functional latex or an amino functional component are highly reactive such that unwanted premature cross linking reactions would occur causing coating defects if they were pot blended together in the coating process. In some embodiments the overcoating layer comprising a polyisocyanate requires approximately 24 to 72 hours to cure after being coated onto the printing media.

Representative examples A and B of a single overcoating layer I comprising a polyisocyanate are shown below in Table 1.

In some embodiments the media is coated with a two layer overcoating system and comprising a first layer having a polyisocyanate along with one or more reactive hydroxyl functional latex components and a second layer comprising a latex binder and a cross linker activator. The two overcoating layers are the top most layers in the multilayer imaging member. In one embodiment the second overcoating layer containing the activator is positioned above the first polyisocyanate containing overcoating layer e.g. as a separate layer above the first overcoating layer . The second overcoating layer may in some embodiments be referred to as a top coat while the first layer may be referred to as an overcoat. In some embodiments the second layer or top coat may contain a latex binder a cross linker activator e.g. Bacote 20 one or more meltable lubricants and other coating additives. In particular in many embodiments Bacote 20 or similar crosslinker activators in the top coat may significantly increase the speed of polyisocyanate crosslinking reactions in the overcoat layer. In some embodiments the order of the two overcoating layers may be reversed with the polyisocyanate containing layer being the topmost layer.

This two layer overcoating system and improves the media manufacturing process by reducing the time required for the overcoating system to cure i.e. cross link . As such the two layer overcoating system prevents disruptions in the continuous process of coating the media and minimizes defects in the coated media. The two layer overcoating system also reduces the tackiness of the printing media during the period of time after the coating is complete to when the curing is complete. In particular the two layer overcoating system once fully cured provides a surface of the media that does not stick to the thermal print head degrade or deform under printing conditions that include elevated temperatures and high humidity.

The components of each layer or can be pot blended before each layer is coated onto the media. Alternatively the components of each layer can be applied by an in line blend process directly to the media as separate fluid streams. In one embodiment the polyisocyanate is introduced into the coating fluid as an in line blend stream just before the layer containing it is applied to the substrate in the coating process. In some embodiments the two layer overcoating system requires approximately 24 to 48 hours to cure.

Representative examples C E of the second layer or topcoat of the two layer overcoating system II containing the cross linker activator are shown below in Table 2. Representative examples F and G of the first layer of the two layer overcoating system II are shown below in Table 3.

In some embodiments the printing media includes an overcoating III layer that is formulated to be UV curable. UV curable overcoating provides excellent water resistance and also helps provide a media surface that does not stick to the thermal print head degrade or deform under printing conditions that include elevated temperatures and high humidity.

In some embodiments the overcoating layer is formulated to be UV curable by adding UV curable monomers or oligomers to the overcoating and subsequently exposing the overcoating to UV light. The UV curable monomers or oligomers may further include photoinitiators lubricants and surfactants well known to the skilled artisan. The UV cured overcoating can be formulated from 100 solids or a solvent based gravure coating or as a solvent slot coating that cures upon exposure to UV light. The UV cured overcoating layer provides excellent water resistance thermal printing performance and gloss characteristics. The UV curable overcoating layer can be cured with an H bulb on a Fusion UV system.

Referring now to illustrated are block diagrams of embodiments of printers . As shown a printer may lack one or more features present in printer such as a multi touch capacitive input device a display an editing application and file storage. These features may be fulfilled by other computing devices such as smart phones or tablet computers. For example a user may download an editing application for their tablet computer which may communicate with a printer to print images wirelessly or via a wired connection or other means.

A printer may include a processor . Processor may be any type and form of processor or microprocessor such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. the ARM processor and Tegra system on a chip SoC manufactured by Nvidia of Santa Clara Calif. those manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. or Samsung Electronics of Korea such as the A4 A5 or A5X SoC those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. such as the POWER7 processor or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. or any other processor capable of operating as described herein. The processor may utilize instruction level parallelism thread level parallelism different levels of cache and multi core processors. An example of a multi core processor is the AMD Phenom IIX2 or Intel Core i5 or Core i7. Processor may comprise logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from memory.

The printer may include memory . Memory may comprise one or more storage devices including random access memory for execution of processes or non volatile storage for retaining applications data operating systems or other elements. For example memory may include one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks or flash memory elements for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs. Memory may include one or more hard disk drives HDD optical drives including CD drives DVD drives or Blu Ray drives solid state drives SSD USB flash drives or any other device suitable for storing data. Memory or a portion of memory may be non volatile mutable or read only. Memory may be internal or external to the printer. For example in one embodiment of the latter memory may comprise a flash memory storage device such as an SD card inserted into a card reader of the printer. Memory may further include remote storage devices that connect to the printer via a network interface such as the Remote Disk for the MacBook Air provided by Apple Inc. or other network storage devices. Memory or a portion of memory may also be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by processor . For example such memory or a portion of memory may be volatile and faster than storage memory. Memory may comprise Dynamic random access memory DRAM or any variants including static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Single Data Rate Synchronous DRAM SDR SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Extreme Data Rate DRAM XDR DRAM . Memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein.

The printer may include a power supply . Power supply may comprise any type and form of power supply including one or more batteries or battery packs including user replaceable batteries and non user replaceable batteries. As discussed above batteries may be accessible via a compartment or access panel of the printer may be in a separate package that may be clipped on or connected to the printer or may be installed within the printer in a non user replaceable manner. The power supply may comprise an alternating current or direct current power supply such as a switched mode power supply linear power supply or other power supply. In some embodiments power supply may include both batteries and an AC or DC power supply allowing for both portable use and long term use with external power as well as recharging of batteries. The power supply may supply power to computing elements such as processor and memory and display devices as well as printing elements such as a print head and media transport or a print engine . The printer may include multiple power supplies for redundancy and or efficiency. For example a low power supply may be used to power low power computing elements and a high power supply may be used to power heaters and mechanical transport elements.

The printer may include a print engine . Print engine may comprise one or more processors integrated circuits signal processors or other hardware or logic elements for controlling a print head and or transport elements of a printer. For example the print engine may include a processor for controlling pulses e.g. electrical pulses transmitted to resistive heaters of a thermal print head or for advancing media. The print engine may further include graphics processors for performing various processing steps on an image to be printed including stretching dithering anti aliasing color correction corrections to contrast or brightness stitching or other such processes. For example due to the expense and difficulty of creating large format thermal print heads the printer may include multiple thermal print heads arranged in an overlapping configuration to print across media that is wider than a single print head. Print engine may divide images for printing by each print head as well as applying stitching techniques to reduce or eliminate visible artifacts or banding in the stitched or overlap area. Print engine may also control one or more mechanical portions of the printer such as transport motors tension motors cutters ejection mechanisms or other such elements. Although shown separate from processor in many embodiments print engine may comprise functions and logic executed by processor which may reduce expenses at the cost of some efficiency or processing speed.

In some embodiments a print engine may include a print head controller a head pressure controller a transport controller and or a cutter controller . Controllers may comprise hardware software executed by a processor of print engine or a combination of hardware and software. For example controllers may comprise subroutines services threads or modules executed by print engine . In some embodiments a print engine may further comprise a media sensor .

In some embodiments a print head controller may comprise logic for controlling one or more print heads or elements of one or more print heads such as resistive elements of a thermal printer. Print head controller may comprise functionality for stitching images between a plurality of print head elements controlling pre heating functions triggering pulses for a thermal printer adjusting position density or other features of an image during printing or performing other calculations and functions for printing an image.

A head pressure controller may comprise logic for controlling a motor or other element for adjusting pressure of a print head against a platen during printing. As discussed in more detail herein in many embodiments of printers that may utilize different widths of media it may be desirable to adjust pressure of the head against the platen to provide full width printing while preventing printing on the platen roller itself.

A transport controller may comprise logic for adjusting a transport to advance and or retract media. For example transport controller may control rollers to advance media for cutting and then retract the media to allow printing across the cut to provide full bleed images as discussed in more detail herein. In some embodiments transport controller may track the rotational position of a platen roller. For example the platen roller may not be uniform or may have defects along its surface due to manufacturing tolerances. The transport controller may monitor the position of the platen such as via a sensor or by monitoring rotation of a gear connected to the platen directly or via a chain of gears in an integer relationship such that rotation of the gear may directly correlate to a rotational position of the platen. The transport controller may notify the print head controller and or head pressure controller that a platen or other transport defect will cause a potential print defect at an identified time or printing location such that controllers may compensate.

A cutter controller may comprise logic for controlling one or more cutters or motors connected to cutting levers including a kiss cutter or full cutter. The cutter controller may communicate with the transport controller to ensure proper positioning of media for cutting and for indicating a cut is complete such that the media may be advanced or retracted.

Print engine and or printer may include a media sensor . Media sensor may comprise an optical sensor physical sensor or any other type and form of sensor for detecting media and or a pattern imprinted on media for tracking purposes and discussed in more detail below. In many embodiments media sensor may be positioned underneath media or on a side opposite that of a print head or printing surface of media . Media sensor may be used to identify entry of media into the printing apparatus and or may be used to identify markers indicating that the end of the roll of media in the cartridge or cassette is approaching such as double lines lines in a different color patterns or other indicators.

The printer may include one or more network interfaces . Network interfaces may include without limitation telephone lines Ethernet interfaces to a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Ethernet over SONET ADSL VDSL BPON GPON fiber optical including FiOS wireless connections e.g. radio frequency cellular BlueTooth or some combination of any or all of the above or other interfaces such as ThunderBolt FireWire or serial or parallel interfaces of any type. Connections can be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. TCP IP ARCNET SONET SDH Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IEEE 802.11a b g n ac CDMA GSM WiMax and direct asynchronous connections . A network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card ExpressCard network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter cellular modem WiFi access point or wireless network interface or any other device suitable for interfacing the printer to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein. Network interface may execute a network stack providing communications via one or more OSI layers and may perform various processing functions including compression and decompression encryption and decryption acceleration tunneling caching buffering multiplexing connection pooling or any other type and form of communications processing.

Multiple network interfaces may be bridged. For example a printer may include a wired interface to a switch or router and a wireless interface acting as a WiFi access point and may bridge between the interfaces to provide network access to other computing devices. In other embodiments network interfaces may not be bridged. For example a printer may include a first network interface providing a WiFi access point through which a computing device may connect to provide configuration commands to the printer. The configuration commands may cause the printer to reconfigure a second network interface to join an existing wireless network to serve as a network printer. This may allow for easy configuration of a headless printer or printer without a display or input device such as a printer . In a similar embodiment the printer may include one wireless network interface which may be configured as a WiFi access point. The user may connect via a computing device to the printer and provide configuration commands to the printer. The printer may then reconfigure the wireless network interface to join an existing wireless network. As discussed above the printer may include a button or control to reset the wireless network interface or return the printer to an access point mode.

The printer may also include one or more communications interfaces . Communication interface may include any type of wired or wireless communication interface for direct connection to a computing device such as a serial or parallel connection a USB interface FireWire interface ThunderBolt interface or any other type and form of connection interface for transferring data between the printer and a computing device. For example the printer may connect to a desktop computer via a USB cable and may appear to applications and the operating system of the desktop computer as a USB printing device.

The printer may include a media cutter which may comprise one or more cutters including full cutters or kiss cutters as discussed above. A cutter may include a rotary cutter scissors or guillotine cutter or any other type and form of cutter or cutting mechanism. A cutter may be configured to cut laterally across media or may be configured to cut longitudinally along media. A single cutter may be configured to cut to a first depth in the media to perform a kiss cut and configured to cut to a second depth through the media to perform a full cut or kiss cutting and full cutting may be provided by separate cutters .

The printer may include a display such as an LCD display LED or OLED display eInk display or any other type and form of display. Display may be coupled with an input device such as a multi touch capacitive LCD touch screen. In other embodiments the printer may connect to an external display such as an external CRT or LCD screen or micro or pico projector or any other type of display. Input device may include one or more buttons capacitive sensors resistive or capacitive touch screens keypads or keyboards joysticks stylus or pen input devices trackballs pointers directional buttons or any combinations of these or other input devices. In some embodiments the printer may connect to an external input device such as a BlueTooth or USB keyboard. The printer may also include a speaker for providing audio feedback such as clicks for a virtual keyboard beeping or other alert noises or similar sounds.

The processor of a printer may execute one or more applications services servers daemons routines subroutines or other executable logic or code. For example processor may execute an operating system . Operating system may comprise an operating system such as the iOS system provided by Apple Inc. Android operating system provided by Google Inc. the Windows Mobile or Windows Phone operating systems provided by Microsoft or one of the variants of Embedded Linux or Linux or any other type and form of embedded real time proprietary open source mobile or other operating system for controlling access to resources and scheduling tasks.

The printer may execute a print server . Print server may be an application service server or other executable logic for receiving printing commands and data files including text and or images from clients such as desktop computers tablet computers laptop computers and smart phones. Print server may support any type and form of printing protocol including internet printing protocol line printer daemon protocol NetWare NetBIOS NetBEUI JetDirect or any other type of protocol. Print server may include a buffer or storage for storing images or files for printing and may include queuing or spooling functionality.

The printer may execute a configuration interface . Configuration interface may comprise an application server service or other executable logic for receiving configuration information from a user. For example configuration interface may include a web server and a configuration page provided by the web server. A user may connect a computing device to a WiFi access point provided by network interface and may direct a browser to open the configuration page. The user may then provide configuration commands such as printing default settings or commands to join a network provided by an external wireless router.

The printer may execute an editing application . Editing application discussed in more detail below may comprise an application allowing WYSIWYG generation and editing of images or labels for printing and saving and retrieval of images and or elements to a portion of memory such as file storage . Editing application may provide templates or pre printed images and or may allow for purchase of such elements templates and images from an online store.

As discussed above some printers such as printer may include a user interface and display. On such printers a user may directly select a wireless configuration screen or menu and request the printer to join a network provided by a wireless router. However on other printers such as printer that do not include a display the user may not be able to directly select existing networks or enter passwords if required. Accordingly in some embodiments of the latter a wireless network interface of the printer may provide a wireless access point. The user may connect to the printer s wireless network and select another existing network provided by another device or router for the printer to join. The printer may reconfigure the wireless network interface or configure a second wireless network interface and join the selected network allowing network devices to print via the printer.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates an embodiment of configuration of a printer to join an existing wireless network. A printer including a wireless network interface may have the network interface set to provide a WiFi access point. The access point may require a password to connect or may be an open access point. At step a device such as a tablet computer may connect to the network provided by the network interface . As discussed above the user may launch a web browser or other application to view a configuration page of the printer . The user may provide configuration details such as network name of a network provided by a WiFi access point or external router WEP WPA or other network password login credentials or a username and password domain or workgroup name IP address or any other type and form of configuration information.

At step the printer may configure the wireless network interface to join the network provided by the WiFi access point . In embodiments in which the printer has a single wireless network interface the printer may reconfigure the interface to join the network provided by access point as a client. This can disconnect device from the network provided by the wireless network interface . In other embodiments the printer may have multiple wireless network interfaces and may configure a second network interface to join the WiFi access point while the first remains in an access point mode. The second interface may be bridged to the first allowing the user to access the network provided by the WiFi access point without having to reconfigure their device . In a similar embodiment the user may connect a computing device to the printer via a communication interface such as USB to configure the wireless network interface . Once configured and joined to the network of WiFi access point the printer may bridge the communication interface and network interface and provide wireless communications for the computing device of the user. In other embodiments at step the user may connect their device to the WiFi access point and print via the wireless network to the printer . Similarly other devices and may also print via the wireless network to printer .

Referring first to auto eject mechanism illustrated in are side views of an embodiment of an automatic ejection mechanism in a printing position and an ejection position respectively. The ejection mechanism may include a roller and a platen . Roller may comprise a high friction material or material with a higher coefficient of friction than smooth plastic such as rubber or a rubberized material having a static frictional coefficient greater than 0.5. Different materials may also be employed such that roller may comprise a material or combination of materials with a static frictional coefficient greater than or less than 0.5. Platen may be a flat shelf roller skid or slide plate or any similar surface that the media may freely slide against such as a non rotating platen. In many embodiments platen may have a low coefficient of friction so as to not resist advancement of media such as a static frictional coefficient less than 0.5 less than 0.2 or any other such value.

As discussed above during printing and depending on the length of the image to be printed media may be advanced past the print head and through the automatic ejection mechanism . For example the distance between the print head and ejection mechanism may be three inches in one embodiment. If an image is longer than three inches then even if the media is cut immediately prior to printing and printing begins at the cut the media will be between roller and platen during printing of part of the image. If roller and platen are both contacting the media then the added friction may create a back pressure or tension on the media even with freely rotating rollers. This friction may result in stuttering jerking or slipping of the media resulting in visible artifacts or banding during printing.

Accordingly to avoid such artifacts roller may have a non circular or D shaped profile as shown and may be rotated to the position illustrated in creating a space between roller and platen such that media is not in contact with the roller and platen simultaneously. To eject the media after printing is complete and the media has been cut roller may be rotated to the position shown in to engage media against platen . The roller may continue being rotated to advance the media . As the roller has a non circular profile such advancement of the media may be in stages with the media being advanced a distance roughly equal to the circumference or length of the circular portion of roller .

In some printers the print head may be significantly smaller than the media and may be mechanically moved across the media to print each line. For example many inkjet printers move an inkjet cartridge across a page of media advancing the media line by line to print an image. Such implementations allow for many different widths of media but add expense and suffer from reduced printing speed and potential mechanical problems. In other printers the print head may be equal in size to the media. For example a direct thermal printer for a cash register may have a width equal to a roll of thermal media to be printed. Such implementations may be cheap and efficient but require fixed width media reducing flexibility of use.

Problems appear when a wide print head is used with narrow media. Specifically an ink print head such as an inkjet or dot matrix printer may deposit ink on a platen roller beyond the bounds of the narrow media to be printed on if the travel of the print head is not carefully controlled. Such ink may transfer from the roller to wider media when inserted into the printer resulting in smudging. Similarly with a stationary print head such as in thermal printer the print head may transfer heat to the platen roller degrading the rubber material and or reducing efficiency of thermal transfer.

In some embodiments of printers a print head such as a thermal print head may be bowed or have a curvature in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the media to be printed. This may be due to the method of manufacture or installation of the print head. By dynamically adjusting the pressure of a deflectable platen roller against the print head the bow may be used to eliminate contact between the print head and roller at locations beyond the width of media.

For example are diagrams of embodiments of curved or bowed print heads under low head pressure high head pressure and variable head pressure respectively viewed from a position in the direction of travel of media i.e. viewing the media end on . The platen may comprise a deflectable or compressible material such as rubber and the print head may comprise a thermal print head or any other type of print head that directly contacts the print media. As shown in a bowed print head may be positioned over a platen with media between the print head and platen . At low head pressure the platen may not be deflected a significant amount. Accordingly the bow will result in sections of the print head beyond the width of media not being in contact with the platen . However with wide media and low head pressure the print head may not fully contact the media resulting in density variation of the printed image across the media .

Conversely at high head pressure as shown in the platen may be significantly deflected. With wide media the print head can fully contact the media resulting in a consistent image. However with narrow media the print head may contact platen resulting in the problems discussed above.

Accordingly variable head pressure may be applied as in to achieve the best of both situations. With narrow media head pressure may be reduced to reduce deflection of the platen resulting in the print head bowing away from the platen beyond the width of the media . With wider media head pressure may be increased to increase deflection of the platen forcing the media into full contact with the print head . In some embodiments the pressure may be varied to provide a constant pressure per unit width of media . For example the pressure may be x for half inch media 2x for one inch media and 4x for two inch media resulting in a constant x half inch pressure regardless of media width. In other embodiments the pressure may be varied in geometric or non linear means for example due to a platen that increasingly resists deflection as pressure is applied.

In some embodiments head pressure may be adjusted via a screw attached to the head and threaded through a hole on a supporting frame or conversely attached to a frame and in contact with the head. The screw may be rotated to vary the bow of the print head. The screw may be adjusted via a motor in some embodiments. In other embodiments the screw position may be fixed or calibrated during manufacture and other means may be used for variable head pressure. For example in one embodiment the print head may be moved via one or more levers and or motors against a fixed platen and or deformable platen having a fixed axis or fulcrum. In another embodiment the print head may be fixed to the frame and an axis or fulcrum of the platen may be adjusted to provide variable pressure on media between the platen and the print head. For example the platen may comprise a platen roller and the axis of the roller may be adjusted by one or more levers supporting the axis. The levers may be moved by a motor to vary the position of the platen roller moving the roller towards the head to increase pressure or away to decrease pressure. In other embodiments the platen may comprise a flat or bent plate such as a spring steel plate. The fulcrum of the plate or a spring support for the plate may be moved via a lever such that the plate presses harder or softer against media and the print head. In some embodiments the pressure may vary in a linear relationship to the position of the axis or fulcrum of the platen while in other embodiments the pressure may vary in a geometric or fashion such as a platen that increasingly resists deformation as it is deflected e.g. with a force of F kxwith k depending on the material of the platen and x representing the change in position of the platen or any other such relationship .

As discussed above many types of media may include a non adhesive backing. For example such media may be used for photos cards framed pictures coupons receipts or other uses where an adhesive is either not desirable or is irrelevant. For such uses a printer may employ a full cutter to be able to cut a continuous spool of media to any length according to the printed image. In other uses the media may include an adhesive such as for stickers labels or similar uses. During manufacture a thin backing may be applied to the media such as a paper layer to cover the adhesive. A user may peel the backing from the media exposing the adhesive and allowing the media to be fixed to a surface. To aid in peeling the media as well as to perform full bleed printing as discussed herein the printer may include a kiss cutter that may cut through the media to the depth of the backing but leaving the backing uncut or partially uncut. The resulting tab may be used to peel off the backing to expose the adhesive.

For example shown in is a diagram of an embodiment of kiss cutting and full cutting of a printing medium . A kiss cutter may be fixed to cut partly through a segment of media held against a platen while a full cutter may be allowed to cut fully through the media . Similarly shown in is an isometric view of an embodiment of a cutting mechanism of a printer. Although cutters shown in are guillotine or partial scissor cutters different types of cutters may be used including rotary cutters or any other type and form of cutter. Each cutter may be connected to a cutter spring configured to return the cutter to an open position when cutting lever pressure is released.

As shown in in one embodiment of a cutting mechanism a motor may rotate a cam gear . The motor may include a worm gear or similar gear to provide a high torque force on cutters via cutting levers or . In one embodiment as shown one cutting lever may attach to a track on top of cam gear while another cutting lever may attach to a track on the bottom of cam gear . Thus the cam gear may include multiple tracks for followers of levers configured to allow the cam gear to be moved into a default non cutting position a first kiss cutting position and a second full cutting position. For example the cam gear may be moved clockwise from a neutral position to engage one lever and counter clockwise from the neutral position to engage the other lever.

As discussed above printing may be referred to as full bleed if a printed image extends to the edge of the resulting media. Many printers may be unable to print full bleed images for example because of a need to avoid spilling ink onto a platen roller or avoid applying heat to the edges of media that may cause them to curl. Kiss cutting and or full cutting may be used to achieve full bleed printing. For example as shown in the left hand diagram of an image may be printed on media with unprinted area white space around the printed area . Cuts may be made within the print area to achieve a full bleed image albeit one narrower than the original width of media . The cuts may be full cuts or may be kiss cuts and the center printed section may be peeled out or removed by the user. Longitudinal kiss cuts may be cut in the media during manufacture or cut via rolling cutters while advancing the media with lateral cuts performed during printing. This may allow for dynamic variation of the length of printed media while still providing full bleed printing.

Other printers may not need additional lateral space for a print area . For example in some embodiments of direct thermal printers the print head may extend past the media and be able to print to the edge and or slightly beyond the edge of the media providing full bleed printing across the width of the media. Although this may result in heat being transferred from the print head to a platen roller undesirable effects may be mitigated through variable head pressure as discussed above. However due to the need for the print head to be in position above the media when printing is started the printer cannot directly create an image that extends to the cut edge of the media because the print head would have to start printing before the media reaches the print head the media could skip or jam against the lowered print head . Accordingly in some embodiments kiss cutting and full cutting of the media may be used to allow full bleed printing in a longitudinal direction.

For example referring first to illustrated is a diagram of media illustrating an embodiment of full bleed printing via kiss cuts. As shown media may pass under a print head for printing a first image and second image and a kiss cutter which may make kiss cuts to allow full bleed printing. Each image may be slightly stretched or have a portion of the image extended or each image may be slightly cropped during cutting. This may reduce visual distortions in the edges of the printed image at the expense of losing a small strip of the image at each longitudinal end.

As shown the media may have a portion that is beyond the print head in a start position. Depending on the cutter design the printer may begin printing the first image and may perform the first kiss cut during printing. However in many embodiments the media must be stopped prior to cutting or the cutting blade may cause a stutter or jerk in the print resulting in a visual artifact or band. The media may be advanced to the position for cutting held still while the cut is performed and then advanced to print the rest of the image but this may also result in visual artifacts as the speed of the media past the print head may not be constant.

Accordingly it may be desirable to perform the first cut prior to printing. For example the printer may advance the media such that a start point on the media is beneath the kiss cutter . The cutter may perform the kiss cut and the media may be retracted or rewound to return the start point to the print head or slightly beyond the print head. The printer may then print the entire first image . After printing the media may be advanced such that the kiss cutter may perform cut . To print a second image the media may be advanced again to perform cut and then rewound to allow printing of second image . After printing each full bleed image may be peeled from a backing of the media. To ensure proper advancement and retraction during manufacture and calibration of the printer the distance between a cutter and the print head may be measured and recorded such that the printer may advance and retract the media properly.

Thus as shown in kiss cuts may be used for full bleed printing when printing several images in series. This may be useful when printing labels or stickers where multiple images will be printed. However it may not always be desired to print multiple images. Accordingly a full cut may be used in place of cut releasing first image and creating a tab for full bleed printing of the next image. are diagrams of media illustrating an embodiment of full bleed printing via full cuts. As shown in the process for printing a first image may be the same as the process illustrated in . The media may be advanced and a first kiss cut performed. The media may be retracted to a starting position before the kiss cut and the first image may be printed. After printing the media may be advanced such that the end of the image is just before the full cutter and the media may be cut with a full cut and ejected from the printer. To print a subsequent image as shown in the process may repeat. The tab beyond the first kiss cut blank in and C may include the bleed from the first image left by the full cut in . Accordingly waste of media may be reduced while still enabling full bleed printing.

At step the media may be rewound or retracted so that the print head is positioned at a point before the kiss cut. This will allow printing of the image to begin prior to the kiss cut and overlap the kiss cut ensuring full bleed printing. The retraction distance may be greater than the distance between the kiss cutter and the print head. In many embodiments a portion of the media may still be under the print head after retraction allowing printing without concern about binding or catching against the print head or platen.

At step the printer may print the image. The image may be of any length and may be dynamically adjusted. For example as discussed in more detail below an image may have dimensions of width a and length b defining an aspect ratio of a b. Responsive to the width a of media in a cassette inserted into the printer the length b may be dynamically adjusted to maintain the aspect ratio allowing the same image to be printed without distortion on any size of media. The image may be text and or graphics and may be black and white and or color.

At step after printing the entire image the printer may advance the media. The printer may advance the media by a distance less than the distance between the print head and a cutter such as a kiss cutter or full cutter. This ensures that the cutter will cut through a printed region of the media ensuring full bleed printing. For example if there are no subsequent images queued for printing on the same length of media at step the printer may perform a full cut on the media. Accordingly at step the printer may advance the media to a distance less than the distance between the print head and the full cutter. Conversely if there are subsequent images to be printed then at step the media may be advanced to a distance less than the distance between the print head and the kiss cutter. In both instances the distance may be a predetermined distance less than the distance between the print head and the corresponding cutter such as 1 millimeter less 2 millimeters or any other value.

As discussed above if there are no subsequent images to be printed then at step the media may be fully cut and the cut segment may be ejected from the printer. Alternately if there are subsequent images to be printed then at step the printer may perform a second kiss cut. The media may then be advanced at step by a second predetermined distance to create the tab as discussed above. The second predetermined distance may be quite small as a large tab may not be needed between images. Rather in such instances the tab may be used merely to provide separation between the kiss cuts to prevent bleed from the first image from interfering with the second image and preventing bleed from the second image from interfering with the first image . Steps may be repeated iteratively for additional prints.

As discussed above in many embodiments media cassettes may be provided in various widths background colors may have precut lengths pre printed borders or label elements or may include other features. In practice a user may remove and replace cassettes either when empty of media or while still partially full to utilize a different width or type of media. Typically printer heads are in fixed positions relative to the path of media as it advances through the printer from the cassette. Other implementations of printers may have heads that may move across a predetermined path relative to the media and while having variable positions may still require alignment with the media. For example to print properly aligned images with the media for example for printing from edge to edge known as full bleed printing the relative positions of the media and the printing heads must be tightly controlled.

Referring now to illustrated is a diagram of examples of a bordered b full bleed and c misaligned full bleed printing. Bordered printing involves printing a print area in an area smaller than the area of the media . Bordered printing is frequently the result of design constraints such as the need to have media gripped by rollers guides or other mechanisms at an edge prior to printing or where a print head is smaller than the width of the media . Full bleed or borderless printing allows the print area to extend to the edges of the media . In some embodiments full bleed printing may be accomplished by trimming a border from a bordered print by removing a center portion of a printed label or image or other such methods. In other embodiments full bleed printing may be accomplished by moving a print head across the width of the media as the media is advanced as is typical in ink jet printers or by having a print head with a length greater than the width of the media such as in some embodiments of direct thermal printers.

Printing full bleed images across the width of media and particularly media that may be significantly smaller than the width of the print head may require control over lateral displacement of the media and or control over displacement of the print image within the print head. For example with a two inch print head and half inch media the media may be centered on the print head or may be displaced from center by a significant amount due to slipping in the transport misalignment or other variations. As shown and exaggerated for clarity with misaligned full bleed printing the print area may extend off the media resulting in unintentional printing on the platen or other surfaces in inkjet die diffusion thermal transfer or similar systems and misalignment of the image on the media . The media may be rotated as shown and or may be laterally offset resulting in an unprinted edge. Similarly in thermal printing misalignment may result in undesirable heating of the platen or heating of print elements that are not in contact with and able to dissipate heat into the media resulting in higher print element temperatures than desired.

A mechanical solution to this alignment or tracking problem such as guide rails for the media may be difficult to implement if the printer has to deal with different size cassettes with multiple media widths and frequent swapping of these cassettes by the user. The usual solution of having a fixed width edge guide to steer the media as it is transported from the opening of the cassette to the print head to the exit chute is not possible in such scenarios. Variable width edge guides that adjust to the width of the inserted media cassette may not be feasible to implement in an inexpensive printer and do not eliminate the problem completely. Furthermore manufacturing tolerances in the slitting of the media and the printer parts that mate with the cassette also make it impractical for a purely mechanical solution to be effective.

If the tracking of the media is not controlled at it passes under the print head the printed image will move with respect to the edges of the media. For full bleed images this leads to a loss of image content near one edge or the other. For other label images with a frame around the central content the variable placement with respect to the media edges is readily noticeable to the user and results in unacceptable quality prints. One solution is to track the edge of the media as it passes under the print head and then electronically shift the image such that the relative position of the image with respect to the edges of the media stays constant. This requires a dedicated sensor that is dynamically positioned as a new cassette is loaded by the user. The dedicated sensor and its variable positioning leads to increased hardware cost and makes this a less desirable option.

Instead of expensive dedicated sensors inexpensive sensors may be employed with the use of a tracking pattern that is preprinted on media. Specifically a pattern may be printed on the back side of the media that may comprise distinct features at angles to each other such as horizontal and diagonal lines of a Z pattern. A sensor such as an optical media detect sensor may register the distinct features of the pattern as the media is translated along the print path. As the sensor traverses the length of the media the distance between the distinct features of the pattern varies continuously. The difference of this distance encodes the cross web position of the media as it passes under the sensor while their sum provides invariance to the translation speed v of the media.

Referring now to illustrated is an embodiment of such an alignment pattern and sensor for dynamically aligning a printed image on a printing medium. The alignment pattern may be printed on the media during manufacture and may comprise a saw tooth or Z shaped pattern a V shaped pattern an X shaped pattern or any other pattern with at least two non parallel lines or segments. Although shown as solid lines the pattern may include open lines or shapes symbols dashed lines colored lines or any other type and form of patterns. The pattern may comprise a visible or optically detectable pattern or may comprise a magnetically detectable pattern such as via a ferrous material impregnated in the substrate of the media an ultra violet luminescent pattern or any other type of pattern. Correspondingly sensor may comprise an optical sensor a magnetic sensor a capacitive sensor a Hall effect sensor or any other type and form of sensor and may include components for exciting alignment pattern for detection.

As shown as the media passes the sensor the sensor may detect printed and non printed areas of the pattern along a straight read line . Referring now to the graph of with the media traveling at a constant speed during printing and properly aligned the sensor will detect a consistent pattern. With the Z shaped alignment pattern the sensor output will show peaks with constant frequency as shown. Other patterns may produce other patterns of peaks but will have similar detectable output patterns indicating alignment. Although discussed in terms of time because the media is traveling at a constant speed the sensor output may also measure sensor output along a distance or length of media.

Conversely with the media out of alignment as shown in the sensor output will show peaks with varying frequency or with unequal temporal spacing. The difference t t or an average of the differences can be proportional to an offset distance from the aligned position and thus may be used to determine an offset of the media in pixels millimeters or other dimensions. During printing the difference or average time difference may be continuously monitored and the printer may adjust the output of the print head e.g. adjusting a pulse stream sent to resistive heaters of a print head to shift the pulses to other resistive heaters that are laterally displaced an amount corresponding to the shift of media or directing a print head motor moving an ink jet print head to adjust the start position of each line of the image to ensure that the output image is centered on the media.

Due to the symmetry of lines in the example pattern used for while the absolute value of the difference t tmay be proportional to the lateral displacement of the media the displacement can be to the left or the right if the sensor output cannot be used to directly distinguish horizontal lines from diagonal lines for example. Accordingly in some embodiments an alignment pattern may include different sizes of lines or otherwise distinct lines to allow an alignment system to distinguish between a lateral displacement in one direction and a lateral displacement in another e.g. opposite direction. For example are diagrams illustrating such an alignment pattern and the corresponding sensor output respectively. As shown alignment pattern may include diagonal lines that are wider than horizontal lines. The sensor may have a longer sustained output for the diagonal lines as shown or in some embodiments may have a higher amplitude output for the diagonal lines. Accordingly a positive difference t tmay indicate an offset in one direction and a negative difference t tmay indicate an offset in the opposite direction.

Other alignment patterns may be used incorporating the above features. For example illustrates examples of other embodiments of alignment patterns . Other alignment patterns may include manufacturer identification or codes branding or other designs. For example a manufacturer may make a cassette with memory storing templates and image elements for stickers involving a superhero and the alignment pattern may comprise an image of the superhero in flight along a diagonal direction or a logo along another diagonal or horizontal direction. In some embodiments any figure with a pattern such that every line or slice along the direction of travel of the media is unique may be used to directly determine a lateral offset of the media as a sensor reading each slice will output a different and distinct output signal. The sensor output may be less stable than with a continuous black line but still easily detectable compared to a white or neutral surface of the alignment pattern.

In many embodiments a sensor may have an aperture larger than an alignment pattern feature. For example an alignment pattern may include lines of for example 1 mm in width. However an optical sensor with an aperture of for example 5 mm may be used in some embodiments. Accordingly in such embodiments the sensor will not reach full saturation during scanning Illustrated in is a diagram illustrating sensor outputs with a sensor aperture illustrated via large dashed line larger than an alignment pattern feature. As shown as the media is moved beneath a window of sensor the sensor output will climb as more of a dark feature of pattern is within the window and fall as the pattern feature is moved beyond the window. Accordingly the sensor output may rise and fall in a gentler curve than depicted in . The sensor output may be averaged over time or a derivative of the output may be calculated to identify peaks representing features of pattern .

As shown in many embodiments due to a difference in thickness between horizontal elements and diagonal elements in the alignment pattern and the sensor aperture being larger than pattern elements amplitude of the sensor output when reading the wider features may be higher than amplitude of the sensor output when reading narrow features. These differences in amplitude may be used to determine whether the sensor is reading a horizontal feature or diagonal feature of the pattern by identifying whether the amplitude of the sensor output is above or below a threshold. The threshold may be predetermined or may be dynamically determined based off of average values or a weighted average of one or more previous readings or other similar algorithms.

In some embodiments utilizing a sensor with a wider aperture than normal alignment pattern features an alignment pattern may include a wider feature to represent an approaching end of the roll of media. The printer may use the end of roll detection to prevent printing an image that is longer than the remaining length of blank media. is a diagram illustrating sensor outputs and end of roll detection with a sensor aperture larger than normal alignment pattern features. As shown an alignment pattern may include a large feature such as a wide horizontal band stripes a logo or other pattern that is distinct from other features in the alignment pattern . Feature may be printed on the roll after the media has been manufactured during cutting of a large length of media to proper size for each cassette. Accordingly feature may be asynchronous with alignment pattern and may be printed at a predetermined position from the end of the cut media. The feature may be larger than the sensor aperture or may be smaller than the sensor aperture but larger than other alignment features in the pattern such that the sensor is fully saturated and or the sensor output is higher when scanning the feature than when scanning other features.

To further illustrate media and printing alignment illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a pattern specifically example pattern in a Z shape centered on the back of the media for tracking purposes. Although shown in a Z pattern any other pattern can be used with a first line or section distinct from a second line or section. A sensor such as an optical paper detect sensor not illustrated may register the horizontal and diagonal lines of the Z pattern as the media is translated along the print path . In the example shown the media is skewed with respect to the normal transport direction by 2 degrees. As the media deviates from the center of the print path the distance between each pair of consecutive horizontal and diagonal lines changes. Specifically when the media is centered under the sensor and the pattern is centered on the media the distance between a first horizontal line and a diagonal line and the distance between the diagonal line and a second horizontal line are equal. Although discussed in terms of distance this distance may also be interpreted as a time such that when the media is travelling at a constant speed and the media and pattern are centered the time between sensor readings of the first horizontal line and diagonal line and the diagonal line and the second horizontal line are equal. When the media is offset as shown in however these distances or times will no longer be equal a large distance or time between a first horizontal line and diagonal line will be followed by a correspondingly short distance or time between the diagonal line and the second horizontal line or vice versa. The difference of these distances or times is proportional to the cross web position of the media as it passes under the sensor and may be used to detect skew or translation. Advantageously the sum of these distances is insensitive to offset and skew if the skew is small and may be used to determine or verify the speed v of the media. As shown in in some embodiments different line thicknesses may be used for the horizontal and diagonal line to facilitate their classification discussed in more detail below.

Let tand tdenote the time elapsed between registering a horizontal line followed by a diagonal line and a diagonal line followed by a horizontal line respectively. Although measured as a series of discrete values upon reading each line tand tmay be thought of as points on a smooth time dependent curve. Thus for example tracking T t such as the illustrated distance between horizontal arrows T t at t represents the cross web distance between the center of the print head or location of the sensor and the center of the Z pattern and may be determined directly at points corresponding to detected lines or may be interpolated at any point e.g. t based on the smooth time dependent curve. Letting Zrepresent the width of the Z pattern and represent the angle between the horizontal and diagonal line the value of T t can be computed from the geometry of the pattern as follows 

Let y denote the signal amplitude measured by the optical sensor. Although the measurements are made in time as the media moves by the sensor the measurements may also be represented as functions of distance down the media x. Accordingly y t and y x may be used interchangeably assuming x t where is average speed of the media transport to convert between time and distance.

Referring briefly ahead illustrates a typical trace y recorded by the sensor dashed line . There are peaks in the amplitude of the measured signal when the sensor passes over the horizontal and diagonal lines of the Z s printed on the media . The following discussion deals with modeling the signal in the vicinity of these peaks detecting and localizing the peaks classifying them into horizontal or diagonal lines and computing and predicting the dynamic tracking of the media as it passes under the head.

In many embodiments the signal from the sensor may be digitized to form a stream of digital samples representative of the sensor output. In the presence of noise detecting the peaks by simply comparing the value of each sample to its immediate neighbors to determine a local maxima is not robust. Instead in some embodiments a model is employed to smooth out the measurements facilitating a robust detection and localization of the peaks. Let q x denote a second order polynomial around location xgiven as Eq. 4 The coefficients a b and c are parameters of the polynomial and are adjusted for each location xsuch that Eq. 5 where x denotes a set of x values in the local neighborhood of x. Using Eqs. 4 and 5 the polynomial coefficients can be interpreted as

Let x denote the sampling interval in x for the measurements. The neighborhood x is defined to be 2N 1 samples around x i.e. Eq. 10 Then the least squares solution to Eq. 9 can be written in closed form as

The FIR filters are obtained from the rows of the matrix F with each row reversed in the order of elements. Plot a in shows an example of what these filters look like for a 2 mm neighborhood and x 0.021 mm although other values may be used.

In practice the quadratic fit to the measurements gets progressively worse as N increases. Consequently it is desirable to deemphasize the influence of the data points further away from the center point. In some embodiments this is accomplished by a weighting function that modulates the cost of the error in the least squares fitting process as a function of distance from x. This may be referred to as applying a windowing function to the measurements. In one embodiment a Blackman window is applied for the weights w given as

Ideally the first derivative will be zero and the second derivative will be negative only at a peak location. However in practice this is not sufficient as seen in . For example zero crossings in the b plot may also occur in flat response regions larger than the support of the filter e.g. around x 25 mm in . However if the response is flat relative to the support of the filter the a values at these zero crossings will also be small compared to the a values at the peak. Accordingly let xand xbe any two consecutive sampling locations x x x . Then peaks may be detected via a detection condition Peak detected 

In one embodiment peaks may be detected through interpolation of the b values by fitting a straight line to b between xand xand determining the exact location xof the zero crossing of the peak as follows 

However when the sampling interval is large in many embodiments higher accuracy may be achieved by determining the maxima of the fitted model q x and q x . Setting the first derivative of Eq. 4 to zero and solving for x yields 

In general the location of the maxima may differ slightly between the two consecutive fits at xand x. Accordingly in some embodiments the average of xand xmay be used to find the peak x x x 2.

Once a peak location is determined in some embodiments both the a and c values may be passed to the classification module at step for determining whether the peaks correspond to a horizontal or a diagonal line of the Z pattern.

In some embodiments the detected peaks may need to be classified as a horizontal or a diagonal line of the Z pattern for example to detect whether lateral displacement of the media is to the left or right. In some embodiments as discussed above the horizontal and diagonal lines may have different thicknesses. In other embodiments other distinct features may be used such as patterning or saturation of the line. Depending on the thickness of these two line types or other such features and the shape of the aperture of the optical sensor both the amplitude and the width of the recorded peaks may vary between horizontal and diagonal lines. The c coefficient captures the amplitude while the second derivative a captures the width and the curvature of the peak. In some embodiments these two coefficients a and c computed at the peak locations may be used as features to classify the peaks.

If the Z pattern is clean with no extraneous marks such as smudges or dirt on the media and the amplitude of the tracking is not large enough such that the horizontal and diagonal lines merge at the corners of the Z then a two class Bayes classifier or similar algorithm may be applied. If dirt or other unintended markings on the media are present then the sensor may register a peak that does not correspond to the horizontal or diagonal line. In such instances a multi class classification algorithm discussed in more detail below may be applied.

Let denote a feature vector made up of the set of valid classes. For the two class problem d h where d and h denote the diagonal and horizontal line class respectively. Let circumflex over l denote the estimated line type for the ppeak located at xand let

The probability distribution of the features given the line type may be modeled as a multi variate Gaussian distribution. Letting right arrow over m denote the mean value of the feature vectors and denote the covariance matrix of the Gaussian distribution for lines of type l the general form of the decision boundary of Eq. 23 for Gaussian distributions may be

In some embodiments if there is dirt or other unintended markings on the media the sensor may register a peak that does not correspond to the horizontal or diagonal line. Forcing the classification to either of the two known classes may result in an error and throw the tracking estimate off. The probability distribution of the all the peaks that are not the horizontal or the diagonal line is unknown and cannot be quantified using the two class algorithm discussed above. Instead in such embodiments a threshold may be applied to the likelihood of a peak corresponding to the two known classes. The unknown class u is chosen when these likelihoods fall below the threshold. The classification to the known classes is then the same as discussed above. The overall decision rule is given as

The Z pattern by itself in the absence of dirt or other unintended marks yields a very predictable pattern of alternating horizontal and diagonal lines. The a priori probability P l discussed above considers each peak in isolation and completely ignores this correlation. Leveraging this information can significantly improve classification accuracy in the presence of noise.

Let right arrow over l l . . . l denote the vector of line types for lines with indices 1 to n. The joint probability of the line types may be modeled by the Markov chain

Diagram c of illustrates a state transition example which accounts for observing peaks due to dirt or unintended marks or the possibility that the diagonal and horizontal line types merge if the tracking drifts to the extreme edge of the Z pattern. In the example shown this can occur 5 of the time although other values may be used. The class for this unknown line type is denoted as u or u depending on whether it occurs after observing a d or an h respectively. The class is divided into two since the subsequent transition is almost always to a valid line type opposite to the valid line type observed previously. The likelihood of observing another invalid line type when in states u or u is typically very small.

For best performance the classification needs to be done for a block of line types rather than one at a time. However waiting to classify a peak until additional peaks are observed may result in a delay that may be unacceptable in a real time tracking application although it may be used in an off line initialization sequence . The block classifier is obtained as

For reduced block sizes the probabilities may be conditioned on the class determinations for the previous indices. For a block size of 1 the Bayes classifier is given as

At a depicts an embodiment of an example of a discrete Z pattern and the sensor path with extreme tracking that illustrates the shortcomings of the one at a time classifier method of Eq. 23 . The sensor signal for this example is collected using a pattern of distinct Z s with gaps between them as shown in FIG. K a . The horizontal and diagonal line thickness are the same so the peaks need to be classified solely on the basis of the a coefficients. In some embodiments if the aperture of the sensor is circular and line thickness of the horizontal and diagonal lines are the same the amplitude of the peaks will not be different.

The resulting signal is shown in the exemplary plot of FIG. K b showing the voltage recorded by the sensor line and peaks circles and crosses identified by the classifier. The paper has tracked to an extreme location as shown by the sensor path resulting in the diagonal peaks merging with the horizontal peaks in the first half of the recording. The peaks get progressively more resolved in the latter half of the recording as the media tracks towards the center. The peak finding algorithm is able to resolve all the peaks marked by crosses and circles .

The a coefficients of each of the peaks are plotted in FIG. L a with circles representing coefficients for horizontal lines and crosses representing coefficients for diagonal lines. The dashed line of FIG. L a and FIG. L b discussed in more detail below illustrates a threshold for the classifier determined as the a value where the two classes have the same probability. In an off line initialization sequence the probably distribution of the two classes will not be known and may need to be estimated from this data. A clustering algorithm such as k means can be used to sub divide the a coefficients into two groups. The probability distribution for each of the two horizontal groups can then be computed as discussed below.

FIG. L b shows the estimated Gaussian distributions for the horizontal solid line and diagonal line with crosses classes. Since this is a one dimensional classification problem with only one feature the decision boundary is a simple threshold obtained as the value of a where the probability of the two classes are equal illustrated as the dashed line in FIGS. L a and L b . The resulting classification misclassifies a number of the horizontal peaks as diagonal peaks. The a values of the horizontal peaks are artificially elevated due to the merging of the peaks and fall in the region occupied by the diagonal peaks. Accordingly in such embodiments using the classifier of Eq. 23 it may not be possible to correctly classify all the peaks correctly because the classifier only looks at one sample at a time and classifies it based on the two class distribution. To remedy this in some embodiments a priori knowledge of the repeating patterns of horizontal and diagonal lines may be leveraged. For the distinct Z pattern of FIG. K a the leading and trailing horizontal lines of each Z may be represented by two distinct classes namely h and h yielding the state transition diagram of . Probability distributions for the two horizontal line classes are the same even though they are two separate classes from the perspective of the Markov chain model. Using the probability distributions estimated in FIG. L b and employing the Viterbi algorithm to solve Eq. 29 one may obtain the exemplary classification shown in . For clarity the h and h classes are combined into a single horizontal class. FIG. N a is a plot illustrating that all the horizontal circle and diagonal cross peaks of the recorded signal of FIG. K a are now properly classified. FIG. N b plots the a values with their corresponding labels. Utilizing the a priori information thus provides an advantage as a values deep in the region occupied by the diagonal line class are still classified as horizontal lines to yield a consistent pattern of horizontal and diagonal lines. In this case information is being passed forward and backward in time to maximize the probability of the pattern as a whole. The unambiguous classification in the latter half of the signal where the peaks are better resolved helps in the classification of the earlier half where the peaks are merged and hard to resolve. In some embodiments this method may be employed only in an off line initialization sequence to learn the classification parameters and compute an initial offset to be used in subsequent printing. In such embodiments the classification results are not time critical and the entire recording can be classified at once. In real time applications the Markov chain a priori model may still be employed but the block sizes may be kept small such that the delay in obtaining tracking information can be managed.

To compute the data probabilities mean and covariance parameters of the Gaussian distribution for each class are utilized. These can be estimated from sample averages given labeled training data in which the class of each line type is known. Given n labeled samples the mean and covariance estimators are

In typical usage the characteristics of the printer transport and the response of the optical sensor may drift with time. Each run of the media may also have variations in the printed Z pattern. Both of these factors may cause the class distributions in feature space to vary over time. Consequently in some embodiments it may be desirable to dynamically update the parameters of the classifier to track these changing characteristics. This can be done by using the previously classified samples as ground truth. As long as the parameters do not change abruptly this circular method of the using the classifier to classify the samples and then using the classified samples to update the classifier parameters does not pose any problems. The mean estimator right arrow over circumflex over m of each class l given by Eq. 31 can be adapted to update when a new sample arrives with class circumflex over l l as

In some embodiments once a diagonal line is identified in between two horizontal lines the tracking can be computed using Eq. 1 . This gives a discrete sampling of the continuous tracking of the media at the location of the diagonal line as follows 

In some embodiments the tracking predictor may be based on a polynomial model fitted to the last r discrete estimates of the tracking obtained using Eq. 38 . The support r of the model based predictor controls how quickly the predictor adapts to changing tracking estimates. For book keeping purposes a time varying set Tmay include the last r tracking estimates at any given time t and their corresponding locations. The set Tmay be updated whenever a new tracking estimate is available with the latest value replacing the oldest value in the set such that the number of elements in the set remains constant at r.

The order of the fitted polynomial is another design parameter higher order polynomials can give better fits to the tracking estimates of the past but in general do not give robust prediction estimates for the future. For this reason in some embodiments linear fits i.e. first order may be employed. If the support r is chosen small enough to ensure that the tracking is more or less linear over this support the model will provide sufficient accuracy for the tracking data and robust prediction capability. The parameters of the linear fit namely slope s and offset o can be obtained by a least squares fit to the data in T. The parameters will therefore be functions of time t and change abruptly when a new tracking estimate becomes available and Tis updated. The model based tracking predictor is given as Eq. 39 explicitly showing the dependence of the estimate parameters and on time t via the set T. Note that this predictor will most probably be discontinuous in x when a new tracking estimate is obtained and the parameters of the fit are recomputed. To obtain a smooth continuous prediction circumflex over T x is fed into a one tap IIR filter that operates at the sampling interval x as 1 1 Eq. 40 where is the space constant of the IIR filter in distance units and controls how quickly the filter reacts to changes in circumflex over T . It trades off the bias versus variance of the tracking prediction.

While estimating the parameters s and o of the linear predictor in some embodiments the tracking estimate data in Tmay be weighted to give more weight to the more recent estimates as compared to the older estimates. This improves the accuracy of the predictor as the most recent samples better reflect what the estimate is going to be in the future. 1 r r 1 1 r 1 r 1 . . . 1 1 r 1 was used as the weighting for the r samples ordered from oldest to most recent.

When first starting up in many embodiments the print engine will not have any tracking data available to estimate the parameters of the linear predictor. It will also take time to have the full complement of r samples for the full support of the predictor. So in the initial portion of the prediction the print engine works with whatever number of samples are available until reaching the support of r samples after which it starts to discard the older samples from T. This is seen in plot b of and plots c and d of . In these examples the first sample becomes available when the printer is at x 15 mm and the second one at x 27.6 mm. Before the first sample the print engine has no data and cannot predict the tracking. Between the first and the second sample the print engine has a zeroth order predictor pegged at the value of the first sample. From the second sample onwards the print engine has a linear predictor. As more samples come in the support of the predictor grows until reaching r samples and stays constant from then on. The IIR filter is initialized as Eq. 41 where iis the first sample index where the predictor circumflex over T has valid data. Dithering and Quantization

To compensate for the tracking of the media in some embodiments the print engine may shift the printed image by the amount predicted by the IIR filter circumflex over T of Eq. 40 . This shift may be implemented by re interpolating the image on a grid displaced from the original grid by the predicted tracking circumflex over T . However this re interpolation may be quite computationally intensive to perform for every line of the image. To reduce the computational burden in some embodiments the image shifts may be limited to a full pixel or a half pixel shift. However such shifts may be more readily apparent to the eye. To mask these shifts in some embodiments the print engine may employ a technique known as dithering in which a high frequency noise pattern is added to the tracking estimates before quantization. This may effectively achieve finer quantization intervals leveraging the smoothing that will be performed by the eye when the print is viewed.

Let d be the length of the dither pattern and D denote the array of dither noise values. Let T denote the quantization interval. The quantized tracking estimate i x is given as

In some embodiments the tracking set T t as measured by the optical sensor may differ from the true tracking of the media with respect to the print head due to positioning errors in the sensor and the Z markings on the media. This leads to a static and dynamic tracking offset in the measurements the former can be corrected via a calibration whereas the latter may not be as easily corrected and could result in an uncontrolled error. Systems and methods for addressing these errors are discussed below in which T t is used to denote the true tracking of the print with respect to the print head.

Although in many embodiments the Z s or similar pattern are intended to be centered on the media and the optical sensor designed to be centered with respect to the print head in practice this might not be so given some tolerance in the printing of the Z s as well as manufacturing tolerances in the printer hardware. Let Tand Tdenote the cross web offset between the center of the media and the Z pattern and the center of print head and the sensor respectively. The offset Tis positive when Z s are shifted right with respect to the center of the media when viewed from the underside the side on which the Z s are printed of the media with the leading edge of the print at the top. The offset Tis positive when the sensor is shifted right with respect to the print head when viewed from the print side and the leading edge of the print at the top. With this sign convention Tand Twill be additive offsets to the measured tracking to obtain the final tracking of the print with respect to the print head. Eq. 43 discussed below lists these as static offsets in the tracking measurements that can be calibrated out for each printer and media run.

In addition to the cross web offset T the sensor will generally have an offset in the down web direction denoted as x as it may not be physically coincident with the print head in some embodiments for example a platen may be coincident with the print head to support media during printing . In other embodiments the sensor may be coincident with the print head where media is not required to be supported during printing. In practice this offset may be quite large since the optical sensor may perform multiple functions e.g. as a paper sensor and its position may be chosen to optimize some other functionality. This down web sensor offset can manifest itself as a tracking offset when the media is fed at an angle to the print head. For example illustrates an example scenario where the sensor is upstream of the print head and the media is being fed at angle to the print head . By construction the tracking signal T t gives the distance of the sensor from the center of the Z s along the paper axis. Using geometry the print engine can then figure the true tracking T t at the print head as

The measurements are both scaled and offset from the true value. In general angle may vary during the print leading to a dynamic offset and scaling in the tracking values. In many embodiments it may not be possible to measure the angle with a single sensor. In such embodiments if it is assumed that angle is the sole source of the media tracking offset as opposed to lateral translation we may estimate from the measurements as

The printed Z offset can be estimated by scanning the back side of the media as discussed above. Although it s possible that the offset Tcan vary down the length of the media typically the offset may be lateral and lack any angular component. Accordingly in such instances the offset may remain more or less constant within some tolerance and the print engine may just estimate the average offset once per coated lane of the media.

Referring briefly ahead to illustrated in a is an exemplary scan of the back side of the media . Image processing has been employed to localize the edges of the media shown in thick black dotted lines . The media has been cut with longitudinal edges in parallel. This a priori knowledge adds robustness to the edge detection process. Once the edges are localized a 1 dimensional Z signal is extracted along the center line shown as dashed line and the position of the horizontal and diagonal lines are determined as discussed above. By measuring the distances between the diagonal and horizontal lines the pattern off sets can be determined similar to the tracking algorithm. Returning to illustrated is the estimated Z pattern offset for the scan. The offsets solid line vary in the example by approximately 0.05 mm along the length of the media from the mean offset circumflex over T dashed line 0.39 mm.

In order to calibrate the cross web position of the sensor the true tracking T is measured in addition to the tracking measured by the sensor. Briefly referring to illustrated at b is a scan of a printed target that allows measurement of the true tracking of the sensor for calibration of the print engine. This image has tick marks at known positions on the left and right sides of the image that are arranged to be centered with respect to the image.

Once the image is printed and scanned image processing is employed to localize the edges of the prints shown as black large dotted lines and the tick marks shown as grey dots. The longitudinal edges of image are again constrained to be parallel. By measuring the distance of the grey dots with respect to the dotted black lines the true tracking experienced by the print circumflex over T can be estimated. The sensor offset can then be computed from Eq. 42 as mean mean Eq. 45 where it is assumed that the media angle into the print head 0.

At step the printer may advance the printing medium by a first distance or for a first time period. The printer may advance the printing medium by a predetermined distance or may continuously advance the medium at a set speed during printing which may be dependent on print settings e.g. draft or fine mode .

At step the printer may identify or detect a second line. In some embodiments the sensor output for the second line may have a higher or lower amplitude or may have a longer or shorter sustained output which may allow the printer to distinguish between the first line and second line in the alignment pattern. In some embodiments the printer may skip steps and as the distance between two successive lines may be enough to identify an offset and direction depending on the pattern.

At step the printer may advance the printing medium by a second distance or for a second time period as discussed above and at step the printer may identify or detect a third line. The printer may determine if there is a difference between the first time period or distance and second time period or distance. If there is no difference then the printer may identify the media as being properly aligned and repeat steps . If there is a difference then the printer may identify the horizontal offset proportional to the difference between the first time period and second time period. As discussed above in embodiments with a distinct first line and second line the printer may further identify the direction of the offset based on whether the difference is positive or negative. The printer may apply a horizontal shift in printing of the image at step corresponding to the offset and repeat steps .

Although discussed above with the alignment pattern centered on the media the alignment pattern does not necessarily have to be centered. For example if the alignment pattern is offset to one side during manufacture the memory of the cassette may be configured with a default offset value for the cassette which may be added to or subtracted from any identified offset determined by the printer via the alignment pattern. For example if the alignment pattern is 15 pixels to the left of center of the media then a 15 modifier may be stored on the card and added to an identified offset of 15 if the media is properly aligned resulting in a net of zero and not causing the printer to adjust printing output. Thus centering of the alignment pattern need not actually be necessary during manufacture or printing provided it is consistent within the roll of media.

In some embodiments of printers the printer may heat up during use. For example and as discussed above a thermal printer may heat up resistive print elements to print pixels and or activate color forming dyes in a print medium. Additionally to print quickly the thermal printer may preheat the print elements to a temperature above ambient temperature but below a temperature at which a first color forming dye is activated reducing the amount of additional energy needed to print a pixel. For example if a first color forming dye becomes activated at a temperature of 90 degrees Celsius for a predetermined time by preheating print elements to a temperature of for example 30 degrees Celsius the printer need only raise the elements another sixty degrees to begin printing the pixel rather than the seventy degrees needed from a room temperature of 20 degrees Celsius. Although this may seem like a minor difference it may be important for high speed printing particularly with dyes that require heat at an activation temperature for an extended period of time. Because the ambient temperature is closer to this activation temperature the dye may be raised to activation temperature more quickly resulting in reduced or eliminated activation of other dyes as heat transfers through the medium . Similarly ink jet printers may include heating elements to heat ink to ensure proper flow. However if the ambient temperature around the print head becomes too high and or if the heating elements or print head cannot shed heat quickly enough a thermal printer may be unable to avoid printing a pixel where a blank space is required or pixels may be oversaturated or performance of electronic components in the print head such as driver chips may degrade or a lower activation temperature color may be accidentally activated while printing a pixel of a higher activation temperature color or ink may congeal and the printer may have to pause before printing to cool off or delay printing the subsequent print. Although referred to as overheating in many embodiments such temperatures may not cause damage to the unit but may degrade printing quality. For example if the ambient temperature within a thermal printer is too high color forming dyes in the media may be activated by such ambient temperature resulting in over saturated colors spurious colors darkening or other undesirable visual artifacts. Accordingly many printers incorporate a heat sink or reservoir to transfer heat from the print head.

If the printer s heat sink is undersized the printer may overheat quickly resulting in reduced printing time before pausing to cool. However if the heat sink is oversized the printer may take a long time to preheat one or more print elements. For example illustrated in is a time temperature graph of an embodiment of a printer utilizing no heat sink or an undersized heat sink. As shown during preheating a head temperature may rise quickly to a temperature at which the printer is ready to print . However during printing the head temperature similarly rises quickly and reaches an overheat temperature at which the printer must pause to cool down. Conversely illustrated in is a time temperature graph of an embodiment of a printer utilizing a large heat sink. While the printer has an extended printing time preheating takes a similarly long time which may annoy or frustrate users.

To solve these contrasting requirements of quick preheating and slow overheating a hybrid heat sink or dual time constant heat sink may be employed. The print head heat sink or a portion of the heat sink in contact with the print head with a first time constant may allow a head temperature to rise quickly to a first temperature allowing quick preheating. As shown in during printing periods the temperature of the print head may rise sharply. However during cooling periods illustrated as shaded bands the print head heat sink may shed heat relatively quickly into a larger heat reservoir or portion of the heat sink having a second time constant reducing temperature of the print head and allowing a longer overall printing time. Furthermore because typical printing does not require full saturation of every pixel the print head will typically not be heated to overheating temperature during a first printing period e.g. during printing of a first label and thus may cool substantially during non printing intervals as shown in . A user may thus be able to print a large number of labels before the unit needs to pause for cooling. Additionally because of the large heat sink or heat sink reservoir during such required pauses for cooling after overheating the temperature of the print head and ambient temperatures in the printer may quickly drop resulting in shorter required pauses.

Additionally during printing of images that have different densities laterally across the media the print head may heat unevenly with one end of the print head being hotter than the other end or one position on the print head may have a temperature different from another position complicating control of print density. Accordingly a hybrid heat sink or print head heat sink having a fast time constant in the vicinity of the heaters may allow heat to diffuse quickly across the print head reducing or eliminating these temperature variations.

Insulator may comprise any type and form of static or dynamic thermal insulator for preventing or resisting the initial flow of heat from small heat sink to large heat sink . For example in one embodiment insulator may comprise an air gap. Large heat sink may be separated from small heat sink by the air gap during preheating and when the printer is ready to print the large heat sink may be moved into position against small heat sink . This may require an additional motor or lever to move the heat sink. In other embodiments a bimetallic strip or passive thermosensitive switch attached to the small heat sink or print head may bend due to a rise in temperature and contact large heat sink providing a path for shedding excess heat. In other embodiments magnets or electromagnets may be employed to move large heat sink and small heat sink into contact.

In other embodiments insulator may comprise a material with a low thermal conductivity or conductivity lower than that of aluminum such as brass nickel iron steel plastic glass or any other type and form of material or combination of materials. For example insulator may have a thermal conductivity of between 0.1 and 0.6 W mK compared to a thermal conductivity of around 200 W mK for aluminum alloys. In use the small heat sink may quickly heat up with the print head during use. Insulator may prevent energy from flowing quickly into large heat sink . However once the printer has overheated and printing is paused the large heat sink may quickly shed heat reducing the time during which the printer needs to be paused. Additionally in practice and when not printing fully saturated images as the print head is not on at all times the large heat sink provides significant cooling of the print head after each print increasing the time for the print head to reach the overheating temperature .

In still other embodiments insulator may comprise a controllable heat pipe or other such element allowing the heat sink to be switched on and off or enabled or disabled dynamically for preheating or printing. For example flow of a cooling fluid within a heat pipe may be throttled to control cooling.

As discussed above some printers may include auto ejection mechanisms to eject printed and cut media. However in some embodiments for example due to the small size of the printer it may not be practical to include an ejection mechanism. For example some versions of printer may not include an auto ejection mechanism. Cut media may fall freely from the media ejection slot of the printer or may be retained within or rest inside the printer. This may cause a problem in unattended printing if full cuts are used rather than the multiple image kiss cut method discussed above. For example if a user is printing several images from a tablet computer with full cuts after each image a previously printed and cut image may impede the forward progress of media during printing. This may cause slippage or stuttering resulting in visual artifacts or banding on the printed image. Accordingly with such printers it may be desirable to ensure that the user is physically present at the printer after printing and cutting the image and may remove the printed media from the printer.

One method of ensuring the user is at the printer may include requiring the user to perform a gesture or movement to cut the media such as a swipe to cut gesture. is a diagram of a user triggered cutting mechanism. A printer may include a cut sensor or a slot or channel with multiple sensors. The sensors may comprise capacitive sensors optical sensors resistive sensors or any other type and form of sensor and or switch or button. The channel may further include one or more lights or LEDs to light when a corresponding sensor is activated. A user may move their finger from a first position corresponding to a first sensor to a second position corresponding to a second sensor. If the printer detects successive activation of each sensor within a predetermined time period the printer may interpret the sensor input as a swipe gesture and execute a full cut in the media including advancing or retracting the media to position the media under a full cutter as discussed above. The cut sensor may include one or more intermediate sensors between the first position and . For example the sensor channel may include three sensors and the printer may detect successive activation of a left sensor middle sensor and right sensor within the predetermined time period to identify a swipe gesture. The printer may be configured to identify the swipe gesture responsive to left to right activation of the sensors right to left activation or both. In some embodiments the printer may include a physical slider that the user may move from the first position to the second position . Such slider may not be connected to the cutter mechanically but instead activate one or more contacts or switches which may be interpreted by the printer as a cut command.

Referring now to illustrated is a flow chart of a method of printing multiple images with a manually triggered cutting mechanism. At step the printer may receive an image for printing. The image may be an image edited on the printer or may be an image created generated downloaded and or edited and transmitted from a second device such as a tablet computer smart phone laptop or desktop computer or any other type and form of device. The printer may receive one image or may receive multiple images and queue subsequent images for printing. The printer may also receive a command to print multiple copies of any image. At step the printer may print the first image using any of the techniques discussed above.

As discussed above if the printer receives multiple images for queuing and printing or is commanded to print multiple copies of an image the printer may kiss cut the media at step and advance the media for printing a subsequent image. The printer may repeat steps for any additional images or copies. In some embodiments the printer may receive additional images while printing and may thus repeat steps as necessary.

At step the printer may detect activation or touch of a first sensor at a first position. Upon detecting release or deactivation of the first sensor indicating that the user s finger has moved from the sensor the printer may initiate a countdown timer of a predetermined time or duration such as 3 seconds 5 seconds or any other value. If no activation of a second sensor at a second position is detected before the timer expires then the printer may return to step and wait for activation of a sensor again. In some embodiments the printer may include multiple sensors and look for release or deactivation of a first sensor and activation of a second sensor within a short time period and then deactivation of the second sensor and activation of a third sensor within another short time period. Thus the timer may be reset or multiple timers may be used.

If at step the printer detects activation of a second sensor at a second position or motion of the user s finger via multiple sensors or a slider as discussed above to the second position the printer may at step perform a full cut on the media. As discussed above performing the full cut may comprise advancing or retracting the media into position for cutting. Because the user has just performed the swipe gesture the user is in physical proximity to the printer at the time of cutting media and may manually remove the media from the printer s media ejection slot.

Additionally if multiple images are queued for printing such as multiple address labels the printer may perform kiss cuts between each image as discussed above. However at any point during printing the user may perform the swipe gesture or activate the sensors to command the printer to cut the media. Responsive to detecting the activation or gesture after completing printing of any currently printing image the printer may perform a full cut rather than a kiss cut and then continue printing the queued images or copies. This may allow a user to begin using a cut strip of printed labels while the printer continues with the queue.

In some embodiments a home button on a printer such as button shown in may be used to return to the home screen . In other embodiments a return or home button may be displayed in the application or in a sub application or a gesture may be used to return to the home screen such as a four finger swipe to one side or up or down.

The application may include an edit screen as shown in which may allow for WYSIWYG editing of an image or label . Icons may presented for adding elements photos borders text or patterns to the image as well as modifying length or width of the image. The image may be shown in a 1 1 scale view or a scaled view in which the entire image fits on the display. In the 1 1 scale view if the image extends beyond the display an off screen indicator may be displayed to indicate that the image extends farther than the screen can show. A user may use a gesture to scroll the image such as a two or three finger scroll.

For comparison these views are shown in . On the top the image is displayed in a scaled or fit to length mode in which the entire image is displayed while on the right the image is displayed at a 1 1 scale and extends off the left and right of the display. In the fit to length mode the aspect ratio of the image may be preserved. For example and as shown the height or width of the image may be reduced to preserve the ratio between the height and the scaled length. As shown in off screen indicators may be removed or displayed as the image is scrolled to the left or right.

In some embodiments images may be of an explicit width e.g. 1 inch and may be printed only on media of that width or larger. In other embodiments images may be scaled automatically to match the media inserted into the printer. For example an image may be created of width x and length y. Width x may be dynamically set before printing to the width of the media in an inserted cassette and length y may be dynamically calculated based on the aspect ratio. The image may be scaled appropriately and printed as a full bleed image on the media regardless of media width. Combining these embodiments the image may also be generated with an explicit width and scaled if necessary if the inserted media does not match the selected width. For example referring to the application may provide a label width selection screen which may allow a user to select a width for the label or image.

As discussed above a user may add elements such as photos backgrounds or art or clip art to an image. Referring now to a library element selection screen may allow a user to select fonts art photos frames backgrounds or other such elements as well as connect to an online store to purchase additional elements. Referring now to shown are exemplary element selection screens that may be presented to the user after selecting an element type from screen . The user may select from a category e.g. monkeys or logos and visually browse stored elements in that category. The user may use a gesture such as a swipe to flip through the index of elements. Categories may also indicate locations such as a hardware location of stored photos e.g. in an SD card or in memory of the printer or device or an online storage or storage associated with an account such as a social network account a web based image data document file or video hosting or sharing account or service or any other type of online data storage.

To facilitate easy intuitive editing dynamic sliders may provide a user the ability to modify border sizes or color selection. For example referring to a dynamic border width selection screen may allow a user to dynamically adjust a border or frame around an image while viewing the result of the adjustment in real time. Similarly as shown in a user may dynamically adjust colors such as background colors via a dynamic color selection screen . The screen may allow selection of favorite or recently used colors or may provide a slider for dynamic modification of a color. As shown in one embodiment a user may move a slider to adjust hue and then select saturation and lightness value via a palette of varying tiles within the hue. Alternately the slider may be used to select lightness or value with the palette displaying hue and saturation or the slider may be used to select saturation with the palette displaying hue and value. Other color selection methods may be used including color wheels or pickers. The color of the selected element may be dynamically modified in real time as the user selects colors allowing for easy editing.

As shown in various editing controls may be displayed when a user selects an element within an edit screen . For example as shown a user may select an element such as a text box e.g. the text Matthew shown with a selection box around it in . The element may be dragged around on the screen by the user for placement and may be rotated and or resized. In some embodiments the user may use gestures for editing such as a pinch gesture to resize the element or a two finger rotate gesture for rotation while in other embodiments the user may use a control to allow precise resizing or rotation either via direct entry of a value e.g. 90 degrees or 3 inches of width or via plus and minus controls. As shown in some embodiments the user may be provided controls for approving or canceling modification to an element or incrementally undoing edits.

As discussed above a user may enter a default width for creation of an image or may create an image with a default width of x or a similar variable. The user may enter an explicit value for the length of the image such as 2 inches or 4 inches or may utilize dynamic length adjustment bands to stretch the image as shown in . Dynamic length adjustment bands may be displayed responsive to a gesture by the user such as a pinch gesture or may be displayed response to selection of a button such as an edit length button. The bands sometimes referred to herein as suspenders may be displayed over the image as shown. The user may drag a band or to enlarge or reduce the image in the corresponding direction. For example the user may select the left band and drag to the left to enlarge the image to the left. The user may also select the left band and drag to the right to reduce the image from the left. Enlarging or reducing the image may result in extending or shrinking the background of the image and or borders and themes associated with the entire image. Elements may be moved within the image rather than being stretched. For example if an image includes a photo of a cat on the left side of the image or label and the user extends the label to the left the photo of the cat may move to the right rather than being stretched out of proportion. Similarly if the label is reduced from the left the photo may move back to the edge of the image. In some embodiments further reduction will result in the photo or element being pushed to the right along with the border of the image while in other embodiments the photo or element will fall off the label and be deleted or moved to a non printing area. The image may be re extended to return the photo or element.

When the image is shown in a fit to length mode as discussed above dragging a band will change the aspect ratio of the image causing the displayed width to enlarge or shrink proportionally. Alternately when the image is shown in a 1 1 scale mode dragging a band or suspender may cause the image and elements of the image to scroll off the screen as discussed above.

As shown in bands and may appear to stretch as the user moves each band providing visual feedback. The speed of enlargement or reduction of the image may be proportional to the amount that a band is pulled or deflected from the default position. This may allow for quick or coarse adjustments and fine adjustments intuitively. As shown in in some embodiments a user may select a resize canvas control to cause bands to appear allowing the user to extend or shrink the length of the label. Similarly once the user selects the control icons may appear to allow the user to select different label widths.

Edited images may be saved to be printed or edited at a later time. illustrates an example of a library selection screen for selecting saved images for editing. Images may be organized in folders manually by the user or dynamically. For example a folder may be dynamically updated with recently edited or printed images or images including a certain element or elements or theme.

Images may be printed either from the editing screen or library selection screen such as by pressing a print button on the printer e.g. print button in or a print button in one of screens or . In instances in which the application is executed by another device such as a tablet computer printing may comprise transmitting the image to the printer. Various protocols may be used including protocols and functions provided by the computer such as Apple s AirPrint for iOS devices. In some embodiments images may be provided to the printer as a bitmap or data file via a representational state transfer REST command such as an HTTP POST command including the bitmap or via another protocol such as internet printing protocol IPP or any other such protocols.

As shown in responsive to a user request to print the image a print screen may be shown. Print screen may allow the user to select a number of copies to print. Print screen may also allow the user to select a print mode or speed such as draft standard or vivid or fine mode. Higher level modes may be slower but have a higher number of pixels per inch or greater color saturation. For example with a direct thermal printer a draft print may be significantly faster but not allow as much energy to be transferred to the medium to fully activate a color forming dye. However this may be adequate for some uses such as temporary coupons or nametags. Print screen may also allow the user to select an option that automatically resizes the image. As discussed herein an image may be created with a predetermined width such as 1 inch. The user may select to print the image without resizing such that for example the image appears with a half inch of space above and below the image when printed on 2 inch media. The user may alternately select to resize the image as shown such that for example the image is doubled in both width and length maintaining the original aspect ratio and proportions of elements within the image.

As shown in in some embodiments printing may include displaying a virtual label corresponding to the real printed label . As the real label is printed the printer may advance the virtual label on the screen such that the virtual label appears to be extended from the media ejection slot of the printer. This may provide a more intuitive indicator of printing progress and remaining time than a progress bar or timer.

It should be understood that the systems described above may provide multiple ones of any or each of those components and these components may be provided on either a standalone machine or in some embodiments on multiple machines in a distributed system. The systems and methods described above may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. In addition the systems and methods described above may be provided as one or more computer readable programs embodied on or in one or more articles of manufacture. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass code or logic accessible from and embedded in one or more computer readable devices firmware programmable logic memory devices e.g. EEPROMs ROMs PROMs RAMs SRAMs etc. hardware e.g. integrated circuit chip Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. electronic devices a computer readable non volatile storage unit e.g. CD ROM floppy disk hard disk drive etc. . The article of manufacture may be accessible from a file server providing access to the computer readable programs via a network transmission line wireless transmission media signals propagating through space radio waves infrared signals etc. The article of manufacture may be a flash memory card or a magnetic tape. The article of manufacture includes hardware logic as well as software or programmable code embedded in a computer readable medium that is executed by a processor. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language such as LISP PERL C C C PROLOG or in any byte code language such as JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more articles of manufacture as object code.

While various embodiments of the methods and systems have been described these embodiments are exemplary and in no way limit the scope of the described methods or systems. Those having skill in the relevant art can effect changes to form and details of the described methods and systems without departing from the broadest scope of the described methods and systems. Thus the scope of the methods and systems described herein should not be limited by any of the exemplary embodiments and should be defined in accordance with the accompanying claims and their equivalents.

