---

title: Cross-enterprise workflow
abstract: Example systems, methods and storage media to provide a cross-enterprise workflow among clinical systems are disclosed. An example cross-enterprise enabled clinical information system includes a workflow manager to coordinate user workflows with respect to the system and associated content. The system includes an image services manager configured to manage images and associated services for the system and associated content. The workflow manager and image services manager are configured for cross-enterprise content sharing such that the system is to locally authenticate a user at the system and the system is to locally authorize a remote request for access to content at the system from a remote user that has been authenticated remotely. The system is arranged to provide content in response to the remote request after the remote authentication has been received and the system has verified the remote user's authorization for access.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276938&OS=09276938&RS=09276938
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09276938
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
Healthcare practitioners may review medical exam results stored in information systems such as hospital information systems HIS radiology information systems RIS clinical information systems CIS cardiovascular information systems CVIS etc. and storage systems such as picture archiving and communication systems PACS library information systems LIS and electronic medical records EMR . Information stored can include patient medication orders medical histories imaging data test results diagnosis information management information and or scheduling information for example. The healthcare practitioners may obtain the information from information systems included in the healthcare environment such as hospitals or clinics in which the practitioner practices e.g. local information systems or from information systems included in other healthcare environment s e.g. foreign or remote information system s .

Example systems methods and tangible computer readable storage media to provide a cross enterprise workflow among clinical systems are disclosed and described.

Certain examples provide a cross enterprise enabled clinical information system. The example system includes a workflow manager to coordinate user workflows with respect to the system and associated content. The example system also includes an image services manager configured to manage images and associated services for the system and associated content. The example workflow manager and image services manager are configured for cross enterprise content sharing such that the system is to locally authenticate a user at the system and the system is to locally authorize a remote request for access to content at the system from a remote user that has been authenticated remotely. The example system is arranged to provide content in response to the remote request after the remote authentication has been received and the system has verified the remote user s authorization for access. At least one of the workflow manager and the image services manager is to provide content to the remote user depending upon a type of requested content.

Certain examples provide a tangible computer readable storage medium including instructions which when executed implement a cross enterprise enabled clinical information system. The example system includes a workflow manager to coordinate user workflows with respect to the system and associated content. The example system also includes an image services manager configured to manage images and associated services for the system and associated content. The example workflow manager and image services manager are configured for cross enterprise content sharing such that the system is to locally authenticate a user at the system and the system is to locally authorize a remote request for access to content at the system from a remote user that has been authenticated remotely. The example system is arranged to provide content in response to the remote request after the remote authentication has been received and the system has verified the remote user s authorization for access. At least one of the workflow manager and the image services manager is to provide content to the remote user depending upon a type of requested content.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain examples of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention certain examples are shown in the drawings. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.

Although the following discloses example methods systems and computer readable media including among other components software and or firmware executed on hardware it should be noted that such methods and apparatus are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware software and firmware components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software or in any combination of hardware and software. Accordingly while the following describes example methods systems and computer readable media persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods systems and computer readable media.

The present disclosure relates generally to healthcare applications and more particularly to methods systems and apparatus to provide integrated workflow and image services via standalone and or cross enterprise system configurations.

Many healthcare environments include radiology information systems to facilitate patient examination and or patient diagnosis. For example a radiology information system in a healthcare system can store radiology reports messages warning alerts patient scheduling information patient demographic data patient tracking information and or physician and patient status monitors.

Typically a medical exam ordered for a patient is assigned to a practitioner e.g. a radiologist to conduct the exam. A medical exam conducted on a patient can involve review by a healthcare practitioner e.g. a radiologist to obtain for example diagnostic information from the exam. In a hospital setting medical exams can be ordered for a plurality of patients all of which involve review by an examining practitioner. Each exam may have associated attributes such as a modality a part of the human body under exam and or an exam priority level related to a patient criticality level. In some examples however not all the information needed for reviewing a medical exam is locally available. For example a practitioner e.g. a radiologist or a technician may want to review information about a patient but the information may be spread across different information systems.

In some systems the practitioner may review printouts of the information from the different information systems. However the printouts may not include up to date information. For example information in an information system may be updated to include a new resting heart rate for the patient. In some systems the practitioner may access the information from the different information systems by manually connecting to each of the necessary information systems. This cumbersome process of logging into an information system whenever information from that information system is needed can cause the practitioner to obtain the information less frequently. Thus the practitioner may review the medical exam or record for the patient with stale information.

In some systems a healthcare institution builds a unified system that includes all the data from the different information systems. For example the unified system can populate the unified system with all the information stored in a first hospital information system a second hospital information system a radiology information system etc. Such unified systems necessitate large databases to store all of the information. Further transforming the information e.g. cleansing reformatting standardizing aggregating and or applying any number of business rules from the different information systems into a single format as needed for the unified system can be impractical. For example each of the different information systems may be controlled by different business rules or service level agreements store the information in different formats include different definitions for optional elements versus required elements etc. In addition if the information is transformed at the unified system returning the data e.g. information updated by the practitioner to the source information system can be unreasonable.

Disclosed and described herein are example systems methods and computer readable media that provide for integration between a radiology information system RIS and a picture archiving and communication system PACS according to a single data schema. A schema is a structure described according to a language and or other format to provide one or more formula format integrity constraint relationship attribute rule etc. to organize relate process and or store information.

Using single schema based integration certain examples facilitate operation with a plurality of workflow back ends. Unlike other solutions which require integration between disparate systems sub systems certain examples abstract and extract domain specific entities into updatable database views. A new application is then constructed on top of this schema. The new application is agnostic to the underlying database structure that belongs to one or more existing products .

Certain examples provide a bolt on approach allowing for immediate use of existing data by the new application without synchronization. Certain examples use Extract Transform Load ETL to extract data from outside sources transform the extracted data to fit operational needs and load the transformed data into an end target data store. Certain examples reduce install upgrade time and service costs by reducing or eliminating ETL in accordance with the single schema. Certain examples facilitate these operations via the new application while the existing base application continues to function as before oblivious to another e.g. competing application e.g. the new application working on the same schema dataset. This allows customers to slowly transition from an existing application to the new and different application while not suffering from data migration to do so.

In certain examples a hospital information system HIS stores medical information such as clinical reports patient information and or administrative information received from for example personnel at a hospital clinic and or a physician s office. A RIS stores information such as for example radiology reports radiology exam image data messages warnings alerts patient scheduling information patient demographic data patient tracking information and or physician and patient status monitors. Additionally the RIS enables exam order entry e.g. ordering an x ray of a patient and image and film tracking e.g. tracking identities of one or more people that have checked out a film . In some examples information in the RIS is formatted according to the HL 7 Health Level Seven clinical communication protocol. In certain examples a medical exam distributor is located in the RIS to facilitate distribution of radiology exams to a radiologist workload for review. In an alternative example the exam distributor can be located separately or can be included in any other suitable device of the healthcare system.

A PACS stores medical images e.g. x rays scans three dimensional renderings etc. as for example digital images in a database or registry. In some examples the medical images are stored in the PACS using the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM format. Images are stored in the PACS by healthcare practitioners e.g. imaging technicians physicians radiologists after a medical imaging of a patient and or are automatically transmitted from medical imaging devices to the PACS for storage. In some examples the PACS can also include a display device and or viewing workstation to enable a healthcare practitioner or provider to communicate with the PACS.

Diagnostic and medical image processing solutions such as PACS and RIS help to drive and support digital images and patient data through improved image storage viewing sharing and retrieval resulting in an improvement in workflow efficiency and productivity. Such improvements are of growing importance as the world population ages and co morbidities increase demand for medical imaging and analytics and a resulting need for image processing and management for large volumes of data.

Additionally PACS have evolved from a tool for medical image viewing distribution and archiving into a system supporting clinical decision making. PACS can include advanced visualization tools voice recognition solutions customized worklists teleradiology cloud based PACS zero footprint viewers and mobile PACS for example. PACS may be integrated with three dimensional 3D 3D visualization maximum intensity projection MIP and multi planar reformation MPR tools for example.

In certain examples Vendor Neutral Archiving VNA can be used in place of and or in addition to a PACS for image archiving and or other storage. Using a VNA a plurality of different PACS and or other different systems can store and retrieve images without translation or transformation at the VNA. An enterprise archive EA can also be used within an enterprise to storage and later retrieve image and or other data for example.

Turning now to the figures illustrates example RIS and PACS providing order lifecycle management via the RIS and image lifecycle management via the PACS . As depicted in the example of the RIS is an order lifecycle management system. That is the RIS is an order filler. The RIS works in an order domain where an order is a center of focus and activity. As depicted in the example of the PACS is an image lifecycle management system. The PACS works in a study domain where an image is a center of focus and activity.

The order and image domains do not overlap and do not compete in a workflow. Rather the domains are complementary and in lock step. A larger departmental workflow encompasses both the RIS and the PACS .

As shown in the example of the RIS documents a patient who has one or more visits that may include one or more exams . One or more actions can be executed and documented with respect to the exam . For example the exam can be billed distributed reported read ordered scheduled patient arrival started completed etc.

As shown in the example of the PACS documents a study including one or more series of one or more images . Each image can be acquired archived made available online deleted etc. via the PACS for example.

By combining and or otherwise tightening a relationship between the RIS and the PACS a usability experience can be improved for a radiologist technologist radiology administrator and so on. Certain examples provide a single e.g. seamless or substantially seamless user interface that allows users to perform their work regardless of whether the work impacts the RIS and or PACS. In certain examples an order lifecycle manager can be provided with an image viewer while image lifecycle management traditionally handled by the PACS is left to an EA.

The order domain model and the image domain model are related by a single relationship between the exam e.g. accession number and the study e.g. study instance unique identification number UID . Further exam and study are related by an M N relationship. One exam can be associated with more than one study and vice versa. A practical relationship is between an exam and one or more series .

The RIS can also include a combination of service oriented architecture SOA business process management BPN and an enterprise service bus ESB for example. Web services can be used provide isolation and or separation between PACS and RIS to reduce the system s regulatory footprint for example. In certain examples a single database schema can be used to support functionality from a PACS that may otherwise be missing in the integrated system including RIS and EA .

Certain examples provide a true combined RIS PACS system. One schema provides one definition of a patient an order a visit etc. that is shared by both RIS and PACS functionality. While prior approaches use different RIS and PACS schema certain examples provide one schema to use with a patient for both PACS and RIS data. Certain examples use a same schema and same middle tier for both RIS and PACS applications. Certain examples leverage the single schema for any combination of RIS PACS RIS PACS worklist etc. as various configurations of the same code.

In certain examples as separate systems are collapsed into a single system performance can be improved in certain areas. For example data can be modeled after caching. Information normally pulled at runtime from different sources can be pulled up from into a digest that is available when needed.

As discussed above and disclosed and described further below one or more of the HIS RIS PACS and or other clinical system can be integrated for single schema operation over multiple back ends. In certain examples each system includes two types of objects as persisted in a database. One type of object is Objects of Domain such patient exam visit etc. which are modeled after one or more real world entities and though an implementation model may vary from system to system the information at a certain abstraction level does not vary with objects of domain. Such objects can be re modeled using updatable views or other such mechanisms. Other objects are Objects of Design that are specific to the functioning of an application. These objects vary from application to application.

Certain examples provide an abstracted data model of a healthcare domain that works on a variety of healthcare information system platforms. Applications can be developed on top of this model allowing deployment of the application with customers running a variety of systems.

Rather than replicating data from one system to another developers can use a consistent data model on top of which to build applications without regard to underlying base system s used. Updates upgrades can thereby be facilitated without downtime and with negligible service cost.

Using existing base tables e.g. domain tables etc. messy synchronization ETL data duplication etc. can be avoided. A database agnostic approach can be provided on multiple platforms while allowing users to retain their current data for example. Using a single schema that holds information of both the RIS and the PACS for both and single middle tier a back end infrastructure can be fused together. Even while the back end infrastructure may be fused together a client side can retain two applications e.g. one for exam ordering and one for exam viewing although a single combined application can be provided instead. In certain examples a combination results in a customer paying only one license fee.

In certain examples the integrated single schema system includes a scalable image service manager ISM that can integrate with a plurality of applications to accommodate scaling of such applications to accommodate and work with a variety of other applications. An imaging connection manager ICM provides a level of abstraction between components such that components can plug and play by communicating with the ICM which identifies and understands the component and in turn communicates with the ISM which remains stable throughout. Thus for example the ICM can retrieve a study from the ISM based on a study identifier ID . At the ISM such interaction to identify a study fetch the study and provide the study to a viewer can be coded according to a standard application programming interface API . On the ICM side the ICM communicates with the ISM and then provides a system application specific connection on the other side e.g. an EA connector a PACS connector etc. to enable access.

Certain examples provide a front end user interface system with an integrated front end but not necessarily a unified back end e.g. disparate systems operating according to a single schema . Certain examples help to facilitate image lifecycle management via the single schema based system in conjunction with an enterprise archive EA DICOM source modality etc.

As shown in the example of a user can access the workflow manager and or imaging services manager via one or more of a radiology reading and reporting viewer e.g. a GE Centricity eRad Cockpit provided by General Electric Company a universal zero footprint viewer a modality viewer e.g. GE Advantage Workstation AWS GE IDI Mammography Workstation etc. third party application etc. The devices can communicate using an application programming interface API such as an image viewer API IVAPI etc. Orders worklist reports etc. can be accessed via the workflow manager while images can be accessed from the imaging services manager . In some examples an image streaming engine facilitates image location and retrieval from the imaging services manager .

For example a user e.g. a radiologist can access his or her radiology review cockpit and launch the universal viewer from the cockpit . The universal viewer can communicate with one or more modality image viewers such as AWS IDI etc. . Using the universal viewer the user can request an image study from the imaging services via the image streaming engine . The imaging services works with the workflow manager via the shared functionality to retrieve and display the requested image study for the user via the viewer . Via the cockpit the user can also retrieve a worklist associated orders etc. and generate a report after reading the study images via the workflow manager . Reports and or associated orders can be retrieved and or stored at one or more RIS databases according to a single common schema .

Additionally the workflow manager can interact with one or more information systems such as an electronic medical record EMR electronic health record EHR hospital information system HIS RIS etc. The imaging services manager can similarly communicate with one or more systems including a PACS EA and or VNA an imaging modality e.g. x ray computed tomography CT mammography magnetic resonance imaging MRI ultrasound position emission tomography PET scanner etc. data storage e.g. network attached storage NAS direct attached storage DAS etc. etc.

Thus in certain examples the integrated system serves as a fully functional RIS with a built in image viewer. In such examples while the example system does not perform image acquisition and archiving the system communicates with an EA and or other image storage for archiving acquisition etc. The imaging services manager provides smart hanging protocols user privileges resources etc. along with images for the universal viewer to function.

In certain examples an imaging connection manager ICM is provided between the imaging services manager and the one or more imaging back ends . ICM connector modules are written for various back end systems including EA PCAS DICOM XDSi third party imaging backends etc. so that intricacies of such connections are abstracted from the rest of the system .

In certain examples image metadata and location can be directly extracted from an EA and or other image store database. The streaming engine can pull images off of the EA cache for display. In certain examples the system queries polls the EA and or other archive for arrival of new studies or changes to existing studies. HL7 messages can be sent back to the EA other image store for patient demographic update for example.

In certain examples native prefetching can be provided to populate an image cache for first image display e.g. in less than two seconds . In other examples a temporary file space can be provided with the system to provide transient storage such that images are stored as temporary files for a fraction of the time it would otherwise take to receive them from a remote DICOM service and pass them to the universal viewer. In certain examples a digest or pre digest is provided to gather or prefetch certain image attributes to determine a first image to be displayed in the system database. A single expanded schema can be used to keep information e.g. image attributes and relationships to speed up first image display time and dynamically query at every request for view for example.

In certain examples the single schema encompasses representations from both EA and RIS as well as supporting functionality data provided by a traditional PACS. Rather than separate RIS and PACS schema that have different formats and are stored and interpreted in different ways one schema provides one definition of a patient an order a visit etc. that is shared by RIS PACS and or other clinical system. A common schema allows multiple systems to look at a patient according to their various data sets e.g. PACS data RIS data etc. using the same interpretation and for example with the same middle tier for formatting analysis etc. . The variety of data for that patient can then be broken down and analyzed from a RIS perspective a PACS perspective an integrated RIS PACS perspective a worklist perspective and or other configuration of the same code for example. Using the single schema a pre digest of information that would otherwise be pulled at runtime from different sources can be gathered and interpreted up front so that it is available when needed or desired. Using a single schema functionality can communicate without using a broker as a translator or intermediary for example.

The schema supports both objects of domain and objects of design. Domain objects can be reconciled into common updatable views based on tables e.g. tables based on domain entities such as patient visit exam master file data etc. . Design objects can often be eliminated from the integrated system due to equivalently functionality already existing in the system. However design objects without an equivalent can be added without conflict. Tables can be created for non domain objects and transactional data such as audit implementation of rules user preferences etc. In certain examples the common schema is based on a RIS schema extended for integrated system features. As such some RIS design objects may be excluded. Using the common integrated schema application developers get a consistent database agnostic data model on top of which to build applications regardless of an underlying RIS e.g. in the case of a bolt on embodiment to an existing RIS etc. for example.

The platform includes a single unified schema used to define organize and store information e.g. whether traditionally RIS data PACS data etc. . The platform also includes an event and audit log access protocol e.g. lightweight directory access protocol LDAP single sign on SSO etc. communications security e.g. Internet Protocol Security IPSec secure sockets layer SSL Internet Protocol version 4 or version 6 IPV4 6 etc. Internet Protocol IP and or other networking services e.g. domain name service DNS dynamic host control protocol DHCP network address translation NAT etc. etc. The elements of the platform provide a base for the architecture and applications that sit on top of the platform to form the example integrated clinical system .

The service oriented architecture and business process management of the example system include a plurality of services to drive applications and access for example. For example the SOA BPM provides smart hanging protocol and study file loading display arrangement services to arrange and display one or more images in a study along with associated tools settings etc. . Additionally analytics services smart worklist services result distribution services collaboration services order and workflow management services etc. are provided to facilitate processing of an image and associated data management of exams in a worklist to be read distributing of reports and or other results collaboration and or other consultation for review generating of orders etc. Further content and functionality can be regulated through security and access control services . Hierarchy and relationships can be governed through multi tenancy and multi organization services . Licensing constraints and rights can also be managed . Image s and or other data can be pre fetched .

Profiling and study edit services can also be provided to a user. For example a VNA can interact with the XDS DICOM and profile study edit services when receiving image data from a source such as from a PACS directly from an imaging modality etc. In certain examples an image cache can be provided in the integrated system to communicate with a third party VNA and or PACS as well as XDS DICOM profile study edit services and prefetch for image retrieval and temporary storage. In certain examples a VNA serves as the image cache.

Communications and image information sharing can be facilitated through HL7 messaging services PIX source and consumer services XDS and DICOM services etc. For example HL7 messaging can be used to transmit data with an external information system such as an EMR EHR HIS RIS etc.

Using the ADF one or more applications such as a smart worklist image display e.g. two dimensional 2D and or three dimensional 3D etc. desktop integration API etc. can be provided. In certain examples external modality systems e.g. AWS IDI etc. and or applications e.g. third party applications voice recognition etc. can interface with the desktop integration API for example. Applications can also include master file and or system administration order entry and management dictation reporting patient jacket e.g. single patient jacket operations dashboard key performance indicators KPIs collaboration quality control study management etc.

Certain examples provide a scalable system to accommodate a variety of healthcare institutions providers and to help ensure high availability of the system to its users e.g. always on zero downtime upgrade zero data loss automated failover data replication e.g. lossless replication etc. disaster recovery etc. .

In certain examples one or more integrated systems can be provided and or can communicate across multiple healthcare enterprises. Certain examples provide cross enterprise or supra enterprise communication collaboration and information sharing to provide access but retain ownership and or control of data. For example an entity s workload can be shared across competitors while enabling that entity to retain control of its customer base but still provide access to but retain control over relevant records. In some examples collaboration may be facilitated between different legal entities with different systems for example. In certain examples a user from a local system trying to access data and or functionality from a remote system can be authenticated by the local system and authorized by the remote system.

Certain examples support cross enterprise informational constructs such as a single global patient jacket across multiple institutions a global reading worklist for a radiologist etc. as well as facilitating reporting into a system from which an exam being read originated. Certain examples facilitate cross enterprise interaction without a common master file across participating enterprises but with for example a master patient index MPI and without data duplication e.g. a single system of record .

In certain examples a cross enterprise arrangement is decentralized to allow participants to allow and or restrict people requests etc. according to one or more local rules procedures preferences etc. A user s local system can be responsible for authentication is this user who he claims to be while a target local and or remote system may be responsible for authorization does this user have an ability to do X Y Z in my system . In this way existing enterprise organizations can be leveraged into a cross enterprise framework without further change.

For example a trusted enterprise can reach out to a local machine and its agent can verify that a user from the trusted enterprise has access. For example this user is from enterprise A and this user wants to access certain images from a machine in enterprise C. Enterprise A authenticates the user and enterprise C authorizes the access access control is in the hands of enterprise C . Thus certain examples facilitate authentication of a user at the remote home system for the user but authorize access for the user locally at the system in question. By allowing each user s system to handle authentication and each data application s system to handle authorization for access to its application data certain examples allow for multi technology users e.g. different and competing technology stacks can be used together and cross application communication.

Further certain examples facilitate easy transitions for enterprises coming into or going out of cross enterprise sharing. For example a user in enterprise A does not need to know anything about users in enterprise C. Enterprise A can set its own rules about users and can revoke and or change rules users etc. at any time without interference from another enterprise. If enterprise C leaves the collaboration then enterprise C can shut down the external trust previously given to enterprise A and other collaborating enterprises so that enterprise C then treats those enterprises as if it does not know them.

Certain examples help reduce implementation time and complexity e.g. an implementation time of zero by leveraging existing infrastructure and or capability e.g. LDAP authentication mechanism already built in to local enterprise versus a centralized authentication authorization approach which requires enterprises to maintain their list of users both locally and with respect to the central server . With a centralized approach if a user is disabled locally but not centrally that user still has access as far as the central authority is concerned with decentralized collaboration the user has to ask the local enterprise.

In certain examples radiology tasks can be organized in a single intelligent workflow to collaboratively deliver more efficient patient care and improved utilization of imaging resources. Certain examples facilitate automatic prioritization of studies across an enterprise based on a radiologist worklist based on the skill sub specialty experience and service level agreements and so on. Certain examples help to enhance virtual collaboration between radiologists referring physicians and other specialists to improve confidence in diagnostic findings. Certain examples enable distributed radiologists to share reading workload for studies performed at other locations. Certain examples provide a workflow enabled comprehensive solution to image management reporting and analytics to help drive patient care. Certain examples provide native tag morphing to optimize or otherwise improve image sharing and workflows via a diagnostic viewer. Certain examples facilitate enterprise and community wide collaboration e.g. via a cloud based and or other server based infrastructure etc. .

Alternatively or in addition the viewer can get image data from one or more image streaming engines . A first image streaming engine is located at the remote enterprise with access to retrieve the requested image data from an EA . A second image streaming engine is located at local enterprise A with access to retrieve the image data from an EA .

In certain examples a directory service such as Microsoft Active Directory for user authentication and authorization can be added to cross enterprise configurations to provide better control by individual enterprises over their data and its access. The directory service or SSO access control can be used to authenticate between enterprises without password exchange resulting in better security. Web services which enable multi threaded processing at lower latency than direct SQL can be used instead of direct SQL for example to create a reading worklist patient jacket etc. Remote web services can be used to get data instead of directly opening remote portlets within an ADF. Data can be collected from remote systems by a local system and presented from the local system. Cache optimizations can improve data retrieval lower latency and reduce network interruptions for example.

In certain examples an exam object includes information such as patient name patient identifier s visit identifier date s etc. These are transactional elements largely unique to the exam. In addition MFD is attached to the exam such as in which facility and department the exam was performed a name of a procedure performed CT CHEST attending physician dictating physician etc.

MFD represents a minimum set of data that defines a healthcare enterprise including its enterprise structure such as names of facilities departments locations etc. found in the enterprise names of procedures performed and users and their groups for example. However remote MFD is not applicable to the local site. Yet in certain examples a remote exam includes MFD information as part of its definition. In certain examples MFD can be duplicated in a local system. Alternatively or in addition reporting on a report exam in the remote system eliminates a need to duplicate MFD in the local system. Instead the application bypasses the local system and fetches data from and updates the remote system directly for example.

In certain examples additional privileges and or filters can be introduced confidential patient anonymization etc. in a service layer. Privileges can be rule based e.g. time of day modality type specialty etc. for example and can be tied into the unread exams list that is returned to the requesting user. Filters can be controlled by the particular enterprise that owns the order for the global reading list for example. In certain examples a radiology workstation can pull data from remote systems for remote exams using Web services for display via the local radiology workstation.

In certain examples an alternative design uses a central orchestrator including automated configuration of a grid of cross enterprise entities according to a cross enterprise fabric manager XFM . Worklist jacket data can be cached using a coherence based cross enterprise caching appliance XCA in addition to an imaging cache appliance ICA for pre fetch. An imaging traffic director ITD can be used to route to a fastest path to images e.g. remote system backup data center XCA etc. Certain examples provide high availability scalability fault tolerance application service provider model remote archive enhanced serviceability etc. As shown in an example cross enterprise grid configuration retains a de centralized locally access controlled data environment but adds a federal oversight and or control. The example grid configuration provides federal control via an XFM ITD XCA and ICA at a centralized node while each individual enterprise node A E retains its own XCA ICA and active directory services.

In certain examples cross enterprise data use and data access can be separated by a shim layer designed to help ensure compatibility between systems applications etc. For example a shim can be implemented as a library that transparently intercepts an API and changes parameters passed handles operations and or redirects operations to help ensure compatibility between different systems platforms versions etc.

Certain examples leverage a cross enterprise integrated implementation to provide a single patient jacket which facilitates a single view of patient data across multiple imaging back ends and or multiple enterprises. The single patient jacket enables a user participating in the cross enterprise exchange to have a broad view of the patient through a single interface application via the single patient jacket and integrated clinical system e.g. rather than disconnected information and limited patient data .

Local priors are retrieved via the priors service from a local PACS which can include an image management system IMS and short term storage STS for example. The IMS can include a database storing persistent data for exams images etc. stored in the PACS . The STS can be used to store images temporarily in a fast disk based cache as opposed to long term on a tape library for example.

Remote priors are requested using the XFS which communicates with one or more participating remote VNVs . Each remote VNV includes its own XFS priors service and associated storage e.g. EA IMS PACS DICOM from which to identify and if applicable retrieve priors e.g. based on availability authentication authorization etc. . As depicted in the example of the XFS receives a request to get priors and alternatively or in addition getting an associated study file getting a historical reporting getting exam notes etc. as well as authentication and authorization of the requesting user enterprise. Retrieved priors are then sent back to the requesting XFS and or access to the remote priors is provided for display via the viewer .

The viewer contacts the local study file service to get study file content for display including local and remote study file content where applicable. Local study file content is retrieved via the priors service from a local PACS which can include an image management system IMS and short term storage STS for example.

Remote priors are requested using the XFS which communicates with one or more participating remote VNVs . Each remote VNV includes its own XFS study file service and associated storage e.g. EA IMS PACS DICOM from which to identify and if applicable retrieve study file information e.g. based on availability authentication authorization etc. . As depicted in the example of the XFS receives a request for study metadata for which it contacts its study file service to retrieve study information from the EA . Retrieved study information is then sent back to the requesting XFS and or access to the remote study data is provided for display via the viewer as part of the global study file.

The viewer contacts the local image streaming engine to get local image content for display which is retrieved from a local PACS which can include an image management system IMS and short term storage STS for example.

Remote image s are requested by the viewer using the streaming engine proxy which communicates with one or more participating remote VNVs . Each remote VNV includes its own image streaming engine and associated storage e.g. EA STS PACS DICOM from which to identify and if applicable retrieve image s e.g. based on availability authentication authorization etc. . As depicted in the example of the image streaming engine receives a request for an image which it retrieves from the EA provides to the proxy and or otherwise enables access to the remote image via the viewer .

Certain examples facilitate deployment of an integrated gross enterprise solution in one or more ways. For example cross enterprise global reading may be delivered only to other participating integrated systems. All participating enterprises run their workflow and imaging using the integrated clinical information system solution.

Alternatively or in addition one or more integrated systems can front non integrated workflow and or imaging systems such that participating integrated enterprises can continue to run legacy systems for workflow and imaging while networking cross enterprise using the integrated systems. In certain examples no MFD synch up is required over the cross enterprise grid to allow the various types of systems to inter operate. No patient order or image data is stored permanently outside of the enterprise from which it originated. Variation in capability of external RIS PACS and or other system can be handled at a local enterprise level.

Thus data duplication can be avoided between enterprises in the cross enterprise framework while individual enterprises retain complete control over security access patient and exam data etc. Enterprises have freedom to join and leave the cross enterprise arrangement without leaving behind traces of local enterprise data for example.

While example implementations are disclosed and described above with respect to one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further one or more elements of systems and configurations disclosed and described herein may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example elements shown in can be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example components is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still example systems and configurations may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

As mentioned above the example process es of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example process es of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and to exclude transmission media. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

Although the following examples are described in conjunction with the example systems and configurations of the example method may be used in conjunction with other information systems. illustrates a flow diagram of an example method to facilitate cross enterprise access to information and functionality while maintain separation and control between enterprises by distinguishing between local and remote references.

At block content is requested via a clinical viewer. For example a user at a clinical viewer can select an exam from his or her worklist to open a study file retrieve one or more exams schedule an appointment read and report on an image etc. At block one or more appropriate target systems are identified as at least potential source s for the requested content. For example a manager service proxy and or director associated with a local system identifies one or more remote systems connected through the cross enterprise which instead of or in addition to the local system include information relevant to the request.

At block the requesting user is authenticated at the local system. For example using Active Directory SSO LDAP etc. the local system verifies that the requesting user is who he she it says it is. If the requesting user is validated then at block a target system local and or remote identified as including relevant information verifies that the authenticated requesting user is authorized to obtain view access etc. that information at its system. Thus a user who has been authenticated is verified by a remote system to confirm that such a user or that particular user in fact is authorized e.g. has permission to access the information e.g. receive it view it interact with it etc. .

If the authenticated user is authorized then at block the requested content is identified at the target system. For example one or more services proxy etc. at a target system determine whether or not the relevant content e.g. data application other functionality etc. is in fact found at the target system. If so then at block the user at the local system accesses the requested content via the target system. Thus if the requested data and or functionality is found at the local system then the data is displayed and or application is executed by the user at the local system. If however the requested data and or functionality is found at a remote system then the data is displayed and or application is executed at the remote system but provided to the user via the local viewer. Thus rather than creating local copies and or providing content for local viewing interaction execution the requested action can occur on the content s native system local and or remote allowing the host system to maintain control while still facilitating sharing and collaboration cross enterprise. At block an outcome is displayed at the local system while any effect occurs at the target system. Thus as described above while the user sees the requested content and or a result of interaction with that content at his her its local system any update modification or effect occurs at the content s host system which may be the user s local system and or a remote system that is part of the cross enterprise configuration. At block the process can repeat according to a number of identified target systems.

The processor platform of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions e.g. of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

