---

title: Electronically conducting metal oxide nanoparticles and films for optical sensing applications
abstract: The disclosure relates to a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition by contacting a conducting oxide material with a monitored stream, illuminating the conducting oxide material with incident light, collecting exiting light, monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light, and detecting a shift in the optical signal. The conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10/cm, a bandgap of at least 2 eV, and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S/cm, where parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature. The optical response of the conducting oxide materials is proposed to result from the high carrier concentration and electronic conductivity of the conducting metal oxide, and the resulting impact of changing gas atmospheres on that relatively high carrier concentration and electronic conductivity. These changes in effective carrier densities and electronic conductivity of conducting metal oxide films and nanoparticles are postulated to be responsible for the change in measured optical absorption associated with free carriers. Exemplary conducting metal oxides include but are not limited to Al-doped ZnO, Sn-doped InO, Nb-doped TiO, and F-doped SnO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08836945&OS=08836945&RS=08836945
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08836945
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This patent application claims priority from nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 927 223 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 638 440 filed Jun. 26 2013 and provisional application 61 762 426 filed Feb. 8 2013 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments relates to a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition by contacting an electronically conducting oxide material with a gas stream at a temperature of at least 100 C. illuminating the conducting oxide material and detecting a shift in the optical signal. The conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 CM a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm where parameters are specified at the temperature of the gas stream to be monitored.

Improved sensors are needed that can operate in harsh environments for the next generation of technologies for higher efficiency lower emission fossil fueled power plants including oxy fuel combustion processes for carbon capture and sequestration and coal gasification to produce syngas which can be converted to electrical power using solid oxide fuel cells or gas turbines. Improved harsh environment sensors and controls would also enable significant gains in energy efficiency for the existing fleet of coal fired power plants and a number of major domestic manufacturing industries. In particular chemical sensors capable of operating at elevated temperatures in highly reducing oxidizing and or corrosive environments can be leveraged across a broad range of applications including coal gasification combustion turbines solid oxide fuel cells and advanced boiler systems.

Optical sensors are of increasing interest for a wide range of embedded sensing applications due to a number of inherent advantages as compared to other sensor technologies including the ability to monitor several different optical properties of a selected sensing material transmission reflection luminescence . However an indirect relationship between electrical and optical properties of most metal oxide based films implies that the large body of existing work on semiconducting materials for chemi resistive based gas sensing applications provides only limited guidance for development of sensor materials for optical sensing applications. Material systems with useful optical responses specifically tailored for the application of interest will therefore be required.

Metal oxides such as WOhave been utilized as optical sensors for Hwhile other metal oxides such as NiO and CoOhave been explored for optical sensing of reducing gases such as CO. However these materials suffer from limited temperature stability in highly reducing conditions and typical dynamic ranges of measured output signals based on absorbance or reflectance have limited their practical use in a gas sensing instrument. See e.g. Ando Recent advances in optochemical sensors for the detection of H O O CO CO and HO in air 25 10 2006 see also Korotcenkov Metal oxides for solid state gas sensors What determines our choice 139 2007 . Incorporation of noble metals such as gold nanoparticles into these metal oxides has generally been employed to enable responses that are suitable for practical gas sensing. See e.g. Schleunitz et al. Optical gas sensitivity of a metal oxide multilayer system with gold nano clusters 127 2007 see also Gaspera et al. CO optical sensing properties of nanocrystalline ZnO Au films Effect of doping with transition metal ions 161 2012 see also Gaspera et al. Enhanced optical and electrical gas sensing response of sol gel based NiO Au and ZnO Au nanostructured thin films Sensors and Actuators B 164 2012 and see Ando et al. Combined effects of small gold particles on the optical gas sensing by transition metal oxide films 36 1997 . In other cases metal oxides such as ZnO with various dopants have been utilized and absorbance changes have been noted for gases such as ammonia methanol and ethanol however the mechanism has generally been attributed to the adsorption of oxygen molecules at the metal oxide surface and the dopant was utilized to enhance catalytic activity and correspondingly measurement temperatures have been limited to below about 100 C. The time constants for the measured responses also tend to be prohibitively long such that they are not practical for a gas sensing device. See e.g. Renganathan et al. Gas sensing properties of a clad modified fiber optic sensor with Ce Li and Al doped nanocrystalline zinc oxides 156 2011 . Dopants such as CuO have also been employed with metal oxides such as ZrOin order to provide sensing through reversible red ox reactions however such approaches can suffer from instability under high temperature and or high reducing agent concentrations. See e.g. Remmel et al. Investigation on nanocrystalline copper doped zirconia thin films for optical sensing of carbon monoxide at high temperature 160 2011 .

Weak dynamic range of optical responses of high temperature stable metal oxides to changing gas atmospheres has generally required investigators to amplify the response by applying them to optical fibers with fiber bragg gratings. By periodically modifying the refractive index of the core of the optical fiber the interaction with a sensing layer can be enhanced by orders of magnitude. However fiber bragg gratings exhibit an inherent temperature instability above 500 C. regardless of the sensing layer employed and increase the cost and complexity of a sensor device. See e.g. Tang et al. Acidic ZSM 5 zeolite coated long period fiber grating for optical sensing of ammonia 21 2011 see also Jiang et al. Multilayer fiber optic sensors for in situ gas monitoring in harsh environments 177 2013 see also Wei et al Terbium doped strontium cerate enabled long period fiber gratings for high temperature sensing of hydrogen 152 2011 see also Remmel et al. Investigation on nanocrystalline copper doped zirconia thin films for optical sensing of carbon monoxide at high temperature 160 2011 .

It would be advantageous to provide a method of improving optical responsesof metal oxides to changes in chemical compositions without resort to incorporation of noble metals such as gold platinum and silver and to mitigate the need for advanced sensor designs such as those employing fiber bragg gratings. It would be particularly advantageous if the method of improvement remained effective or even further improved at higher temperatures in order to avoid the low temperature limitations associated with alternate methodologies. It would be further advantageous if the increased response of the metal oxide material could be brought about by relatively well understood processes such as doping and demonstrated reversibility under high temperature conditions of interest.

Presented here is a method of detecting changes in the chemical composition of a gaseous stream by utilizing the optical response of conducting oxide material having a relatively high carrier concentration. The optical response of the conducting metal oxide materials disclosed are believed to stem predominantly from alterations to the carrier concentration that occur within changing gas atmospheres at elevated temperatures. By suitable selection of dopants in conjunction with high temperature stable metal oxides the surprisingly effective method utilized within this disclosure provides a means whereby conducting metal oxides having relatively high carrier concentrations are employed to generate improved signals under gaseous atmospheres which experience varying concentrations of reducing and oxidizing agents.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The disclosure provides a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition of a gas stream through the generally described steps of i placing a conducting oxide material comprising a conducting metal oxide in the gas stream where the gas stream is at a temperature of at least 100 C. ii contacting the conducting oxide material with a monitored stream comprising some portion of the gas stream iii illuminating the conducting oxide material with incident light iv collecting exiting light transmitted reflected scattered or a combination thereof by the conducting oxide material v monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy and vi detecting a shift in the optical signal thereby detecting the change in the chemical composition.

The conducting metal oxide has an empirical formula MOwhere M is at least a first element and O is an oxygen anion and where the conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the temperature of the gas stream to be sensed. In an embodiment M is at least a first element and a second element and the conducting metal oxide has the empirical formula ABO. In a further embodiment the first element the second element and the oxygen anion form a recognized crystalline structure with a lattice system and M and the oxygen anion are located at one of the special positions of the crystalline lattice. Exemplary conducting metal oxides include but are not limited to AZO ZnAlO ITO InSnO F doped SnO and Nb doped TiO TiNbO . In another embodiment the conducting metal oxide is a non stoichiometric metal oxide such as InOin which the dopant can be considered to be a vacancy on the oxygen sublattice or some other defect that is responsible for the non stoichiometry.

The optical response of the conducting oxide materials results from the high carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide and the resulting impact of changing gas atmospheres on that relatively high carrier concentration. These changes in effective carrier densities of conducting metal oxide nanoparticles are postulated to be the predominant mechanism responsible for the change in measured optical absorption associated with free carriers. This surprising discovery is utilized to provide a means whereby conducting metal oxides having relatively high carrier concentrations can be employed to generate useful signals indicating alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere based on resulting shifts in the optical signal.

The optical response of the conducting oxide material is demonstrated to be relatively temperature dependent and generally applies for temperatures of at least 100 C. In an embodiment the monitored stream has a temperature of at least 200 C. In a further embodiment the monitored stream has a temperature of at least 200 C. and the change in the chemical composition is indicated by an increase or decrease in a signal averaged optical signal of at least 0.1 . The optical response of the conducting oxide material is additionally demonstrated to be monotonic relative to the concentration of a reducing or oxidizing gas. In an embodiment the conducting oxide material is utilized in a method for monitoring the concentration of a chemical species.

Measured optical responses of conducting oxide materials have been observed to be significantly impacted by the degree of light scattering by the material. Light scattering is well known to be related to the degree of surface or interface roughness in the case of fairly dense and continuous thin films and particle size in the case of nanoparticle based films. In addition the amount of light scattering is dependent upon the wavelength of interrogation and the optical constants of the conducting oxide material. In particular surface roughnesses of continuous films greater than approximately 5 nm 10 nm or 50 nm can cause a significant degree of light scattering in the UV visible and near IR wavelength ranges with increasing surface roughnesses causing increased light scattering. Similarly particle sizes of nanoparticle based films greater than approximately 10 nm 20 nm or 50 nm in diameter can also cause a significant degree of light scattering in the UV visible and near IR wavelength ranges. In general increasing surface roughnesses tend to cause increased light scattering at a given wavelength. In some cases it has been experimentally observed and theoretically shown that enhanced scattering can result in larger optical signal shifts and even change the sign of the shift over certain wavelength ranges as compared to relatively smooth films comprising conducting metal oxides that do not exhibit measurable light scattering. This observation is typically attributed to an enhanced dependence of the optical signal on the real part of the dielectric constant of the conducting metal oxide.

In the case of the conducting oxide materials discussed here the electrical resistivity of the conducting oxide material is generally believed to be directly correlated with the corresponding optical properties. As such the useful optical responses that can be obtained in this class of materials can enable sensors that allow for gas composition to be monitored through both electrical and optical interrogation methods. The method disclosed here employs optical interrogation methods but it should be understood that in some embodiments the electronic e.g. resistivity properties of the conducting metal oxide may also be monitored simultaneously.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a method for detecting a change in the chemical composition of a gas stream using the optical response of a conducting oxide material.

The disclosure provides a method for sensing changes to a chemical composition of a gas stream by utilizing a shift in the optical signal generated by a conducting oxide material having a relatively high carrier concentration. This disclosure utilizes the surprising impact of carrier concentration increases on the optical signals generated and specifies a manner in which the optical signal of the conducting oxide material may serve as an indication of changing gas atmospheres. The impact of alterations to the carrier concentration of a material on resulting optical signals generated within a gaseous atmosphere is a surprising recognition. See Ohodnicki et al. Plasmonic Transparent Conducting Metal Oxide Nanoparticles and Nanoparticle Films for Optical Sensing Applications 2013 doi 10.1016 j.tsf.2013.04.145. This disclosure provides a method by which this surprising effect may be utilized in order to measurably detect alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere by utilizing conducting metal oxides with sufficiently high carrier concentrations such that the altered optical signal is measurably impacted.

The conducting oxide material comprises a conducting metal oxide where the conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm where the parameters are measured at the gas stream temperature. The carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide is preferably at least 10 cm more preferably at least 10 cm. The electronic conductivity is preferably at least 10S cm more preferably at least 10S cm and most preferably at least 10S cm. The conducting metal oxide is a compound having the empirical formula MOwhere M is at least a first element and O is an oxygen anion. In the most preferred embodiments the conducting metal oxide thus has the general properties associated with that group of materials known generically as transparent conducting oxides. In an embodiment M is at least a first element and a second element and the conducting metal oxide has the empirical formula ABO where A is the first element B is the second element and O is an oxygen anion. In a further embodiment the conducting metal oxide has the empirical formula ABO. Exemplary conducting metal oxides include but are not limited to AZO ZnAlO ITO InSnO Nb doped TiO TiNbO and F doped SnO. In an additional embodiment the first element is a metal within groups 2 15 and the second element is a metal within groups 3 14. In another embodiment the second element is F or Cl. In a further embodiment the first element the second element and the oxygen anion form a crystalline structure having a lattice system such as cubic hexagonal tetragonal rhombohedral orthorhombic monoclinic or triclinic and M and the oxygen anion are located at special positions within the lattice. See e.g. J. N. Lalena et al. 2Ed. 2010 . In another embodiment the second element is a cation or an anion within the crystalline structure of the conducting metal oxide. In a further embodiment the second element comprises less than 15 weight percent wt. of the conducting metal oxide.

In another embodiment the conducting metal oxide is a non stoichiometric metal oxide having a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm where parameters are specified at at the gas stream temperature. The carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide is preferably at least 10 cm more preferably at least 10 cm. The electronic conductivity is preferably at least 10S cm more preferably at least 10S cm even more preferably at least 10S cm and most preferably at least 10S cm. The non stoichiometric oxide may be for example of anion vacancy type cation vacancy type anion interstitial type or cation interstitial type as those terms are used in the art. See e.g. R. Xu et al. 2011 among others. Here non stoichiometric oxide means a metal oxide having the elemental composition MOwhere M is at least a first element and O is an oxygen anion and M and O are not combined in a definite proportion. In an embodiment the non stoichiometric oxide has an elemental composition MO where M is at least the first element O is the oxygen anion c and d are natural numbers and x is greater than 0.001 preferably greater than 0.01.

As indicated the method disclosed is based in part on the recognition that alterations to the carrier concentration of a material impact the resulting optical signals generated and that conducting metal oxides with sufficiently high carrier concentrations are particularly effective for the measurable detection of alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere. Correspondingly conducting metal oxides suitable for the method disclosed are described in terms of the physical parameters possessed by the conducting metal oxide such as a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm. As is understood in the art for a given metal oxide these physical parameters may be manipulated by various physical processes such as annealing treatments certain manners of deposition and other means. These parameters may also vary with the composition of the gas stream to be sensed at a fixed temperature. See e.g Chen et al. Influence of Hydrogen on Al doped ZnO Thin Films in the Process of Deposition and Annealing 10 3 2009 see also Ota et al. Fabrication of indium tin oxide films by dip coating process using ethanol solution of chlorides and surfactants 411 2002 see also Shigeno et al. Formation of indium tin oxide films by dip coating process using indium dipropionate monohydroxide 411 2002 among others. Correspondingly when this disclosure describes a conducting metal oxide where the conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature this is not intended to limit the conducting metal oxide to those materials which display those parameters under all conditions and following all treatments. Rather the method disclosed herein is intended to apply specifically when a conducting metal oxide meets those conditions regardless of whether those parameters can be manipulated by other processes existing outside this disclosure.

In a particular embodiment the conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature and the conducting metal oxide comprises a base oxide and a dopant where the base oxide is one of SnO ZnO InO TiO CeO CoO FeO CdO TaO WO YO ZrO LaO SrTiO CaO AlOLaSrO IrO MoO GaO or SbO and where the dopant is at least one of Al In S Zn Ti Ce Sc Ga Nb Sb Ta Ni Co Fe Mn Si P F and B.

In an embodiment the conducting metal oxide has a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm were parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature following an elevated temperature reducing treatment. Here elevated temperature reducing treatment means a treatment whereby the conducting oxide material is contacted with gaseous mixture having a composition of 4 vol. H balance where the gaseous mixture is at a temperature of at least 100 C. and where the contact occurs for a period of at least one hour. Such elevated reducing temperature treatments are generally effective for n type conducting metal oxides. Alternatively in an embodiment the conducting metal oxide is a p type conducting metal oxide and the parameters are specified at the gas stream temperature following an elevated temperature oxidizing treatment. Here elevated temperature oxidizing treatment means a treatment whereby the conducting oxide material is contacted with a gaseous mixture having a composition of 20 vol. O balance N where the gaseous mixture is at a temperature of at least 100 C. and where the contact occurs for a period of at least one hour. The respective elevated temperature treatments may occur during the fabrication of the conducting oxide material or as a post fabrication annealing process. In these embodiments the phrases following an elevated temperature reducing treatment and following an elevated temperature oxidizing treatment is not intended to imply that the specific temperature treatments themselves are required as a limitation within the method of this disclosure. Rather the phrases are utilized herein merely as a specific means by which the conducting oxide materials of this disclosure may be identified.

The conducting oxide material may be utilized for sensing the change in the chemical composition of the gas stream at temperatures greater than about 100 C. based on the impact of the chemical composition on the free carrier concentration of the conducting oxide material. Changes to the free carrier concentration directly impact the optical properties of the conducting oxide material which may be ascertained by monitoring optical transmission reflection scattering and absorption spectra of the conducting oxide material as ambient gas atmospheres are altered.

The basic principles of the method are illustrated at . At light from light source is directed along an optical fiber and focused by lens producing incident light illuminating conducting oxide material . Concurrently exiting light is collected behind the specimen using a probe connected to a spectrophotometer . Data generated by spectrophotometer or supporting equipment is processed and an optical signal is displayed. The optical signal is a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light and indicates the absorption transmission reflection and scattering of the incident light at certain wavelengths by conducting oxide material .

Conducting oxide material is additionally in contact with a monitored stream G. Monitored stream G is at a gas stream temperature greater than 100 C. and comprised of a chemical composition of gaseous constituents with concentrations that may vary over time. In an embodiment monitored stream G is periodically comprised of reducing species such as H CO NH hydrocarbons or mixtures thereof. As discussed conducting oxide material comprises a conducting metal oxide having a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. In an embodiment the conducting oxide material is a conducting oxide such as aluminum doped zinc oxide AZO indium tin oxide ITO Nb doped TiOand others.

Incident light exiting light and conducting oxide material generate an optical signal which depends on the chemical composition of monitored stream G and shifts in the optical signal at monitored wavelengths are indicative of a change in the chemical composition. As an example represents exemplary optical signals expected for a conducting oxide material comprising AZO when the AZO conducting oxide material is illuminated by incident light and exposed to a monitored stream at a gas stream temperature. As indicated the particular optical signals at represent an absorbance over a band of wavelengths. Optical signal is expected when the monitored stream contacting the conducting oxide material is comprised of air with a substantial absence of H. In contrast when the chemical composition of the monitored stream changes such that the monitored stream comprises about 4 H remainder N the optical signal is expected to alter to optical signal exhibiting a pronounced shift within the range of about 350 nm to about 550 nm as illustrated. Similarly illustrates the optical signals and over a wider wavelength range as optical signal and optical signal respectively. Comparison of optical signals and clearly indicate a shift in the optical characteristic at longer wavelengths for the AZO gas sensing oxide when the monitored stream is altered from air to a composition of 4 H remainder N.

As indicate monitoring the optical signal over one or more wavelengths when the conducting oxide material in is contact with a monitored stream provides a means by which the chemical composition of the monitored stream may be evaluated. The optical signal may be monitored directly through broadband wavelength interrogation and appropriate fitting procedures or through indirect measurements by monitoring film transmittance reflectance scattering or absorptance at one or more selected wavelength s . For example at a shift in the optical signal may be detected by monitoring at the specific wavelength and interpreting an increase in the absorption measured such as as indicative of a shift from optical signal to optical signal . In an embodiment the shift in the optical signal is an increase or decrease in a signal averaged transmittance reflectance absorptance or scattering at a selected wavelength of at least 0.1 .

The disclosure thus provides a method of detecting a change in a chemical composition of a gas stream through the generally described steps of i placing a conducting oxide material comprising a conducting metal oxide in a gas stream where the gas stream has a gas stream temperature and where the gas stream temperature is at least 100 C. and where the conducting oxide material comprises a conducting metal oxide having a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. ii contacting the conducting oxide material with a monitored stream comprising some portion of the gas stream iii illuminating the conducting oxide material with incident light iv collecting exiting light transmitted reflected or a combination thereof by the conducting oxide material v monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy and vi detecting a shift in the optical signal thereby detecting the change in the chemical composition.

As discussed the conducting metal oxide has an empirical formula MO where M is at least a first element and O is an oxygen anion. Exemplary conducting metal oxides include but are not limited to AZO ZnAlO ITO InSnO Nb doped TiO TiNbO and F doped SnO. In an embodiment where M is a first element and a second element the second element comprises less than 15 wt. of the conducting metal oxide.

The conducting metal oxide may comprise the conducting oxide material in conjunction with a combination of other materials however the primary response observed monitored and discussed herein is the response of the conducting metal oxide to the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream. In an embodiment the conducting oxide material is a mixture of compounds and the conducting metal oxide comprises at least 25 wt. and preferably 50 wt. of the conducting oxide material. In another embodiment the conducting oxide material is characterized by less than 1 wt. less than 0.1 wt. or undetectable noble metal deposits. Here a noble metal deposit means a deposit in contact with the conducting oxide material where one or more noble metals comprise at least 90 wt. of the noble metal deposit and where the noble metal deposit is not a cation or anion of the MOconducting metal oxide and are not located at a special position of the MOlattice structure. Noble metals within this context include gold silver platinum palladium ruthenium rhodium osmium and iridium. In a further embodiment the conducting oxide material comprises less than 1 wt. less than 0.1 wt. or undetectable gold silver or palladium.

Within this disclosure optical signal means a comparison of light incident on the conducting oxide material and light exiting the conducting oxide material at one or more wavelengths using optical spectroscopy. The optical signal may be expressed as for example a transmittance at the one or more wavelengths an absorption at the one or more wavelengths or any other parameters which indicate the absorption transmission reflection scattering or other optical impacts on the incident light as a result of interaction with the conducting oxide material. As is understood optical spectroscopy based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light may indicate the absorption transmission reflection scattering and optical impacts which occur as a result of interaction between the incident light and the conducting oxide material. See e.g. Ingle James D. and Stanley R. Crouch Englewood Cliffs N.J. Prentice Hall 1988 see also Sole Jose 2005 see also Sarid Dror and Challener William 2010 among others.

Within this disclosure a shift in the optical signal means a variation between a first optical signal and a second optical signal at one or more wavelengths where the first optical signal is generated at a first time and the second optical signal is generated at a second time and where both the first optical signal and the second optical signal are generated by illuminating the conducting oxide material with the light source emitting the incident light collecting the exiting light and comparing the incident light and the exiting light using optical spectroscopy. The shift in the optical signal may be recognized by detecting a variation between optical signals at any monitored wavelength or by variations at multiple wavelengths over a band of wavelengths. For example the variation may be detected by monitoring a transmittance at a specific wavelength the specific wavelength of an optical signal edge within a specified wave length range the wavelength of an optical signal local maxima a variation in the optical signal breadth a variation in the optical signal amplitude a variation in the optical signal full width at half maximum FWHM or any other techniques which may serve to indicate a variation between the first optical signal and a second optical signal. In an embodiment the shift in the optical signal means a variation of at least 0.1 between a first time averaged optical signal and a second time averaged optical signal in either transmittance absorption or reflectance at a specific wavelength.

The shift in the optical signal as disclosed here is generally not constrained to a specific wavelength or band of wavelengths. As discussed the shift in optical signal may be a shift at one specific wavelength or may be a shift over a monitored band of wavelengths. For example the shift may occur at one or more wavelengths typically considered to be ultraviolet visible or infrared as those terms are used in the art.

Without being bound by theory the optical response of the conducting oxide materials achieved within this disclosure is believed to result from the high carrier concentration of the metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material and a resulting impact on that relatively high carrier concentration by changing gas atmospheres. It is known that certain metal oxides such as TiO ZnO and SnOexhibit changes in electrical resistance as a function of temperature and or in response to changing gas atmospheres which is usually associated with a change in the free carrier density of the oxide. Additionally for conducting metal oxides such as AZO a strong dependence of electrical resistance and carrier concentration on ambient atmospheric conditions at high temperatures is also expected. See e.g. Sagar et al Influence of hydrogen incorporation in sol gel derived aluminum doped ZnO thin films 2005 and see Pearton et al. Recent progress in processing and properties of ZnO 2005 . Within this disclosure these changes in effective carrier densities of conducting metal oxide nanoparticles in response to changing ambient gas atmospheres are postulated to be responsible for the change in measured optical absorption associated with free carriers. This surprising discovery is utilized within this disclosure to provide a means whereby conducting metal oxides having relatively high carrier concentrations can be employed to generate useful signals indicating alterations in a surrounding gas atmosphere based on resulting shifts in the optical signal.

As an example of the impact of carrier concentration on the optical signal simulated effects of changing a carrier concentration N on the measured optical absorption of AZO nanoparticles are illustrated at . Similar results are presented at for a continuous and dense 200 nm thin film of AZO. The impact of a change in the carrier concentration N on the absorption cross section was approximated by modifying empirical optical constants as follows 1 the effective carrier concentration N was increased or decreased by 30 from a nominal value and 2 the bandgap parameter employed in the interband electronic transitions dielectric function was allowed to vary according to the well known Burstein Moss shift. At a nominal carrier concentration N a 30 increase in the carrier concentration N and a 30 decrease in the carrier concentration N is illustrated as curve curve and curve respectively. At a nominal carrier concentration N a 30 increase in the carrier concentration N and a 30 decrease in the carrier concentration N is illustrated as curve curve and curve respectively. The simulated results clearly illustrate a shift of the LSPR absorption peak nanoparticles or the onset of free carrier absorption dense thin films to shorter wavelengths with an increase in the carrier concentration N. The assumed shift also results in the prediction of a measurable change in optical absorptance in the vicinity of the band edge due to the Burstein Moss effect. See Ohodnicki et al. 2013 .

As a further example represents optical signals and generated by a conducting oxide material of AZO where the AZO is a 1 Al ZnO sol gel film illuminated by incident light and exposed to monitored streams at a gas stream temperature of about 400 C. Optical signals and are illustrated over a wider wavelength range at as optical signals and respectively. At optical signal illustrates transmission and represents the optical signal when the monitored stream consists of N. Similarly optical signal illustrates transmission and represents the optical signal when the monitored stream consists of a mixture of 4 Hwith background N. As indicated the optical signal of the AZO conducting oxide material shifts on exposure to Hand indicates increased transmission compared to the previous environment of N2 for a fixed wavelength. Additionally optical signal edges for the respective optical signals are illustrated generally as point on optical signal and point on optical signal where points and represent about a 15 transmission. As shown exposure of the AZO conducting oxide material to a reducing atmosphere of Hshifts the optical signal edge to a shorter wavelength. The shift of the optical signal edge from point to point is indicative of the shift in the optical signal of the AZO conducting oxide material.

Correspondingly in an embodiment the exiting light collected after illumination of the conducting oxide material with incident light has a optical signal edge between 250 and 600 nanometers and the shift in the optical signal is represented by a shift in the band edge. In a further embodiment the change in the chemical composition is an increased concentration of a reducing gas and the shift in the optical signal edge is a shift to a lower wavelength.

Within this disclosure a optical signal edge when specified as present within a described wave length range means a specific wavelength where a specified percentage of the incident light is transmitted through the conducting oxide material. For example points and at a specified percentage of about 15 within a wavelength range from about 385 nm to about 405 nm at . Similarly a shift in the optical signal edge means a wavelength difference between a first wavelength and a second wavelength where the specified percentage of the incident light is transmitted absorbed reflected or scattered through the conducting oxide material at both the first wavelength and the second wavelength. For example at a shift in the optical signal edge which occurs at the specified percentage of about 15 at . However within this disclosure an optical signal edge may be defined using any percentage as the specified percentage and any range as the described wave length range. For example at an optical signal edge might be defined by points and at a specified percentage of 20 over a wavelength range from 750 nm to 2250 nm and a shift in the optical signal edge from point to point might be similarly described. In an embodiment the optical signal edge occurs over a wavelength range from 250 nm to 550 nm. In another embodiment the optical signal edge occurs over a wavelength range from 1000 nm to 3750 nm.

At the elapsed time between given time points tand tare generally on the order of 30 minutes. As can be observed the shift in the optical signal generated by the conducting oxide material is generally a reversible phenomena as noted by the return towards previous levels of transmission between times tto t tto t tto t tto t tto t tto t and greater than t when the Hand CO are removed and the atmosphere is returned to N. This reversibility provides clear advantage in an instrument intended to sense changes in a chemical composition when concentrations are expected to vary periodically. Additionally the optical signals display a monotonic behavior with magnitudes dependent on the specific concentration of the gaseous constituent present. In the case of H this can be observed by comparison of the transmission levels between times tto t tto and tto twhen the atmosphere is 1 vol. H 2 vol. H and 4 vol. Hrespectively where the transmission levels are seen to increase with increasing concentrations of H. Similarly in the case of CO this is observed by comparison of the transmission levels between times tto t tto t and tto t when the atmosphere is 1 vol. CO 5 vol. CO and 10 vol. CO respectively and where the transmission levels are seen to increase with increasing concentrations of CO.

Further at optical signal is indicated as a transmittance response versus time at a wavelength of 400 nm under the same conditions as optical signal except that the monitored stream is at a gas stream temperature of about 200 C. As illustrated by the comparison of optical signals and shifts in optical signal of the metal oxide sensing material in response to varying gas concentrations generally become more pronounced as temperature is increased as will be discussed.

The impact of utilizing a doped oxide in order to increase the carrier concentration and form a conducting oxide material and thereby increase or make measurable a shift in optical signal as gas atmospheres are altered at a gas stream temperature of 400 C. is demonstrated at . reproduces optical signal for the 1 Al ZnO sol gel film as optical signal and similarly illustrates the monitored stream of Nbackground with periodically increasing concentrations of CO and H as discussed and indicated for . additionally illustrates the response in optical signal for an undoped film comprising zinc oxide ZnO shown as optical signal . As illustrated under the same conditions and in comparison to optical signal the optical signal generated by undoped ZnO provides no apparent response to the changes in the chemical composition. At the increase in the carrier concentration afforded by providing a doped metal oxide as the gas sensing material allows the optical signal generated to be utilized as a gas sensing mechanism.

In an embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is indicated by an increase or decrease in a signal averaged optical signal of at least 0.1 where the signal averaged optical signal is generated through a signal processing technique applied in the time domain and where the increase or decrease of 0.1 means that an observed signal averaged optical signal is at least 0.1 greater or lesser than an initial signal averaged optical signal. For example an increase or decrease of 0.1 in an observed signal averaged optical signal when the signal averaged optical signal is a transmittance or absorptance characterized as I Ior A I I Irespectively where Iis the intensity of the incident light and where I is the intensity of the exiting light at a wavelength and where intensity refers to a power transmitted per unit area. In an embodiment the signal averaged optical signal is a time averaged optical signal based on an absorption transmission scattering or reflection generated using the conducting oxide material and averaged over some time interval t. As an example represents time averaged optical signals for the optical signals and of at the wavelength of 400 nm. indicates the times tand tof and additionally includes tand t where tis a midpoint time between tand tof and tis midpoint time between tand tof . Time averaged optical signals and represent optical signal averaged over the time interval from tto t tto t and tto trespectively and generally indicate shifts in time averaged optical signals of at least a 0.1 change in transmission in response to the changing chemical compositions between times tand t. Additionally illustrated for reference are time averaged optical signals and representing optical signal averaged over the time intervals tto t tto t and tto trespectively and illustrating no apparent response in the time averaged optical signal when the sensing material is an undoped ZnO. Techniques for the generation of signal averaged optical signals are known in the art. See e.g. R. Lyons 3Ed. 2010 and see R. Northrup 2005 among others.

Additionally as previously mentioned shifts in optical signal of the metal oxide sensing material in response to varying gas concentrations generally become more pronounced as gas stream temperatures are increased. The impact of temperature on the response of the conducting oxide material is further illustrated at and . and illustrate optical signals generated using a conducting oxide material comprising 1 Al ZnO where the conducting oxide material was coated on an optical fiber as will be discussed. The AZO coated optical fiber was subjected to a series of gas concentrations at varying temperatures and transmissions at 475 nm 750 nm and 2400 nm were monitored.

Similarly illustrates transmission for the AZO coated optical fiber monitored at 750 nm. Optical signal corresponds to a gas stream temperature of 400 C. optical signal corresponds to a gas stream temperature of 300 C. and optical signal corresponds to a gas stream temperature of 200 C. The atmosphere between tto t tto t and to twas N while the atmosphere between tto twas 4 vol. H background N between tand twas 4 H 5 vol. O background N and between tand twas 10 vol. CO background N. At there is an increase in the transmission for the 300 C. optical signal and 400 C. optical signal gas stream temperatures when the AZO coated optical fiber is exposed to a reducing gas but a measurable response is not clearly resolved for the 200 C. test optical signal and additionally no response was observed at room temperature. Possibly broadband transmission increase responses in the visible and near IR range for AZO films on planar substrates and AZO coated fiber sensors can be attributed to changes in the real part of the dielectric constant of AZO over this wavelength range due to the change in free carrier density. As discussed previously this effect can also be enhanced in some cases due to surface roughness which causes scattering of light.

As a result of the temperature dependence discussed above and illustrated at and when utilizing the conducting oxide material to detect the changing chemical composition of a monitored stream based on shift in the optical signal the disclosed method specifies a gas stream temperature of the monitored stream of at least 100 C. Additionally in an embodiment the gas stream temperature is at least 200 C. In a further embodiment the monitored stream has a gas stream temperature of at least 200 C. and the change in the chemical composition is indicated by an increase or decrease in a signal averaged optical signal of at least 0.1 where the signal averaged optical signal is characterized as I I or A I I I as previously discussed. In a further embodiment the monitored stream has a gas stream temperature greater than 400 C. and the conducting metal oxide is a conducting metal oxide having a temperature programmed reduction temperature of at least 400 C.

In an embodiment the change in the electronic properties of the conducting oxide material are measured in addition to the optical response according to the previously described method as illustrated at for a 5 at Nb doped TiOfilm. illustrates the electrical signal shifts in the conducting metal oxide in response to changing gas atmospheres at a gas stream temperature of 650 C. as trace where from about 42 minutes to about 62 minutes the atmosphere was 1 vol. H background N from about 85 minutes to about 110 minutes the atmosphere was 2 vol. H background N from about 136 minutes to about 150 minutes the atmosphere was 4 vol. H background N and where at the other times of the atmosphere was N. illustrates the optical signal shifts in the conducting metal oxide in response to changing gas atmospheres at wavelengths of 2100 nm trace and 2500 nm trace where from 5.5 to 6.0 hours the atmosphere was 1 vol. H background N from 6.5 to 7.0 hours the atmosphere was 2 vol. H background N from 7.5 to 8.0 hours the atmosphere was 4 vol. H background N and where at the other times of the atmosphere was N. At the data reported clearly shows that both the resistivity and the optical transmittance of the film respond to changes in chemical composition and can be potentially monitored simultaneously. By monitoring both parameters complementary information may be derived that can improve the overall accuracy and functionality of a sensor device.

In an embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of a reducing gas. Here reducing gas means a gaseous constituent that alters the carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material as a result of contact between the gaseous constituent and the conducting metal oxide. For example when the conducting metal oxide is an n type oxide the reducing gas might be expected to increase the carrier concentration. Exemplary reducing gases include H CO ammonia H and hydrocarbons e.g. fuel gases such as methane ethane among others. In another embodiment the change in the chemical composition of the monitored stream is an increased concentration of an oxidizing gas where oxidizing gas means a gaseous constituent altering the carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material as a result of contact between the gaseous constituent and the metal oxide. For example when the conducting metal oxide is an n type oxide the oxidizing gas might be expected to decrease the carrier concentration. Exemplary oxidizing gases include O O NOx SOx halogens e.g. F l r and I halogen compounds sulfuric acids HO HSO and HO nitric acid and nitrate compounds among others. The impact of a reducing or oxidizing gas on the carrier concentration of the conducting metal oxide may be determined by any means known in the art such as a Hall effect measurement. See e.g. Ramsden Edward Ed. 2006 among others.

The conducting oxide material may be in the form of dispersed nanoparticles an aggregate nanoparticle film or a largely dense and continuous film. When the conducting oxide material is in the form of dispersed nanoparticles or an aggregate nanoparticle film this means that a plurality of particles comprise the conducting oxide material and that some portion of the conducting metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material comprises each particle in the plurality. In an embodiment the plurality of nanoparticles has a Sauter mean diameter of less than 100 micron. The Sauter mean diameter may be determined by means known in the art. See e.g. Rhodes Martin 2ed. 2008 . Additionally when the conducting oxide material is in the form of dispersed nanoparticles this means that the plurality of nanoparticles are sufficiently separated such that the plurality of nanoparticles displays an electrical conductance of less than 1 10th of the electrical conductance of the metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material. Such a condition can be determined using various methods for the evaluation of proximity to a percolation limit in supported nanoparticle systems. See e.g. Trudeau et al. Competitive transport and percolation in disordered arrays of molecularly linked Au nanoparticles . Vol. 117 2002 among others. Further when the conducting oxide material is in the form of an aggregate nanoparticle film this means the plurality of nanoparticles displays an electrical conductance of at least 1 10th of the electrical conductance of the metal oxide comprising the conducting oxide material and that a given volume containing the plurality of nanoparticles has a void fraction of at least 20 . Void fraction may be determined using means known in the art. See e.g. Yancey et al. The influence of void space on antireflection coatings of silica nanoparticle self assembled films 99 2006 and associated references. When the conducting oxide material is in the form of a continuous film this means that a given volume containing the conducting oxide material has a void fraction of less than 20 . Additionally it is understood that the nanoparticles of this disclosure are not limited to strictly spherical shapes and that a plurality of nanoparticles may take shapes such as triangular prisms disks shells wires rods and others.

The conducting oxide material utilized in the method of this disclosure may be prepared using means known in the art for the production of dispersed nanoparticles aggregate nanoparticle film or a continuous films as disclosed herein. See e.g. Ohodnicki et al. Plasmonic Transparent Conducting Metal Oxide Nanoparticles and Nanoparticle Films for Optical Sensing Applications 2013 doi 10.1016 j.tsf.2013.04.145 among others.

At the monitored stream G is some portion of a gas stream. In an embodiment the gas stream and the monitored stream are separated by a barrier layer such as a dense filter layer to act as a diffusion barrier or a sieve material having an average pore size that is tailored to improve selectivity. Such an arrangement may be helpful when the gas stream is comprised of a molecular constituent which may need to be excluded from influencing the sensing operation. For example a sieve material may be utilized to exclude the molecular constituent from the monitored stream by selecting a sieve material having an average pore size less than the molecular diameter of the molecular constituent to be excluded. Exemplary sieves include aluminosilicate minerals clays porous glasses microporous charcoals zeolites active carbons or synthetic compounds which display a standardized average pore size such as pore size 3 A pore size 4 A etc. In a similar manner the dense filter layer can be selected such that the diffusion of a species to be excluded is relatively sluggish. For example exemplary filters might include films comprised of SnO SiO Palladium alloys and others materials known for the selective filtering of hydrogen in an operation where the conducting oxide material is utilized to detect changes in an Hconcentration. An appropriately defined barrier layer can also protect the underlying gas oxide sensing material from the presence of particulates and undesirable corrosive species that may have a deleterious effect on long term stability of the gas oxide sensing material. In an embodiment a first surface of the barrier material is contacted with the gas stream and the monitored stream is withdrawn from a second surface of the barrier material.

In another embodiment the conducting oxide material is illuminated by a wave propagating along a waveguide such as a fiber optic cable. This particular embodiment is illustrated at . The waveguide is comprised of a core material in contact with a cladding material where core material has a refractive index greater than cladding material . For example core material and cladding material may be comprised of silica and various additions such as germanium titanium phosphorous boron fluorine or other dopants in order to alter the respective refractive indices and meet the necessary criteria. At light source emits visible light into core material generating wave penetrating cladding material . At conducting oxide material having the properties disclosed is placed in contact with core material such that conducting oxide material is illuminated by wave as illustrated. Conducting oxide material is additionally in contact with monitored stream G comprised of gaseous constituents. In an embodiment monitored stream G has a temperature greater than about 200 C. Exiting light is collected by probe . Interaction of conducting oxide material with monitored stream G and illumination by wave enables detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream G by detecting a shift in the optical signal as earlier described.

In another embodiment the monotonic response of the conducting oxide material displayed in response to increasing or decreasing concentrations of chemical species is utilized in a method of determining the concentration of a chemical species in a monitored stream. In this embodiment the conducting oxide material comprises a sensing head in a sensing instrument where the sensing head communicates with an interrogator and a metered response is provided. The methodology is represented at where the conducting oxide material of this disclosure comprises sensing head in contact with monitored stream G. Monitored stream G is at a temperature greater than 100 C. and comprised of a chemical composition of gaseous constituents with concentrations varying over time. Interrogator illuminates the conducting metal oxide comprising sensing head with incident light and gathers exiting light. Interrogator compares the incident light and the exiting light and generates a measurand where the measurand is proportional to a shift in the optical signal as defined herein. Such interrogators for use in optical systems are known the art. See e.g. Lee et al. Review of the present status of optical fiber sensors 9 2003 and associated references. Interrogator is in data communication with meter which provides an indication of the magnitude of the measurand generated and communicated by interrogator . The monotonic response of the conducting oxide material to increasing or decreasing concentrations of a chemical species in monitored stream G allows the measurand generated by interrogator and interpreted for display by meter to provide an indication of the concentration of the chemical species present. For example utilizing the method illustrated at for a monitored stream G experiencing the transient concentrations discussed for optical signal at a measurand generated by interrogator immediately prior to time t where the monitored stream consists of 4 H2 N2 background would have an absolute magnitude greater than a measurand generated by interrogator immediately prior to time t where the monitored stream consists of 2 H2 N2 background. Correspondingly the display provided by meter and noted at time tand twould serve as an indication of the differing magnitudes of the respective measurands. In this embodiment the steps of illuminating the gas sensing oxide material collecting exiting light and monitoring an optical signal based on a comparison of the incident light and the exiting light is conducted by interrogator and detecting a shift in the optical signal is conducted through observation of meter . An indication of the concentration of the chemical species present in monitored stream G is provided by comparison of the observed meter reading and a reference meter reading where the reference meter reading results from a reference measurand generated under reference conditions for example when monitored stream G consists solely of the background N or some other condition.

Thus provided here is a method for detecting a change in the chemical composition of monitored stream which utilizes changes in the optical signal generated by a conducting oxide material. The conducting oxide material comprises a metal oxide having a carrier concentration of at least 10 cm a bandgap of at least 2 eV and an electronic conductivity of at least 10S cm at the gas stream temperature. In an embodiment the metal oxide is a conducting metal oxide and M comprises at least a first element and a second element bonded with the oxygen anion. Exemplary conducting metal oxides include but are not limited to AZO ZnAlO and ITO InSnO Nb doped TiO2 TiNbO and F doped SnO. Changes in the chemical composition of a monitored stream in contact with the conducting oxide material are detected based on a shift in the optical signal generated through comparison of incident and exiting light using optical spectroscopy. In a specific embodiment the conducting oxide material is illuminated by light propagating along a waveguide such as a fiber optic core material. The method is particularly useful for monitoring the chemical composition of gaseous streams at elevated temperatures.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

