---

title: Disabling operation of features on a mobile communication device based upon location
abstract: Methods and devices for implementing subsystem or functional aspect restrictions on a wireless handheld communication device. Data defining geographical boundaries of a restricted operating area is stored on the device. The present position of the device is ascertained and a determination is made whether the device is located within the restricted operating area. A restriction on the subsystem or functional aspect is imposed when it is determined the device is within the restricted operating area. The subsystem or functional aspect restriction can be communicated to the device via a wireless communication network. Additionally, the restrictions and boundaries can be communicated to the device as part of an IT security policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154913&OS=09154913&RS=09154913
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09154913
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130722
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 081 645 which was a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 469 524 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 933 611

The present disclosure is directed toward a wireless handheld communication device and more particularly to controlling a camera module on the device using restrictions within defined geographical boundaries.

With the advent of more robust wireless communications systems compatible handheld communication devices are becoming more prevalent as well as advanced. In a broader sense these devices are referred to as handheld electronic devices which include devices without communication functions. Where in the past such handheld communication devices typically accommodated either voice cell phones or text transmission pagers and PDAs today s consumer often demands a combination device capable of performing both types of transmissions including sending and receiving e mail. The suppliers of such mobile communication devices and underlying service providers are anxious to meet these demands but the combination of voice and textual messaging as well as other functionalities such as those found in PDAs have caused designers to have to improve the means by which information is input into the devices by the user as well as provide better facilitation for the user to navigate within the menus and icon presentations necessary for efficient user interface with these more complicated devices.

Due to recent advances in technology digital camera components are now small enough to be placed inside handheld communication devices so that the devices are able to take and store digital pictures. The addition of a digital camera to these devices has proven to be quite popular among the general population. However many corporations and governmental agencies are wary of small portable cameras like those provided by these devices.

Camera lenses are commonly made of glass or plastic. They are used to direct beams of light onto the image sensor. The aperture which is controlled automatically in most digital cameras controls the amount of light that passes through the lens to the image sensor. The digital shutter regulates the image sensor s exposure to light. Specifically the digital shutter simply turns off the image sensor essentially serving to close the shutter and thus eliminating the need for the moving parts found in an analog camera. However some digital cameras supplement a digital shutter with a mechanical shutter.

The focal length of a digital camera is determined by the image sensor s size and the distance from the lens to the subject to be photographed. As the image sensor gets smaller the focal length will also be reduced. Similarly as the camera nears the subject to be photographed the focal length will also be reduced. The focal length of the lens is usually adjustable to a limited extent. In digital cameras the adjustability of the focal length is described as the optical zoom of the camera.

In a digital camera the image sensor is typically either a CCD charge coupled device or a CMOS complimentary metal oxide semiconductor sensor. Both of these sensors transform the light information into electrical signals.

The resolution of the images produced by the image sensor is defined in terms of pixels or megapixels which is approximately one million pixels. More pixels enable the camera to produce pictures of higher resolution. For a 4 6 picture a two megapixel digital camera produces an image that is comparable to a standard 35 mm camera. Similarly for a 8 10 picture a three megapixel digital camera produces an image that is comparable to a standard 35 mm camera.

The electric signals produced by the image sensor are sent to the microprocessor where they are processed and configured to be stored in an electronic format. Picture formats include TIFF JPEG and other familiar types. The picture can then be saved to a fixed storage device inside the camera or a removable storage device associated with the camera. Examples of storage devices are on board flash memory compact flash memory cards and secure digital SD cards. Picture files are normally compressed by software to increase available storage space.

The display for a digital camera is commonly a LCD liquid crystal display . The display can be used to preview the scene before taking the photograph as well to show pictures stored on the camera or associated storage device. The display also normally facilitates user configuration of camera settings. Specifically the user typically utilizes buttons or controls on the device housing to navigate the graphical user interface of the camera.

All of the components of a digital camera can be located within the housing of a handheld electronic device thereby expanding the device s functionality to include photography. The pictures taken with these devices are generally stored onto a fixed memory within the device. Other devices make use of the removable memory options typically used to store pictures in digital cameras.

Portable cameras can be used to take pictures of confidential documents classified research prototypes and other confidential subject matter. The pictures can then be stored on the device and subsequently transmitted wirelessly. Thus confidential material can be improperly divulged and or used for improper purposes. The ubiquitous presence of handheld communication devices in the business environment makes it difficult for businesses to control their use. The present disclosure is directed to a security system that can be utilized to disable certain features of the devices such as an associated camera. Additionally the present disclosure presents a way for an administrator to control certain device functionality on a geographical basis.

As intimated hereinabove one of the more important aspects of the handheld electronic device to which this disclosure is directed is its size. While some users will grasp the device in both hands it is intended that a predominance of users will cradle the device in one hand in such a manner that input and control over the device can be affected using the thumb of the same hand in which the device is held. Therefore the size of the device must be kept relatively small of its dimensions limiting the width of the device is most important with respect to assuring cradleability in a user s hand. Moreover it is preferred that the width of the device be maintained at less than ten centimeters approximately four inches . Keeping the device within these dimensional limits provides a hand cradleable unit that users prefer for its useability and portability. Limitations with respect to the height length of the device are less stringent since more importance is placed on maintaining the device s hand cradleablability. Therefore in order to gain greater size the device can be advantageously configured so that its height is greater than its width but still remain easily supported and operated in one hand.

Users have indicated a preference for handheld devices that also feature a digital camera in addition to voice and data communication functionality. Digital cameras operate along similar principles as their analog counter parts. Digital cameras are comprised of a lens an image capture device a microprocessor to process the image a storage device to store images and a screen to display images. Traditionally a multitude of buttons and switches located on the camera housing provided the user with the controls to take pictures adjust camera settings and manipulate the stored pictures. A dedicated camera control button is preferably provided on the housing of the handheld device to provide quick access to the program for controlling the camera. Further details regarding components and operation of the camera camera module will be explained later in this description.

The description below mentions several terms that are considered known to those skilled in the art. Several examples are discussed in the description thereby disclosing more specific examples of the terms used herein.

When a camera is incorporated into a handheld communication device there is a potential for carrying the device into places where photography is prohibited. Methods and apparatus are presented herein that impose a camera or other functionality restriction on the device while it is located within such a restricted area. Furthermore an administrative policy is described such that the functionality of a handheld device is limited based upon administer settings for the handheld device.

In addition to the digital camera the handheld communication device can include memory a position determiner a controller and preferably a configuration signal receiver. The memory of the device is capable of storing various types of data including data defining geographic boundaries of a restricted area and data defining a restriction imposed on the wireless handheld communication device relative to the restricted area. The information stored in memory can be received wirelessly downloaded through a specialized port or preloaded on the device. The position determiner typically receives satellite based information that defines a present geographical position of the device and the position information can be used to determine whether the device is presently located in the restricted area based on a comparison to geographical boundaries of restricted areas stored in memory. The controller adapts the functionality of the device based on the determination of whether the device is presently located in the restricted area. Preferably a configuration signal receiver is also located within the device that receives configuration data from an enterprise administrator. This configuration data received from the enterprise administrator is preferably the geographical boundaries of the restricted areas and is stored in memory. Furthermore the controller can disable the camera camera module when the device has been determined to be located in the restricted area.

In another embodiment the handheld communication device with an incorporated camera includes a processing means memory means position determining means and control means. The processing means allows for receiving processing and outputting electronic data and for outputting control signals. One example of possible processing means includes a microprocessor. The processor means is also capable of performing management tasks related to the various components and attachments to the device including communication subsystems and the display.

The memory means stores data that defines geographical boundaries of a restricted operating area and data that defines a restriction that is selectively imposed on the wireless handheld communication device based on whether the device is located in the restricted area. These restrictions can be established by implementing an IT policy at an organizational level group level or individual user level. The restrictions can be modified by an administrator or other person with the authority to change the policy settings on the IT policy server. Examples of memory means include a flash memory device a read only memory device and a random access memory device. Furthermore the memory means is capable of storing additional information that is described below in greater detail in relation to including programs application data address books identification information device state IT policy information connection information and other personal information management PIM .

The position determining means for ascertaining a present geographical position of the device utilizing satellite derived information and determining whether the device is presently located in the restricted operating area based on comparison to geographical boundaries of the restricted operating area stored in memory. The position determining means for ascertaining the present geographical position is preferably based on the global positioning system GPS . Other systems that function similarly are also described later.

The control means imposes the defined camera restriction on the device when it is determined that the device is presently located in the restricted area.

In another embodiment a method for remotely implementing an administrative policy on a wireless handheld having an incorporated camera is presented. The method involves storing data at the wireless handheld communication device that defines geographical boundaries of a restricted operating area of the device ascertaining a present geographical position of the device utilizing satellite derived information and determining whether the device is presently located in the restricted operating area based on a comparison to the stored geographical boundaries of the restricted operating area and imposing a restriction on the device when it is determined that the device is presently located in the restricted area. Additionally the data defining the restrictions to be imposed can be stored on the wireless handheld communication device. These restrictions are to be imposed when the device is located in the restricted area. Furthermore the wireless handheld communication device receives data that defines geographical boundaries of a restricted operating area of the device. The above described elements can be combined together to produce different variations of methods to restrict the operation of the device.

The above described device restrictions can be a number of different device restrictions. For example it is desirable to restrict the use of a camera the communication network on which the device is capable of operating ringers removable media speaker phone e mail programs downloading of data short range communication ports or the like. While the restrictions maybe described in relation to the camera other restrictions can be substituted for the camera including the above listed subsystems or functional aspects of the handheld device.

As previously described it is desirable for certain individuals or organizations to restrict the operation of a camera that is mounted on or connected to a handheld mobile communication device. Exemplarily embodiments of the handheld device and associated components camera and communication with a satellite can be seen in and . In a preferred embodiment the digital camera or one of the above described functions is restricted based upon the geographical location of the device. Data regarding the restricted operating area or zone is stored on the device. This data is preferably received via a wireless communication network as shown in . However it is also possible that the data for the restricted zone is received while the device is connected to a cradle. This data preferably defines a set of geographical boundaries within which camera restriction is desired. This data delimiting the geographical boundaries is preferably defined in terms of coordinates. Other data may be used to define the geographical boundaries as is desired in order to effectively process the data received by the handheld from a positioning system. Preferably the position is determined via satellite data but the position can also be determined using data received from the communication network upon which the device is operating.

As depicted in the device is capable of receiving data transmitted via satellite to determine position. The satellite is preferably a GPS satellite yet in other embodiments the satellite can be another type of satellite such as a GLONASS Global Orbiting Navigation Satellite System satellite equipped to transmit data to a receiver for determination of position information. The data transmitted by the satellite relates to time information which can be used by the processor of a receiving device to determine position. In order to obtain an accurate position determination data from four different satellites is preferred while position information can be obtained if only three satellites are able to transmit data. Other positioning systems may use a similar or different satellite configuration requirement than the GPS system. One skilled in the art would be able to make the necessary adaptations to allow the device to function with the appropriate satellite system. Additionally other variants of GPS such as differential GPS and WAAS Wide Area Augmentation System allow for greater accuracy in position determination through the use of additional data. Preferably the determination of the location of the device is made using a specially designed processor for position determination. This position information can be in turn relayed or transmitted to the main device processor for display purposes or other control purposes.

Additionally the location of a handheld communication device can be determined by using the wireless network infrastructure . If the device is in an area of coverage such that three transmitters of the wireless network can communicate with the device a triangulation method of device location may be implemented. Other techniques for locating the handheld communication device using communication network transmissions for position determination of the device are also considered within the scope of this disclosure and are easily appreciated by those persons skilled in these arts.

An administrator or user of the device can store data defining the geographical boundaries of the restricted area using current position information on the device. This enables a user or administrator to walk or otherwise move about the periphery of around the restricted premises or area to define the boundary of the restricted zone. As the user walks the perimeter boundary location coordinates can be generated using the device and which define the geographical boundary of the restricted area. The boundary location coordinates are obtained by positioning or holding the handheld device at a particular location proximate to the geographical boundary and defining the location as a set of coordinates or other location data as part of the saved data. The user or administrator can store multiple locations to create a fence using the defined geographical locations. Alternatively the geographical locations can be used to define entry points to a building or premises. An administrator can use the device as a way of setting the geographical boundaries of a restricted area that is to be used in the course of establishing special IT policies relative to the defined area. Once the data defining the geographical boundary has been stored on the device the data can be transmitted to a control server. The control server can be enabled to distribute the stored data to other wireless handheld communication devices as part of an applied administrative or IT policy. The data can be transmitted to the devices through a variety of different ways but it is preferably wirelessly transmitted to the devices. Further the distributing transmission can be made as part of an administrative or IT policy as will be described in greater detail herein below.

Once the position of the device has been determined its location in relation to the geographical boundaries of the restricted operating area is determined. As exemplarily shown in the device is located within a restricted zone . In a preferred embodiment a position determiner is implemented to receive satellite based information that defines a present geographical position of the device and determine if the device is located in the restricted area based on a comparison to geographical boundaries of the restricted area stored in memory. The information regarding the position of the device is preferably processed by a specially designed circuit as previously described. Then this data is used by the position determiner to determine the location of the device with respect to the restricted area zone . The determination of the relative position of the device can be made on a continuous basis or at predefined intervals in order to optimize battery life of the device . While the device is located within the restricted area a controller adapts the functionality of the camera based on the imposed camera restriction.

The camera restrictions are preferably set by an administrator and these restrictions can be aimed at different aspects or levels of functionality. One restriction would be complete disablement of the camera . Disablement of the camera can be handled by restrictive software associated with the camera . When a user attempts to access the camera function a message can be displayed on the screen indicating to the user that the device is inside a restricted area . In another embodiment the restriction is a temporary disablement of the camera . This temporary disablement can be designed such that the camera is disabled for a predetermined period of time. This arrangement can be used in situations in which the user is attending a meeting being held in a restricted area for a certain period of time. Once the time elapses and the user will have presumably left the restricted meeting area then the ability to use the camera is allowed to return to its normal state of operation. This prevents the need for resending additional information over the wireless communication network to allow camera operation. For example the predetermined time can be a set real time or an elapsed period of time. Another restriction that can be placed on the camera is that a source identifying watermark can be embedded in the digital image taken with the camera. This identifying watermark can include a device serial number a telephone number associated with the device carrier identification information or the like so as to positively identify the device and probable user associated with the picture. Other camera restrictions are possible such as prohibition of flash photography and limiting focal distance among others.

Instead of restricting the operation of a camera other device restrictions may be imposed. For example an organization may wish to restrict the operation of the device such that it would only enable operation on a local network such as Wi Fi connection in the organizations facilities and prevent the device from communicating via other communication networks such as the wide area network such as the cellular network. Likewise certain restrictions can be imposed on sending and receiving data. If the requested amount of data exceeds a predetermined amount set by administrator or if the data application itself is determined by an administrator to be too data intensive the device will prohibit the access to the data until an acceptable connection can be made such as the organization s Wi Fi connection. Furthermore an organization may wish to disable certain device functions such as e mail messaging programs ringers games or other annoying functions during scheduled meetings. Additionally the organization might wish to limit access to removable media encrypt data on removable media disable speaker phone capability disable BLUETOOTH communications or other similar functions based upon organizational policies.

As previously mentioned the data defining the geographical boundaries is stored on the device . Preferably this data is stored in the memory of the device which is electrically connected with the processor . The data defining the geographical restrictions is preferably transferred via the wireless communication network . The data defining the geographical restrictions and camera restrictions can be received by the device via the standard device receiver . In at least one embodiment a configuration signal receiver processes configuration data that has been transmitted from an enterprise administrator. This configuration signal receiver can be adapted to function with the below described IT policy system.

The IT policy system presented herein is intended to serve as an exemplary implementation of an IT policy system. The description provided herein is designed to illustrate how the handheld communication device can communicate with an IT policy server through a host system.

The mobile device includes a connect module and an IT policy module as shown in . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system with which the mobile device is authorized to interface. An example of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system is given in which is described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of APIs Application Programming Interfaces that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications to which the IT policy pertains then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The IT policy module can include a parser not shown which can be used by the applications to read the IT policy rules. In some cases another module or application can provide the parser. Grouped IT policy rules described in more detail below are retrieved as byte streams which are then sent recursively in a sense into the parser to determine the values of each IT policy rule defined within the grouped IT policy rule. In at least some embodiments the IT policy module can determine which applications are affected by the IT policy data and sends a notification to only those applications. In either of these cases for applications that are not running at the time of the notification the applications can call the parser or the IT policy module when they are executed to determine if there are any relevant IT policy rules in the newly received IT policy data.

All applications that support rules in the IT Policy are coded to know the type of data to expect. For example the value that is set for the WEP User Name IT policy rule is known to be a string therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as a string. As another example the setting for the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy rule is known to be an integer and therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as such.

After the IT policy rules have been applied to the applicable applications or configuration files the IT policy module sends an acknowledgement back to the host system to indicate that the IT policy data was received and successfully applied.

Referring now to a block diagram is shown illustrating components of another exemplary configuration of a host system that the mobile communication device can communicate with in conjunction with the connect module . The host system will typically be a corporate enterprise or other local area network LAN but may also be a home office computer or some other private system for example. In the example shown in the host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which a user of the mobile communication device belongs. Typically a plurality of mobile devices can communicate wirelessly with the host system through one or more nodes of the wireless network .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s mobile communication device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the mobile communication device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each may or may not be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications geographical restrictions from the user computer to the mobile communication device and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the mobile communication device for use. The information downloaded to the mobile communication device may include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers will typically also be connected to other peripheral devices such as printers and the like that are not shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this exemplary configuration. More generally the host system may represent a smaller part of a larger network of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the exemplary embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the mobile communication device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the mobile communication device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a contact server and a device manager module . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the mobile communication device . In an alternative embodiment there may be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . A processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the mobile devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the implementation of these various components. Other components may also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this exemplary embodiment the mobile communication device communicates with the host system through a node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN Virtual Private Network router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the mobile communication device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the mobile communication device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the mobile communication device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the mobile communication device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages may originate from any number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system or from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network. Additionally the message may have been sent from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP .

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . In some implementations the host system may comprise multiple message servers . The message server may also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store may be a separate hardware unit such as data store with which the message server communicates. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer may request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the mobile communication device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the mobile communication device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the mobile communication device to conserve device memory . For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the mobile communication device .

When operating the mobile communication device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the mobile communication device . The message application operating on the mobile communication device may also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application may be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the mobile communication device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the mobile communication device are automatically redirected to the mobile communication device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the mobile communication device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the mobile communication device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server may monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s mobile communication device . The message management server may also compress and encrypt new messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the mobile communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server may also receive messages composed on the mobile communication device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the mobile communication device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . Examples may include whether the mobile communication device may receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the mobile communication device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address. Additionally restrictions can be placed on messages sent from the mobile communication device limiting the ability to send pictures over the network .

The message management server may also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the mobile communication device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the mobile communication device from the message server the message management server may push only the first part of a message to the mobile communication device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the mobile communication device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the mobile communication device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server may include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the mobile communication device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server may be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system may comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

Alternatively in some embodiments the IT policy editor the IT user property editor and the data store can be the IT policy server . In some cases the device manager module can also be implemented on the IT policy server . The processor of the IT policy server can be used to perform the various steps of a method for providing IT policy data that is customizable on a per user basis. The processor can execute the IT Policy Editor and IT User Property Editor . In some cases the functionality of the editors can be provided by a single editor. In some cases the memory unit can provide the data store .

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the mobile communication device . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the mobile communication device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the mobile communication device such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the mobile communication device and the like.

Definitions of known supported IT policy rules can be distributed by way of bundling them with the messaging service software or as a standalone update that can be applied to an IT policy table. Alternatively and in addition to the distribution of proprietary rules IT administrators can invoke the IT policy editor to add or modify existing custom IT policy rules to be used by their own or third party applications.

The above described IT policy system can effectively be used on communication devices where the administrator wishes to prohibit certain features of the device such as camera functionality BLUETOOTH communications Wi Fi communications and other functionality limitations including those described above as desired. Thus the system is capable of remotely implementing an administrative policy on the wireless handheld communication devices within the system. For example the administrator can set rules using the IT policy editor to impose restrictions on the operation of a camera if the device is within a restricted operating area. These restrictions are transmitted to the device using the above described procedure or one that is similar. Once the communication is received by the IT policy module the restrictions can be passed to the appropriate programs controlling the camera. By limiting these functionalities it is possible to provide a secure operating environment for the company and its IT infrastructure. The above described infrastructure for communicating the IT policy to the device is provided as an example and other systems for communicating such an IT policy are considered within the scope of this disclosure. Further details concerning the handheld communication device along with another IT infrastructure is described below.

Referring to an exemplary flow chart of a method for imposing restrictions on the camera of the handheld communication device is shown. These restrictions can be implemented remotely through an administrative policy using the above describe IT policy system. Geographical boundaries are transmitted to and received at the device block . This data defining geographical boundaries are then stored on the device block . Data defining the restrictions to be imposed are preferably transmitted to the device and received by the device block . In a preferred embodiment the receipt of geographical boundaries and restrictions occurs at the same time based upon the transmission of the IT policy from the IT policy server not shown . These restrictions are stored for later use block .

The present geographical position location of the device is ascertained using satellite derived information block . Then a determination is made whether the device is located within the stored geographical boundaries block . If it has been determined that the device is within one of the stored geographical boundaries then the appropriate subsystem or functional aspect restrictions are imposed block . However if the device is not within the stored geographical boundary the present location of the device is monitored. Likewise once the restriction has been imposed on the device the position of the device is evaluated to determine when the device has left the restricted area. The restrictions can be one of the above described restrictions. Furthermore while the storage of the restrictions has been described above in other embodiments the restriction is a default restriction and only the determination of the location of the device is required. The geographical as well as restrictions can be predetermined prerecorded or transmitted to the device using one of the systems described herein. The subsystems or functional aspect as restricted is one of a camera module a Wi FI module a ringer a removable storage device a speaker phone a wireless communication subsystem and e mail.

When designing a handheld communication device other considerations are important as well. A potential problem is presented by the small size of the device in that there is limited exterior surface area for the inclusion of user input and device output features. This is especially true for the prime real estate of the front face of the device where it is most advantageous to include a display screen that outputs information to the user. The display screen is preferably located above a keyboard which is utilized for data entry into the device by the user. If the screen is provided below the keyboard a problem occurs in being able to see the screen while inputting data. Therefore it is preferred that the display screen be above the input area thereby solving the problem by assuring that the hands and fingers do not block the view of the screen during data entry periods.

To facilitate textual data entry an alphabetic keyboard is provided. In one version a full alphabetic keyboard is utilized in which there is one key per letter. This is preferred by some users because it can be arranged to resemble a standard keyboard with which they are most familiar. In this regard the associated letters can be advantageously organized in QWERTY QWERTZ AZERTY or Dvorak layouts among others thereby capitalizing on certain users familiarity with these special letter orders. In order to stay within the bounds of a limited front surface area however each of the keys must be commensurately small when for example twenty six keys must be provided in the instance of the English language. An alternative configuration is to provide a reduced keyboard in which at least some of the keys have more than one letter associated therewith. This means that fewer keys can be included which makes it possible for those fewer keys to each be larger than in the instance when a full keyboard is provided on a similarly dimensioned device . Some users will prefer the solution of the larger keys over the smaller ones but it is necessary that software or hardware solutions be provided in order to discriminate which of the several associated letters the user intends based on a particular key actuation a problem the full keyboard avoids. Preferably this character discrimination is accomplished utilizing disambiguation software accommodated within the device . As with the other software programs embodied within the device a memory and microprocessor are provided within the body of the handheld unit for receiving storing processing and outputting data during use. Therefore the problem of needing a textual data input means is solved by the provision of either a full or reduced alphabetic keyboard on the presently disclosed handheld electronic device .

Keys typically of a push button or push pad nature perform well as data entry devices but present problems to the user when they must also be used to affect navigational control over a screen cursor. In order to solve this problem the present handheld electronic device preferably includes an auxiliary input that acts as a cursor navigational tool and which is also exteriorly located upon the front face of the device as shown in . Its front face location is particularly advantageous because it makes the tool easily thumb actuable like the keys of the keyboard . A particularly usable embodiment the navigational tool is a trackball which is easily utilized to instruct two dimensional screen cursor movement in substantially any direction as well as act as an actuator when the ball of the trackball is depressible like a button. The placement of the trackball is preferably above the keyboard and below the display screen here it avoids interference during keyboarding and does not block the user s view of the display screen during use.

Preferably a row 9 of function keys is provided between the display and the keyboard . This row 9 of function keys preferably is aligned together with the navigation input device which is preferably a trackball . The alignment of these keys allows the user an intuitive location for functions associated with navigation on the display screen of the device . Some of the typical functions that might be provided are described below but these function keys can be assigned different functions by a manufacturer. Additionally while the keys are preferably assigned fixed functions in some embodiments the functions may be user programmable. The call key 6 located on the left end of the row 9 is used to place or answer voice calls. Next the menu key 5 is used to allow a user to pull up or display a menu on the screen of the device. This menu can be a full menu if a menu is already presented on the screen or a short menu with selections shown for the mostly likely choices of the user. Then the trackball is provided for navigation on the screen of device . The trackball is rotatable allowing navigation of a cursor on the display screen in various directions including up down left right and any combination thereof. Furthermore the ball is depressible. When the ball is depressed a selection is made based upon the current location of the cursor. Thus if the cursor is located over a given program icon that program will be launched. Likewise if the menu is shown and the cursor is over a particular item on the menu and the ball is depressed selection of that menu item will be made. Next a back key 7 is provided and this key 7 is capable of navigating to a previously displayed menu selection or device state. Thus if the e mail program is open and a message is displayed pressing the back key 7 will cause the display to return to the general e mail program listing all messages. If the back key 7 is further depressed then display returns to a home screen or the interface from which the user selected the e mail program. This back key 7 can be used until the user interface shown on the display screen returns to a default state. Users can relate this to the functionality typically associated with an escape key as well such that the current selection is cancelled and the previous state is returned. By locating the back key 7 next to the trackball the user can make selections and cancel selections using a proximately located set of keys. On the right end of the row 9 a disconnect key 8 is provided enabling the user to terminate calls or otherwise disconnect from a voice communication. Additional function keys can be provided on the edges of the device such as buttons and shown in . These function keys can be used to provide buttons to control volume specific program selection camera module activation scrolling or other functionality as desired by the manufacturer or user of the device .

In some configurations the handheld electronic device may be standalone in that it is not connectable to the outside world. One example would be a PDA that stores such things as calendars and contact information but is not capable of synchronizing or communicating with other devices. In most situations such isolation will be detrimentally viewed in that at least synchronization is a highly desired characteristic of handheld devices today. Moreover the utility of the device is significantly enhanced when connectable within a system and particularly when connectable on a wireless basis in a system in which both voice and text messaging are accommodated.

Further aspects of the environments devices and methods of employment described hereinabove are expanded upon in the following details. An exemplary embodiment of the handheld electronic device as shown in can be cradled in the palm of a user s hand. The size of the device is such that a user is capable of operating the device using the same hand that is holding the device . In a preferred embodiment the user is capable of actuating all features of the device using the thumb of the cradling hand. While in other embodiments features may require the use of more than just the thumb of the cradling hand. The preferred embodiment of the handheld device features a keyboard on the face of the device which is actuable by the thumb of the hand cradling the device . The user may also hold the device in such a manner to enable two thumb typing on the device . Furthermore the user may use fingers rather than thumbs to actuate the keys on the device . In order to accommodate palm cradling of the device by the average person it is longer height as shown in than it is wide and the width is preferably between approximately two and three inches but by no means limited to such dimensions.

The handheld electronic device includes an input portion and an output display portion. The output display portion can be a display screen such as an LCD or other similar display device.

The input portion includes a plurality of keys that can be of a physical nature such as actuable buttons or they can be of a software nature typically constituted by virtual representations of physical keys on a display screen referred to herein as software keys . It is also contemplated that the user input can be provided as a combination of the two types of keys. Each key of the plurality of keys has at least one actuable action which can be the input of a character a command or a function. In this context characters are contemplated to exemplarily include alphabetic letters language symbols numbers punctuation insignias icons pictures and even a blank space. Input commands and functions can include such things as delete backspace moving a cursor up down left or right initiating an arithmetic function or command initiating a command or function specific to an application program or feature in use initiating a command or function programmed by the user and other such commands and functions that are well known to those persons skilled in the art. Specific keys or other types of input devices can be used to navigate through the various applications and features thereof. Further depending on the application or feature in use specific keys can be enabled or disabled.

In the case of physical keys all or a portion of the plurality of keys have one or more indicia displayed at their top surface and or on the surface of the area adjacent the respective key the particular indicia representing the character s command s and or function s typically associated with that key. In the instance where the indicia of a key s function is provided adjacent the key it is understood that this may be a permanent insignia that is for instance printed on the device cover beside the key or in the instance of keys located adjacent the display screen a current indicia for the key may be temporarily shown nearby the key on the screen .

In the case of software keys the indicia for the respective keys are shown on the display screen which in one embodiment is enabled by touching the display screen for example with a stylus to generate the character or activate the indicated command or function. Such display screens may include one or more touch interfaces including a touchscreen. A non exhaustive list of touchscreens includes for example resistive touchscreens capacitive touchscreens projected capacitive touchscreens infrared touchscreens and surface acoustic wave SAW touchscreens.

Physical and software keys can be combined in many different ways as appreciated by those skilled in the art. In one embodiment physical and software keys are combined such that the plurality of enabled keys for a particular application or feature of the handheld electronic device is shown on the display screen in the same configuration as the physical keys. Thus the desired character command or function is obtained by depressing the physical key corresponding to the character command or function displayed at a corresponding position on the display screen rather than touching the display screen . To aid the user indicia for the characters commands and or functions most frequently used are preferably positioned on the physical keys and or on the area around or between the physical keys. In this manner the user can more readily associate the correct physical key with the character command or function displayed on the display screen .

The various characters commands and functions associated with keyboard typing in general are traditionally arranged using various conventions. The most common of these in the United States for instance is the QWERTY keyboard layout. Others include the QWERTZ AZERTY and Dvorak keyboard configurations of the English language alphabet.

The QWERTY keyboard layout is the standard English language alphabetic key arrangement see . In this configuration Q W E R T and Y are the letters on the top left alphabetic row. It was designed by Christopher Sholes who invented the typewriter. The keyboard layout was organized by him to prevent people from typing too fast and jamming the keys. The QWERTY layout was included in the drawing for Sholes patent application in 1878.

The QWERTZ keyboard layout is normally used in German speaking regions. This alphabetic key arrangement is shown in . In this configuration Q W E R T and Z are the letters on the top left alphabetic row. It differs from the QWERTY keyboard layout by exchanging the Y with a Z . This is because Z is a much more common letter than Y in German and the letters T and Z often appear next to each other in the German language.

The AZERTY keyboard layout is normally used in French speaking regions. This alphabetic key arrangement is shown in . In this configuration A Z E R T and Y are the letters on the top left alphabetic row. It is similar to the QWERTY layout except that the letters Q and A are swapped the letters Z and W are swapped and the letter M is in the middle row instead of the bottom one.

The Dvorak keyboard layout was designed in the 1930s by August Dvorak and William Dealey. This alphabetic key arrangement is shown in . It was developed to allow a typist to type faster. About 70 of words are typed on the home row compared to about 32 with a QWERTY keyboard layout and more words are typed using both hands. It is said that in eight hours fingers of a QWERTY typist travel about 16 miles but only about 1 mile for the Dvorak typist.

Alphabetic key arrangements in full keyboards and typewriters are often presented along with numeric key arrangements. An exemplary numeric key arrangement is shown in where the numbers 1 9 and 0 are positioned above the alphabetic keys. In another known numeric key arrangement numbers share keys with the alphabetic characters such as the top row of the QWERTY keyboard. Yet another exemplary numeric key arrangement is shown in where a numeric keypad is spaced from the alphabetic numeric key arrangement. The numeric keypad includes the numbers 7 8 9 arranged in a top row 4 5 6 arranged in a second row 1 2 3 arranged in a third row and 0 in a bottom row consistent with what may be found on a known ten key computer keyboard keypad. Additionally a numeric phone key arrangement is also known as shown in .

As shown in the numeric phone key arrangement may also utilize a surface treatment on the surface of the center 5 key. This surface treatment is such that the surface of the key is distinctive from the surface of other keys. Preferably the surface treatment is in the form of a raised bump or recessed dimple . This bump or dimple is typically standard on telephones and is used to identify the 5 key through touch alone. Once the user has identified the 5 key it is possible to identify the remainder of the phone keys through touch alone because of their standard placement. The bump or dimple preferably has a shape and size that is readily evident to a user through touch. An example bump or dimple may be round rectangular or have another shape if desired. Alternatively raised bumps may be positioned on the housing around the 5 key and do not necessarily have to be positioned directly on the key as known by those of skill in the art.

It is desirable for handheld electronic devices to include a combined text entry keyboard and a telephony keyboard. Examples of such mobile communication devices include mobile stations cellular telephones wireless personal digital assistants PDAs two way paging devices and others. Various keyboards are used with such devices depending in part on the physical size of the handheld electronic device . Some of these are termed full keyboard reduced keyboard and phone key pads.

In embodiments of a handheld electronic device having a full keyboard only one alphabetic character is associated with each one of a plurality of physical keys. Thus with an English language keyboard there are at least 26 keys in the plurality one for each letter of the English alphabet. In such embodiments using the English language alphabet one of the keyboard layouts described above is usually employed and with the QWERTY keyboard layout being the most common.

One device that uses a full keyboard for alphabetic characters and incorporates a combined numeric keyboard is shown in . In this device numeric characters share keys with alphabetic characters on the top row of the QWERTY keyboard. Another device that incorporates a combined alphabetic numeric keyboard is shown in . This device utilizes numeric characters in a numeric phone key arrangement consistent with the ITU Standard E.161 as shown in . The numeric characters share keys with alphabetic characters on the left side of the keyboard.

In order to further reduce the size of a handheld electronic device without making the physical keys or software keys too small some handheld electronic devices use a reduced keyboard where more than one character command function is associated with each of at least a portion of the plurality of keys. This results in certain keys being ambiguous since more than one character is represented by or associated with the key even though only one of those characters is typically intended by the user when activating the key.

Thus certain software usually runs on the processor of these types of handheld electronic devices to determine or predict what letter or word has been intended by the user. Predictive text technologies can also automatically correct common spelling errors. Predictive text methodologies often include a disambiguation engine and or a predictive editor application. This helps facilitate easy spelling and composition since the software is preferably intuitive software with a large word list and the ability to increase that list based on the frequency of word usage.

The software preferably also has the ability to recognize character letter sequences that are common to the particular language such as in the case of English words ending in ing. Such systems can also learn the typing style of the user making note of frequently used words to increase the predictive aspect of the software. With predictive editor applications the display of the device depicts possible character sequences corresponding to the keystrokes that were entered. Typically the most commonly used word is displayed first. The user may select other less common words manually or otherwise. Other types of predictive text computer programs may be utilized with the keyboard arrangement and keyboard described herein without limitation.

The multi tap method of character selection has been in use a number of years for permitting users to enter text using a touch screen device or a conventional telephone key pad such as specified under ITU E 1.161 among other devices. Multi tap requires a user to press a key a varying number of times generally within a limited period of time to input a specific letter thereby spelling the desired words of the message. A related method is the long tap method where a user depresses the key until the desired character appears on the display out of a rotating series of letters.

A text on nine keys type system uses predictive letter patterns to allow a user to ideally press each key representing a letter only once to enter text. Unlike multi tap which requires a user to indicate a desired character by a precise number of presses of a key or keystrokes the text on nine keys system uses a predictive text dictionary and established letter patterns for a language to intelligently guess which one of many characters represented by a key that the user intended to enter. The predictive text dictionary is primarily a list of words acronyms abbreviations and the like that can be used in the composition of text.

Generally all possible character string permutations represented by a number of keystrokes entered by a user are compared to the words in the predictive text dictionary and a subset of the permutations is shown to the user to allow selection of the intended character string. The permutations are generally sorted by likelihood of occurrence which is determined from the number of words matched in the predictive text dictionary and various metrics maintained for these words. Where the possible character string permutations do not match any words in the predictive text dictionary the set of established letter patterns for a selected language can be applied to suggest the most likely character string permutations and then require the user to input a number of additional keystrokes in order to enter the desired word.

The keys of reduced keyboards are laid out with various arrangements of characters commands and functions associated therewith. In regards to alphabetic characters the different keyboard layouts identified above are selectively used based on a user s preference and familiarity for example the QWERTY keyboard layout is most often used by English speakers who have become accustomed to the key arrangement.

In this example the color scheme of the numeric phone keys has a two tone appearance with the upper portion of the numeric keys being a first color and the lower portion of the numeric keys being a second color. In the example the upper portion of the keys is white with blue letters and the lower portion of the keys is blue with white letters. Most of the remaining keys associated with the QWERTY key arrangement are predominantly the second blue color with white lettering. The first color may be lighter than the second color or darker than the second color. In addition the keyboard includes a send key 6 and an end key 8. The send key 6 is positioned in the upper left corner of the keyboard and the end key 8 is positioned in the upper right corner. The send key 6 and end key 8 may have different color schemes than the remainder of the keys in order to distinguish them from other keys. In addition the send and end keys 6 8 may have different colors from one another. In the example shown the send key 6 is green and the end key 8 is red. Different colors may be utilized if desired.

Another embodiment of a reduced alphabetic keyboard is found on a standard phone keypad. Most handheld electronic devices having a phone key pad also typically include alphabetic key arrangements overlaying or coinciding with the numeric keys as shown in . Such alphanumeric phone keypads are used in many if not most traditional handheld telephony mobile communication devices such as cellular handsets.

As described above the International Telecommunications Union ITU has established phone standards for the arrangement of alphanumeric keys. The standard phone numeric key arrangement shown in no alphabetic letters and with alphabetic letters corresponds to ITU Standard E.161 entitled Arrangement of Digits Letters and Symbols on Telephones and Other Devices That Can Be Used for Gaining Access to a Telephone Network. This standard is also known as ANSI TI.703 1995 1999 and ISO IEC 9995 8 1994. Regarding the numeric arrangement it can be aptly described as a top to bottom ascending order three by three over zero pattern.

The table below identifies the alphabetic characters associated with each number for some other phone keypad conventions.

It should also be appreciated that other alphabetic character and number combinations can be used beyond those identified above when deemed useful to a particular application.

As noted earlier multi tap software has been in use for a number of years permitting users to enter text using a conventional telephone key pad such as specified under ITU E 1.161 or on a touch screen display among other devices. Multi tap requires a user to press a key a varying number of times generally within a limited period of time to input a specific letter associated with the particular key thereby spelling the desired words of the message. A related method is the long tap method where a user depresses the key until the desired character appears on the display.

As shown in a camera mounted on the exterior surface of the handheld electronic device provides an additional means for input to the device . The camera can be controlled by the administrative security policy. The camera and the device are integrated with the lens preferably located on the rear side of the device. Situated next to the lens is a flash capable of producing a light source at distances of at least one meter. The lens is protected from scratches by a protective covering. Additionally the lens protective covering and image sensor are strong enough to resist mechanical forces associated with normal use of a portable electronic device. Examples of such forces include squeezing the device in the hand or dropping the device. Also situated next to the camera is a reflective surface which enables a user to appropriately aim the camera for image acquisition. The camera reflective surface and the flash are part of the camera assembly . This camera assembly is further connected to the camera module .

The camera is capable of taking still images or video images and preferably recording the accompanying audio. The display can show images up to ten frames per second while the camera application is running. The focus range of the camera is preferably from 10 cm or nearer to infinity. The camera also contains a digital zoom function to magnify the image up to five times.

The handheld electronic device contains a dedicated hard key shown in for initiating the taking of pictures but the hard key can also be programmed for additional uses. By pressing the dedicated hard key or selecting a corresponding on screen menu option the camera will be enabled and the camera application will be launched. An additional depression of the dedicated hard key results in image acquisition taking a picture .

After the picture is taken the image is displayed on the device s display screen . The display shows the picture along with a set of options from which the user may select. Options can include but are not limited to discarding deleting the picture saving the picture to the device memory saving the picture to removable memory setting the picture as the display background associating the picture with a caller ID contact or sending the picture wirelessly. Examples of wireless transmission methods include MMS Multimedia Messaging Service E mail or Messenger Service. If the user decides to save the picture the picture can be stored into either fixed or removable memory. In a device enabled to send e mail messages one of the above described options includes directly attaching the image to an e mail message once the picture has been taken and displayed on the screen . This enables a user of the device to bypass the steps of saving the image and then later attaching the image.

While the camera application is running the device is capable of performing other non camera functions such as receiving e mail messages and phone calls. After a predetermined amount of inactivity while in the camera application the camera and display will enter a sleep mode where the memory stores the current program location but the power being supplied to the display and camera is no longer provided.

In addition to facilitating picture taking the camera application allows users to determine certain settings for the camera and the pictures to be taken. One option enables the display screen to zoom in and out of the picture displayed on it. Another option permits the picture to be adapted to different image resolution sizes. Typical resolution sizes in pixels are 160 120 320 240 640 480 1024 768 1M 1.3M or 2M. One such image resolution size is preferably set as the default image resolution size. Additionally image quality adjustments can be used to adjust the image acquisition by the camera. Some examples of image qualities include normal fine and superfine with one being preferably set as the default setting. Furthermore timers and flash settings can be implemented in the image acquisition routine. The flash preferably is set to automatic but can be adjusted to on or off modes of operation. Also the camera module and corresponding software can adjust the white balance. The adjustment of white balance can either be directly or through a series of preset options including automatic sunny cloudy indoor night tungsten and fluorescent. Preferably the default for the white balance control is the preset option for automatic.

The user interface in at least one embodiment generates shutter sounds that are emitted by the device when a picture is taken purely as a familiar indicator to the user that an image has been acquired. Likewise an option for the user to access stored pictures is provided through the user interface along with an option to add a date and or a time stamp to a picture when it is taken. This information can further be controlled by an administrator with rights to control the IT security settings for the device.

Pictures taken by the camera will be preferably stored in the flash memory of the handheld electronic device . The amount of memory used by the handheld electronic device to store pictures should be at least 10 MB with the actual amount set by the user. When the user is setting the amount of memory storage the display should show approximately how many pictures the user can store at that setting based on the current resolution setting. When the storage limit is reached the user is warned that the memory storage is full. However if the handheld electronic device is equipped with a removable storage device the user can elect to store the pictures onto the removable storage instead of the flash memory .

In at least one embodiment the images are saved in JPEG format with the following EXIF metadata information support manufacturer make model firmware version orientation x y resolution resolution unit date time YCbCr positioning component configuration date time original EXIF color space pixel X Y dimension. Additionally the metadata information can contain location information indicating the geographical location that the picture was taken. Furthermore identification information can also be associated with the picture relating to the device or user can be stored in the metadata.

To facilitate management of stored pictures a picture application can be provided as part of the device s software. The picture application can be run directly by the user or can be run automatically for a predetermined time after a picture is taken. The picture application gives users a number of options to manage their pictures. One option allows for a picture to be renamed or deleted. Another option allows the details of a selected picture to be viewed. Details of a selected picture could include name size type resolution and capture date time. Another option allows for the user to set a selected picture as the background image for the handheld communication device . Yet another option allows for a selected picture to be designated as a caller ID image. Still another option allows for changing the order of the pictures to be shown on the display screen . Another option to edit pictures includes the ability to crop an existing image. Furthermore another option allows the user to group selected pictures into a photo album. The photo albums should allow for viewing by slideshow. The movement of pictures through the slideshow may be controlled manually or automatically with preset transitions. Examples of automatic preset transitions could include 1s 2s or 5s. The default transition is manual. The slideshow can also be set to loop continuously. While the slideshow is running the display will not turn off based on user inactivity.

Another IT infrastructure example in which the handheld communication device can operate is described below. The description given below provides one example of a system of sending and receiving messages. Other systems are known and this is provided as merely an example of a possible way in which the device can communicate with additional systems.

As shown in an e mail sender system may for example be connected to an ISP on which a user of a the system has an account located within a company possibly connected to a local area network LAN and connected to the Internet or connected to the Internet through a larger ASP. Alternatively the connection to the Internet can be through a wide area network WAN . The message server may be implemented for example on a network computer within the firewall of a corporation a computer within an ISP or ASP system or the like and acts as the main interface for e mail exchange over the Internet . Although other messaging systems might not require a message server system a handheld device configured for receiving and possibly sending e mail will normally be associated with an account on a message server. Message servers such as server typically extend beyond just sending and receiving e mail they also include dynamic database storage engines that have predefined database formats for data like calendars to do lists task lists e mail and documentation.

The wireless gateway and infrastructure provide a link between the Internet and wireless network . The wireless infrastructure determines the most likely network for locating a given user and tracks the user as they roam between networks. A message is then delivered to the handheld communication device via a wireless transmission from a base station in the wireless network to the handheld communication device .

As shown in a composed e mail message is sent by the e mail sender located on the Internet . This message arrives at the message server and is normally stored in a message store. Some messaging systems require that the handheld communication device request that stored messages be forwarded by the message server to the device . Other systems provide for automatic routing of such messages these messages are addressed using a specific e mail address associated with the device . In a preferred embodiment described in further detail below messages addressed to a message server account associated with a host system such as a home computer or office computer which belongs to the user of a communication device are redirected from the message server to the communication device as they are received.

Additionally the system of includes a host system a redirection program a physical cradle device a wireless VPN router and another wireless network . Although the encoded message processing systems and methods described herein may be applied to networks having many different topologies the network of is useful in understanding an automatic e mail redirection system mentioned briefly above. The central host system will typically be a corporate office or other LAN but may instead be a home office computer or some other private system where mail messages are being exchanged. Within the host system is the message server running on a computer within the firewall of the host system that acts as the main interface for the host system to exchange e mail with the Internet . In the system of the redirection program enables redirection of data items from the server to a communication device . Although the redirection program is shown to reside on the same machine as the message server for ease of presentation there is no requirement that it must reside on the message server. The redirection program and the message server are designed to co operate and interact to allow the pushing of information to communication devices . In this installation the redirection program takes confidential and non confidential corporate information from a specific user and redirects it out through the corporate firewall to the communication devices . This push technique may use a wireless friendly encoding compression and encryption technique to deliver all information to a mobile device thus effectively extending the security firewall to include each communication device associated with the host system .

As shown in there may be many alternative paths for getting information to the handheld communication device . One method for loading information onto the handheld communication device is through a port designated using a device cradle . This method tends to be useful for bulk information updates often performed at initialization of a handheld communication device with the host system or a computer within the system . The other main method for data exchange is over the air using wireless networks to deliver the information. As shown in this may be accomplished through a wireless VPN router or through a traditional Internet connection to a wireless gateway and a wireless infrastructure as described above. The concept of a wireless VPN router is new in the wireless industry and implies that a VPN connection could be established directly through a specific wireless network to a handheld communication device . The possibility of using a wireless VPN router has only recently been available and could be used when the new Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 arrives into IP based wireless networks. This new protocol will provide enough IP addresses to dedicate an IP address to every handheld communication device and thus make it possible to push information to a handheld communication device at any time. A principal advantage of using this wireless VPN router is that it could be an off the shelf VPN component thus not requiring the use of a separate wireless gateway and wireless infrastructure . A VPN connection would preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection to deliver the messages directly to the handheld communication device . If a wireless VPN is not available then a link to the Internet is the most common connection mechanism available and has been described above.

In the automatic redirection system of a composed e mail message leaving the e mail sender arrives at the message server and is redirected by the redirection program to the handheld communication device . As this redirection takes place the message is re enveloped as indicated at and a possibly proprietary compression and encryption algorithm can then be applied to the original message . In this way messages being read on the handheld communication device are no less secure than if they were read on a desktop workstation such as within the firewall. All messages exchanged between the redirection program and the handheld communication device preferably use this message repackaging technique. Another goal of this outer envelope is to maintain the addressing information of the original message except the sender s and the receiver s address. This allows reply messages to reach the appropriate destination and also allows the from field to reflect the mobile user s desktop address. Using the user s e mail address from the handheld communication device allows the received message to appear as though the message originated from the user s desktop system rather than the handheld communication device .

With reference back to the port and cradle connectivity to the handheld communication device this connection path offers many advantages for enabling one time data exchange of large items. For those skilled in the art of personal digital assistants PDAs and synchronization the most common data exchanged over this link is Personal Information Management PIM data . When exchanged for the first time this data tends to be large in quantity bulky in nature and requires a large bandwidth to get loaded onto the handheld communication device where it can be used on the road. This serial link may also be used for other purposes including setting up a private security key such as an S MIME or PGP specific private key the Certificate Cert of the user and their Certificate Revocation Lists CRLs . The private key is preferably exchanged so that the desktop and handheld communication device share one personality and one method for accessing all mail. The Cert and CRLs are normally exchanged over such a link because they represent a large amount of the data that is required by the device for S MIME PGP and other public key security methods.

An exemplary handheld electronic device is shown in the assembly drawing of and its cooperation in a wireless network is exemplified in the block diagram of . These figures are exemplary only and those persons skilled in the art will appreciate the additional elements and modifications necessary to make the device work in particular network environments.

The navigation tool is frictionally engaged with the support frame but in a preferred embodiment the navigation tool is removable when the device is assembled. This allows for replacement of the navigation tool if it becomes damaged or the user desires replacement with a different type of navigation tool . In the exemplary embodiment of the navigation tool is a trackball based device. When the navigation tool has a trackball the trackball itself can be removed without removal of the navigation tool . The removal of the trackball is enabled through the use of an outer removable ring and an inner removable ring . These rings ensure that the navigation tool and the trackball are properly held in place against the support frame .

The camera module is located together with a backplate on the rear side of the device. The camera module is capable of being removed and other modules not shown inserted in place of the camera module. The camera module houses the camera assembly which includes a camera a flash and a mirror further details of which are shown in .

A serial port preferably a Universal Serial Bus port and an earphone jack are fixably attached to the PCB and further held in place by left side element . Buttons are attached to switches not shown which are connected to the PCB .

Final assembly involves placing the top piece and bottom piece in contact with support frame . Furthermore the assembly interconnects right side element and left side element with the support frame PCB and lens . These side elements provide additional protection and strength to the support structure of the device . In a preferred embodiment backplate is removably attached to the other elements of the device.

The block diagram of representing the communication device interacting in the communication network shows the device s inclusion of a microprocessor which controls the operation of the device . The communication subsystem performs all communication transmission and reception with the wireless network . The microprocessor further connects with an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a serial port preferably a Universal Serial Bus port a display a keyboard a speaker a microphone random access memory RAM flash memory camera module and position determiner . Other communications subsystems and other device subsystems are generally indicated as connected to the microprocessor as well. An example of a communication subsystem is that of a short range communication subsystem such as BLUETOOTH communication module or an infrared device and associated circuits and components. Additionally the microprocessor is able to perform operating system functions and preferably enables execution of software applications on the communication device .

The above described auxiliary I O subsystem can take the form of a variety of different subsystems including the above described navigation tool . The navigation tool is preferably a trackball based device but it can be a four way navigational pad joystick thumbwheel touch pad or a roller barrel. Other auxiliary I O devices can include external display devices and externally connected keyboards not shown . While the above examples have been provided in relation to the auxiliary I O subsystem other subsystems capable of providing input or receiving output from the handheld electronic device are considered within the scope of this disclosure.

In a preferred embodiment the communication device is designed to wirelessly connect with a communication network . Some communication networks that the communication device may be designed to operate on require a subscriber identity module SIM or removable user identity module RUIM . Thus a device intended to operate on such a system will include SIM RUIM interface into which the SIM RUIM card not shown may be placed. The SIM RUIM interface can be one in which the SIM RUIM card is inserted and ejected.

In an exemplary embodiment the flash memory is enabled to provide a storage location for the operating system device programs and data. While the operating system in a preferred embodiment is stored in flash memory the operating system in other embodiments is stored in read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . As those skilled in the art will appreciate the operating system device application or parts thereof may be loaded in RAM or other volatile memory.

In a preferred embodiment the flash memory contains programs applications for execution on the device including an address book a personal information manager PIM the device state connect module and IT policy module . Furthermore programs and other information can be segregated upon storage in the flash memory of the device . However another embodiment of the flash memory utilizes a storage allocation method such that a program is allocated additional space in order to store data associated with such program. Other known allocation methods exist in the art and those persons skilled in the art will appreciate additional ways to allocate the memory of the device .

In a preferred embodiment the device is pre loaded with a limited set of programs that enable it to operate on the communication network . Another program that can be preloaded is a PIM application that has the ability to organize and manage data items including but not limited to e mail calendar events voice messages appointments and task items. In order to operate efficiently memory is allocated for use by the PIM for the storage of associated data. In a preferred embodiment the information that PIM manages is seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated through the communication network with a user s corresponding information on a remote computer not shown . The synchronization in another embodiment can also be performed through the serial port or other short range communication subsystem . Other applications may be installed through connection with the wireless network serial port or via other short range communication subsystems .

When the device is enabled for two way communication within the wireless communication network it can send and receive signals from a mobile communication service. Examples of communication systems enabled for two way communication include but are not limited to the GPRS General Packet Radio Service network the UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Service network the EDGE Enhanced Data for Global Evolution network and the CDMA Code Division Multiple Access network and those networks generally described as packet switched narrowband data only technologies mainly used for short burst wireless data transfer.

For the systems listed above the communication device must be properly enabled to transmit and receive signals from the communication network . Other systems may not require such identifying information. A GPRS UMTS and EDGE require the use of a SIM Subscriber Identity Module in order to allow communication with the communication network . Likewise most CDMA systems require the use of a RUIM Removable Identity Module in order to communicate with the CDMA network. The RUIM and SIM card can be used in multiple different communication devices . The communication device may be able to operate some features without a SIM RUIM card but it will not be able to communicate with the network . In some locations the communication device will be enabled to work with special services such as 911 emergency without a SIM RUIM or with a non functioning SIM RUIM card. A SIM RUIM interface located within the device allows for removal or insertion of a SIM RUIM card not shown . This interface can be configured like that of a disk drive or a PCMCIA slot or other known attachment mechanism in the art. The SIM RUIM card features memory and holds key configurations and other information such as identification and subscriber related information. Furthermore a SIM RUIM card can be enabled to store information about the user including identification carrier and address book information. With a properly enabled communication device two way communication between the communication device and communication network is possible.

If the communication device is enabled as described above or the communication network does not require such enablement the two way communication enabled device is able to both transmit and receive information from the communication network . The transfer of communication can be from the device or to the device . In order to communicate with the communication network the device in a preferred embodiment is equipped with an integral or internal antenna for transmitting signals to the communication network . Likewise the communication device in the preferred embodiment is equipped with another antenna for receiving communication from the communication network . These antennae in another preferred embodiment are combined into a single antenna not shown . As one skilled in the art would appreciate the antenna or antennae in another embodiment are externally mounted on the device .

When equipped for two way communication the communication device features a communication subsystem . As is well known in the art this communication subsystem is modified so that it can support the operational needs of the device . The subsystem includes a transmitter and receiver including the associated antenna or antennae as described above local oscillators LOs and a processing module which in a preferred embodiment is a digital signal processor DSP .

A signal received by the communication device is first received by the antenna and then input into a receiver which in a preferred embodiment is capable of performing common receiver functions including signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and the like and analog to digital A D conversion. The A D conversion allows the DSP to perform more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding on the signals that are received by DSP from the receiver . The DSP is also capable of issuing control commands to the receiver . An example of a control command that the DSP is capable of sending to the receiver is gain control which is implemented in automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP . Likewise the communication device is capable of transmitting signals to the communication network . The DSP communicates the signals to be sent to the transmitter and further communicates control functions such as the above described gain control. The signal is emitted by the device through an antenna connected to the transmitter .

It is contemplated that communication by the device with the wireless network can be any type of communication that both the wireless network and device are enabled to transmit receive and process. In general these can be classified as voice and data. Voice communication is communication in which signals for audible sounds are transmitted by the device through the communication network . Data is all other types of communication that the device is capable of performing within the constraints of the wireless network .

In the instance of voice communications voice transmissions that originate from the communication device enter the device though a microphone . The microphone communicates the signals to the microprocessor for further conditioning and processing. The microprocessor sends the signals to the DSP which controls the transmitter and provides the correct signals to the transmitter . Then the transmitter sends the signals to the antenna which emits the signals to be detected by a communication network . Likewise when the receiver obtains a signal from the receiving antenna that is a voice signal it is transmitted to the DSP which further sends the signal to the microprocessor . Then the microprocessor provides a signal to the speaker of the device and the user can hear the voice communication that has been received. The device in a preferred embodiment is enabled to allow for full duplex voice transmission.

In another embodiment the voice transmission may be received by the communication device and translated as text to be shown on the display screen of the communication device . The communication device is also capable of retrieving messages from a voice messaging service operated by the communication network operator. In a preferred embodiment the device displays information in relation to the voice message such as the number of voice messages or an indication that a new voice message is present on the operating system.

In a preferred embodiment the display of the communication device provides an indication about the identity of an incoming call duration of the voice communication telephone number of the communication device call history and other related information. It should be appreciated that the above described embodiments are given as examples only and one skilled in the art may effect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application.

As stated above the communication device and communication network can be enabled to transmit receive and process data. Several different types of data exist and some of these types of data will be described in further detail. One type of data communication that occurs over the communication network includes electronic mail e mail messages. Typically an e mail is text based but can also include other types of data such as picture files attachments and html. While these are given as examples other types of messages are considered within the scope of this disclosure as well.

When the e mail originates from a source outside of the device and is communicated to the device it is first received by the receiving antenna and then transmitted to the receiver . From the receiver the e mail message is further processed by the DSP and it then reaches the microprocessor . The microprocessor executes instructions as indicated from the relevant programming instructions to display store or process the e mail message as directed by the program. In a similar manner once an e mail message has been properly processed by the microprocessor for transmission to the communication network it is first sent to the DSP which further transmits the e mail message to the transmitter . The transmitter processes the e mail message and transmits it to the transmission antenna which broadcasts a signal to be received by a communication network . While the above has been described generally those skilled in this art will appreciate those modifications which are necessary to enable the communication device to properly transmit the e mail message over a given communication network .

Furthermore the e mail message may instead be transmitted from the device via a serial port another communication port or other wireless communication ports . The user of the device can generate a message to be sent using the keyboard and or auxiliary I O and the associated application to generate the e mail message. Once the e mail message is generated the user may execute a send command which directs the e mail message from the communication device to the communication network . In an exemplary embodiment a keyboard preferably an alphanumeric keyboard is used to compose the e mail message. In a preferred embodiment an auxiliary I O device is used in addition to the keyboard .

While the above has been described in relation to e mail messages one skilled in the art could easily modify the procedure to function with other types of data such as SMS text messages internet websites videos instant messages programs and ringtones. Once the data is received by the microprocessor the data is placed appropriately within the operating system of the device . This might involve presenting a message on the display which indicates the data has been received or storing it in the appropriate memory on the device . For example a downloaded application such as a game will be placed into a suitable place in the flash memory of the device . The operating system of the device will also allow for appropriate access to the new application as downloaded.

Exemplary embodiments have been described hereinabove regarding handheld electronic devices and wireless handheld communication devices as well as the communication networks within which they cooperate. It should be appreciated however that a focus of the present disclosure is the enablement of restricting a subsystem or functional aspect of a handheld communication device within a set of geographical boundaries.

