---

title: Systems, devices, methods for sensing and processing fishing related data
abstract: Devices and systems for noninvasively and nondestructively sensing a signal in an electrical outdoor device, such a fishing transponder, are described. The device can include a first electrical connection to connect to a port on a main unit of an echo-location device, a second electrical connection to connect to a port on a transponder, the second electrical connection being in bi-directional electrical communication with the first connection to send a power signal from the main unit to the transponder and return an echoed signal to the main unit, and a third electrical connection to sense the signals between the first electrical connection and the second electrical connection. Positioning data is also created and stored with the signal data. The positioning data can be used to control acquisition of data. Systems and methods for processing the sensed data are described. Reports can be generated using the data and, in some reports with the positioning data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135731&OS=09135731&RS=09135731
owner: Navico Holding AS
number: 09135731
owner_city: Egersund
owner_country: NO
publication_date: 20130228
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 784 138 filed on 20 May 2010 titled SYSTEMS DEVICES METHODS FOR SENSING AND PROCESSING FISHING RELATED DATA which claims benefit and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 180 409 filed on 21 May 2009 titled SYSTEMS DEVICES METHODS FOR SENSING AND PROCESSING FISHING RELATED DATA which both applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety for any purpose.

The present disclosure relates to systems devices and methods for sensing characteristics of a body of water and more specifically to a device to sense water characteristics or fishing data to report sensed data to a remote location and to provide reports using the sensed data.

The fishing industry has over 42 billion dollars in annual expenditures in the US alone and an estimated 30 million participants. Anglers in the United States spend an average of 566 million days of total fishing on the water. Many anglers are willing to invest in new technologies to enhance their fishing experience by providing tools to more efficiently use their recreational time.

An apparatus for collecting storing and transmitting fishing information is described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0249860. Its Abstract states a system for collecting storing processing and transmitting fishing or other sport information includes a data logging and processing module and connected sensors for automatically collecting data during participation in the sport. A data communication module collects data input by the user. Data from both modules is input into a personal computer connected to a web site that uses the data from the modules and collected related data to provide a virtual guide service.

A fishing data display device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 161 872. Its Abstract states a fish depth monitor is a device that can display first water depth data that indicates the location of terminal tackle that is engaged on fishing line reeled out from a spool and second water depth data that indicates the location of the bottom of a fishing location transmitted from a fish finder and includes a case first and second reception portions a display unit and a control unit. The first and second reception portions receive the first water depth data from an electric driven reel and the second water depth data from the fish finder. The control unit graphically displays the received first and second water depth data in positions that correspond to the water depth on the display unit. It is possible to intuitively determine the positional relationship between the location of the terminal tackle and the location of the bottom.

Integrated mapping and audio systems are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 236 426. Its Abstract states an integrated position mapping system and an integrated sonar mapping system both permit recording storage and playback of audio data. Audio data is provided to the integrated sonar mapping system or the integrated position mapping system so that it may be correlated to position data or echo data. The integrated sonar mapping system includes a sonar transducer for emitting and receiving sonar signals that may be subsequently be processed to provide echo data from objects in the water which reflect sonar signals. The integrated position mapping system includes a position receiver for providing position data. A controller not only processes the data for storage but also correlates the audio data to echo data or position data. The correlated data may therefore be retrieved for playback of the audio data and display of the position data or echo data.

A remote fish logging unit is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 222 449. Its Abstract states a portable recording device namely a remote logging unit for electronically recording relevant information related to fishing conditions and the like. The recording device has sensors for detecting environmental conditions and or for measuring physical data on a specimen caught. The device also includes input mechanisms such as a touch screen for manually entering information and a display for reviewing information stored in the device s memory. The recording device may be connectable to a personal computer for creating a personal log of the user s activities and or for loading additional information into the device. The device may transfer recorded data to a central repository for example using a transmitter receiver for sending a data signal to a network server which maintains a database of information related to fishing conditions at a number of locations. The network server may receive and compile information from a number of remote units at various locations thereby providing a system for sharing such information. A remote unit may contact the server from a remote location and request information on fishing conditions for a selected location.

Examples of the systems methods and devices described herein can process outdoor related data e.g. fishing and or aquatic data. Raw data can be produced by sonar equipment on boats. In an example the data is from the numerous private boats sailing on the waterways. Many boats include sonar systems and an example of the present invention can sense the signals being produced by the sonar system to save the data. The data can be sensed without interfering with the signals traversing the communication paths of the sonar system. Thereafter the data can be loaded to more powerful computing system to apply stored instructions to the data to produce meaningful reports for a user. These reports can be private to the user or can be sold to other users.

The environment can include a satellite network and or a cellular network both of which can be utilized for transmitting and receiving positional sensed and operational data to the monitoring system . The network can also be a short range wireless network used by computer systems. The satellite network and or the cellular network can also receive and transmit the positional sensed and operational data from a monitoring system service provider . The monitoring system service provider can include dedicated circuitry or a general purpose computer configurable to make the information collected at the monitoring system available through an open architecture interface such as an Application Programming Interface API . The environment can also include an electronic network for example a computer network. The network can be a network of data processing nodes that are interconnected for the purpose of data communication e.g. a global computer network such as the Internet . In an example the memory device of the monitoring system connected to at least one of the satellite network and cellular network to upload the stored data.

The monitoring system provider is communicatively coupled to the network . A monitoring system processor illustrated within the environment can be communicatively coupled to the network as well. The monitoring system processor can be utilized to access and pull the positional and operational data associated with the watercraft as well as sensed data via the open architecture interface. The monitoring system processor can communicate with the memory of the system to retrieve the data. Various communication protocols e.g. Web Services and cellular communications can be utilized in the communications occurring between the monitoring system processor and the monitoring system service provider . The monitoring system service provider can utilize telematics and intelligent data processing as well as software to make the information available via the network .

While illustrated as two separated systems in an example the monitoring system and the monitoring system processor can be integrated and communication between the two systems occur as the environment around a watercraft is being monitored.

The monitoring system processor can be communicatively coupled to a database in which the monitoring system processor may periodically store results after processing of the information received from the monitoring system provider . In an example the database is a centralized behavioral and geo mapping database. The monitoring system processor can include various modules discussed in more detail below with reference to . The modules of the monitoring system processor can be utilized to perform various operations to transform the data into useful information regarding the body of water including but not limited to fishing information. This useful information can be provided back to the owner of watercraft through a variety of media including but not limited to interactive media computer systems electronic networks etc.

The monitoring system processor can apply rules to the stored data to interpret the data into useful information e.g. reports . The rules can be stored in machine readable formats e.g. magnetic media optical media electrical media. In an example the database stores the rules. The rule application can be performed automatically. The monitoring system processor is optionally associated with an operator operating the monitoring system processor via a computer . The computer can include a Graphical User Interface GUI facilitating display and manipulation of the monitoring system processor . The computer can also enable the operator to view and manipulate reports that can be used to manage and monitor one or more of the physical qualities of a body of water that is associated with the watercraft and or an authorized user. The monitor can be remote and the graphics being displayed can be over a computer network. In an example the reports and data can be sent through the monitoring system service provider to the watercraft or to another location as designated by the user

The authorized user can receive real time reports related to the data regarding a body of water such as contour maps travel past performance and location. Using a report as a detailed map view the authorized user can see up to date data related to body of water or the fishing excursion. The map view can also show data that has been interpreted by the processor. The reports can include an overview report for a body of water. The overview report for example can detail one or more of weed beds bottom composition and structure fish depth density and bait fish. The reports can include a time report. The time report for example can detail any of the measured or derived characteristics as a function of time. The reports can also include a hazard report. The hazard report can include information regarding hazards in the body of water. The reports can also include a fish report. The fish report can include fish population information as well as local fishing restrictions. The reports can include a trip tracking report which includes the course of the watercraft during one or more excursions on a body of water.

The monitoring system processor can provide the reports to an authorized user via the network . The authorized user can view the reports using a general purpose computer or any other device providing an ability to view the reports . In some example embodiments the monitoring system processor can send copies of the reports to the authorized user attached or embedded in a body of an electronic email. The reports can also be provided or applications on mobile communication devices. The reports are based on the information initially provided by the monitoring system . The monitoring system is described by way of example with reference to .

In various examples the computing devices are mobile telephones that run applications on which data from the monitoring system processor can be displayed. In an example the device or is an IPhone produced by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. The application on device can provide an interface whereby the user or respectively can request data from the monitoring system processor . The processor can format the data and send it to the device for display. The application on the device can be interactive with the data to provide different views and change graphics at the request of the user.

Data communication as described in couples the various devices together. The network is preferably the Internet but can be any electronic communication network capable of communicating data between devices which can be used with the present system. In addition to the Internet suitable networks can also include or interface with any one or more of for instance an local intranet a PAN Personal Area Network a LAN Local Area Network a WAN Wide Area Network a MAN Metropolitan Area Network a virtual private network VPN a storage area network SAN a frame relay connection an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN connection a synchronous optical network SONET connection a digital T1 T3 E1 or E3 line Digital Data Service DDS connection DSL Digital Subscriber Line connection an Ethernet connection an ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network line a dial up port such as a V.90 V.34 or V.34bis analog modem connection a cable modem an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode connection or an FDDI Fiber Distributed Data Interface or CDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface connection. Furthermore communications can also include links to any of a variety of wireless networks including WAP Wireless Application Protocol GPRS General Packet Radio Service GSM Global System for Mobile Communication CDMA Code Division Multiple Access or TDMA Time Division Multiple Access cellular phone networks GPS Global Positioning System CDPD cellular digital packet data RIM Research in Motion Limited duplex paging network Bluetooth radio or an IEEE 802.11 based radio frequency network. The network can further include or interface with any one or more of an RS 232 serial connection an IEEE 1394 Firewire connection a Fiber Channel connection an IrDA infrared port a SCSI Small Computer Systems Interface connection a USB Universal Serial Bus connection or other wired or wireless digital or analog interface or connection mesh or Digi networking.

The transmitter and the receiver are electrically connected to the antenna for respectively sending and receiving over the air electromagnetic signals. The transmitter includes electronic circuits to receive an input signal from the antenna . The transmitter can include a power supply an oscillator a modulator and amplifiers for specific frequencies. The modulator adds signal information onto a carrier frequency which is then broadcast from the antenna . The receiver can include electronic filters to separate a desired radio signal from noise and other signals sensed by the antenna . The receiver amplifies the desired signal to a level suitable for further electronic processing e.g. demodulation and decoding and signal processing. While the transmitter and the receiver are shown as separate devices in it will be recognized that a transceiver a device that includes circuits for both sending and receiving is within the scope of the present disclosure.

The monitoring device can include firmware which supports automated monitoring and reporting of signals passing through the system from a sensing device to the display device on the watercraft. The monitoring device can detect a signal without degrading the signal so that it is not usable as intended. In an example the monitoring device non invasively senses the signal. In an example the monitoring device duplicates the signal and amplifies the signals for both its use and for passing the original signal to it subsequent destination. The signal sensed by monitoring device can be sent via transmitter which cause the antenna to broadcast the signal to the monitoring system provider . Information related to other events can be detected stored and transmitted by the monitoring device . The monitoring device can automatically report data relating to the signal. In an example the monitoring device can also record the signal in the data storage for later transmission. The monitoring system or just the monitoring device can be mounted intermediate the sensor and the on board display.

The monitoring device can include processors that execute applications which are instructions stored on computer readable media. The local processing capability of the monitoring can perform simple and complex logic including but not limited to power management communication management data storage encrypted communication and or real time clock processing and management.

The wiring harness includes in an example a string of cables and or wires which transmit electrical signals or operating currents between other components. By binding wires and cables into a cable harness the wires and cables are secured against the adverse effects of vibrations abrasions and moisture. By constricting the wires into a non flexing bundle usage of space is optimized and the risk of a short circuit is decreased. The wires bundled in the wiring harness can be connected to various parts of the watercraft to transmit various signals from sensor to the antenna or through the wiring harness .

The sensors can be installed at various locations of the watercraft . The sensors can measure positioning of the watercraft weather light conditions date temperature air and water imagers air pressure etc. To communicate the sensed data to the monitoring device the sensors can also utilize short range radio communications protocol e.g. IEEE 802.15.4 or other short range wireless technologies or communicate over a wired connection.

All of the example components of the monitoring system can be provided inside an enclosure . The enclosure is in an example a metal housing that is sealed against dirt grime dust and moisture that are generated outdoors and on watercraft. It will be noted that the monitoring system is not bound to a particular monitoring system provider. Any hardware that can successfully interface with the monitoring system can be utilized as the monitoring system provider . In an example the enclosure is water proof e.g. able to withstand water pressure down to 10 meters 50 meters or 100 meters. The monitoring system can in some example embodiments be specifically designed for the watercraft or for a specific transponder display combination.

As shown in the method can commence at operation with the data communication module receiving data related to the operation of the watercraft environmental data water data or the sensed data from the monitoring system. The data received by the communication module can include the positional and operational data associated with the watercraft or sensed data related to the environment around the watercraft or to sensed data relating to the body of water. The positional data can be obtained using the Global Positioning System GPS or a cellular triangulation system by the monitoring system installed on the watercraft and transmitted to the monitoring system provider . The data can be made available over a network from the monitoring system service provider using an appropriate protocol e.g. Web Services .

Examples of watercraft operational data include but are not limited to velocity direction an ignition key ON event an ignition key OFF event fish caught event kept fish event throw back fish event a location a fuel efficiency e.g. fuel burn calculation an idle time trolling time a fishing production statistics a watercraft preventive maintenance schedule and a watercraft maintenance history. Sensed data can include weather data time and date data transponder settings data depth data broadcast signal data and raw return signal data. Other data of interest is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 222 449 which is hereby incorporated by reference for any purpose. However if U.S. Pat. No. 6 222 449 conflicts with the present disclosure the present disclosure controls interpretation. The data can be received via a network cellular and or a satellite network at the monitoring system service provider and then pulled by the monitoring system processor .

In some examples described above information cannot be transmitted immediately from the monitoring system to the monitoring service provider due to for example a temporary unavailability of the satellite and or the cellular network . The monitoring system can store information until communication over one of the networks between the monitoring system and the monitoring system service provider is restored. If the communication is disrupted due to the watercraft moving out of the coverage area the monitoring system can be removed from the watercraft and brought back into the coverage area. Alternatively the watercraft can be moved into the coverage area. Once the communications are restored the monitoring system can transmit information to the monitoring service provider . In another example the data is stored in a mobile memory device such as portable hard drive a flash memory device a thumbdrive a NOR type memory device optical media e.g. disks magnetic media e.g. disks or other portable machine readable media and connected to a further device that can communicate to the monitoring system processor .

At operation the data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can relate the positional data to the operational data or the body of water data to accurately determine characteristics relating to the excursion. The data interpreting module can also relate the environmental data to the body of water data. Date and time data can be correlated to any of the other received data. At operation the data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can perform analysis of the related data to provide time and date specific data. The analysis can include trend data and statistics. The trend data can be a map that shows the underwater features of the body of water over time. Additional data can be fishing performance over time and location on the body of water. This data can be computed ahead of time or computed on a real time basis as requested by a user. The data can also be computed on a site specific basis as a sub unit of a body of water. In some example embodiments a relationship between the fishing performance and the site specific data can be included in the reports . The computed data can include the performance of an individual angler over a period of time and not site specific. All of the computed data can be stored in the database .

The data interpreting module of the monitoring system processor can intelligently interpret the data from the watercraft in view of the operational data. Any event having a low probability of occurring in view of the positional data associated with the watercraft or in view of one or more of other events occurring in the same or nearly the same time can be eliminated as false. For example the data analyzing module can determine that at the time of the reported data loading event the watercaft was not operational or operational for a period of time which is too short for the loading to occur.

Thus the reported loading event can be evaluate as false if the data related to the operational status e.g. motor or eco sounding device shows that the watercraft was still at a start location such as a dock. In another example embodiment the data analyzing module can compare the performance data of the watercraft to the positional data to determine whether at the time of the reported data events the watercraft was present at a site. In an example a data collection operator such as a state or Federal official Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Agency Department of Interior Army Corp. of Engineers USGS etc. or academic may have a watercraft with sensors at a the respective job site. If the watercraft and hence sensors was not present at the respective job site the reported event can be eliminated as false. In some example embodiments the data analyzing module can analyze the performance data to ensure that each data event is followed by an appropriate later data event.

At operation a report generating module of the monitoring system processor can provide a report that includes the operational characteristic and the performance output. In some example embodiments the report can be accessed by an authorized user via a computer interface. In some other example embodiments a digital copy of the report can be sent to a predetermined user via an electronic mail. The report can summarize the performance output of the watercaft or be related to a specific area of operational characteristics. For example the report can be related to production data associated with the watercaft .

Databases stored at either at the operator s computer or the authorized user s computer as well as the monitoring system database can store the reports generated according to the methods and systems described herein. The databases are stored on tangible computer readable media such are magnetic media electronic storage devices optical storage devices etc. The databases can be stored in formats that are accessible by electronic communication devices.

The method described herein can produce reports about a body of water. The method includes receiving data from a monitor on a body of water the data including positional data and sensed data relating the positional data and sensed data sending the data to a remote processing system and providing a report using the data. In an example relating positional data and sensed data includes receiving sensed data from a transponder and not controlling the generation of the exciting signal using a processor correlating the sensed data to time and date data. In an example sending data includes conditioning data for transmission and wirelessly communicating the data to the remote processing system. In an example receiving data includes sensing bidirectional data to and from a transponder such that the bidirectional signal remains in a condition usable for its intended purpose. In an example providing a report includes limiting access to some of the data to the user who caused the data to be sensed. In an example providing the report includes sending the report over an electronic network.

A fishing course report is shown at . The fishing course report can be based on historic fishing data for a given body of water. The report can be produced by an electronic computing system or machine using the data sensed in a particular body of water. In an example professional outdoor guides can use the present device to provide data that is used to create a fishing course. The fishing course can be based on the day of the year the time of day the weather conditions the type of fish or any other data described herein. A fishing course report could be purchased by a user after it is produced by outdoor guide. In an example the guide provides the report and allows it to be sold through a website hosted on a server that can also produce the reports.

The echo location device of an example of the present disclosure includes a main unit a power source and a transmitter receiver . The power source powers the main unit and the transmitter receiver . The power source can be a battery or can be a power generator onboard the watercraft . The main unit includes electronics and a visual display . The display can be a liquid crystal display device with greater than 2.5 inch diagonal dimension and can have at least 128 colors and a resolution of 480 480 pixels. The electronics of the main unit is connected by an electrical conductor to the transmitter receiver. In an example the main unit electronics produce a signal that is transmitted by electrical conductor to the transmitter receiver . In an example the signal has 2 4000 watts peak to peak power on 200 kHz or 4 000 watts on a dual frequency. In an example the transmitter receiver is a transducer that converts an electrical signal to an acoustic signal and transmits the acoustic signal into the water. The transmitter receiver further receives acoustic signals in response to the transmitted signal. The received signals are converted into electrical signals by the transmitter receiver and sent via the electrical conductor to the main unit . The monitoring device is positioned adjacent the electrical conductor and senses the signals passing therethrough. The sensed signals are stored by the monitoring device and sent to the monitoring system processor or to the database . When transmitting electronics of the main unit pulses a signal e.g. greater than 200 watts and greater than 200 kHz. A transducer is a specific example of a transmitter receiver . As shown at least part of the transducer is positioned outside the watercraft and in the water. The transducer converts electrical energy into sound and mechanical energy e.g. movement of the water. The transmitted sound and mechanical energy encounter obstacles in the water and are partially reflected back to the transducer. The wave output by the transmitter receiver can be ultrasonic and travel through water at approximately 4800 ft 1500 meters per second. When the sound wave strikes an underwater object fish or lake bed part of the sound wave is reflected back towards the transmitter receiver in a specific example the transducer. The depth of the object or the lake bed is determined by calculating the time difference between the initial transmission of a sound wave and the receipt of the reflected sound wave. The result of the reflected sound wave can be converted into a display and shown on the display screen. The transducer received the reflected mechanical energy and converts it into electrical energy which is then transmitted on conductor to the main unit. The main unit can process and display these electrical pulses on the screen display to shown structure and fish. The monitoring device senses or intercepts these signals between the main unit and the transmitter receiver . In an alternate example the monitoring device is plugged into the electrical conductor which also extends between the main unit and the transmitter receiver . In an alternate example the monitoring device is plugged into the electrical conductor which also extends between the main unit and the transmitter receiver . The monitoring device sends data back to the database over communication channel s which can include at least one of an electrical connection the satellite network a cellular network or a computer network. In a further example the main unit can communicate data to the database over communication channel s which can include at least one of an electrical connection the satellite network a cellular network or a computer network.

In an example monitoring device is a splitter that operates in the desired frequency range of the echo location device . The splitter can split the signals traveling to and from the main unit and the transponder with minimal if any loss between the main unit and the transponder . In an example the ports in the monitoring device match the impedance of the ports of both the main unit and the transponder . In an example the impedance is 50 kOhms. The splitter circuit can include an amplifier to amplify the split signal from the bi directional signals from the main unit and the transponder .

The echo location device and particularly the main unit can include machine readable media ports e.g. slots to receive portable memory devices such as static media e.g. magnetic media electronic media MMC SD . These portable memory devices can be loaded with maps and data from the database . Such data and maps can be displayed on the display of the main unit . In an example the port is a powered electronic device port e.g. a universal serial port USB . The port can power a mobile data device such as a flash memory drive or stick. The data can be ported to a mobile memory unit which can then be connected to a reader that sends the data to a processing server.

The main electronics can include a processors and electronic memory to store data. The main electronics can optionally include navigational positioning unit to sense the position of the device and positionally stamp e.g. store positional data with the sensed data the data sensed by the monitoring device . Accordingly the position of the device at the time of data detection is known. The position data can be used to plot a course on the body of water based at least in part on the variable data detected by the device .

A user data input is provided and interacts with the electronics to allow a user to highlight certain data for later input of additional data. In an example the input is a switch that is activated by a user. In the data the activation of the switch is indicated. The user can access the data and enter additional data at the activation flag in the data.

Data processed by the main electronics and stored in memory can be sampled and digitized to accurately and efficiently process the transponder signals. In an example analog signals are processed and then digitized at a sufficient sample rate to preserve the information in the signal. The digitized signal is saved as sampled binary file in accordance with the Nyquist Theorem so that the sonar wave can be recreated using the sampled data on the present device or at a remote computing device. In an example it is also desirable to reduce the quantity of redundant data. The positional data can be used to either trigger a data sample control the sample rate or to prevent data samples from being taken. In an example the main electronics prevents creation or storage of data until the position unit indicates that the watercraft has moved at least one meter or more than 1.5 meters. The main electronics can further operate to flag locations where data has already been created and use that prior data using the positional data from the positioning unit. Using some of the above the memory and the processing can be efficiently used by employing the above functions.

Monitoring device includes a transponder jack that has a plurality of connections here three connections. The first and second connections a bidirectional connects that connect the main unit with the transponder for bidirectional communication. The third connection is an output only connection that is connected to other components of the monitoring device to sense the signals be transmitted by the main unit and the transponder . The third connection is a tap that allows the monitoring device to sense the signals being passed between the main unit and transponder . The third connection is essentially lossless to the signals being passed at the first and second connections. The signal from the third connection is passed to a central data processor . The processor can correlate this signal with other signals and data. The processor can further determine the types of processing needed for example signal amplification. Processor can further act an analog to digital converter and output digital signals to an internal memory . The internal memory can be dynamic memory static memory a hard drive solid state memory flash memory etc. Internal memory stores the data relating to the signal tapped at the transponder jack . Internal memory outputs the data to at least one of a wireless data processor or an external memory processor . The internal memory further stores an identification code that uniquely identifies the monitoring device . The identification code can be sent at the beginning of each data download or send from the monitoring device . This uniquely identities the data to a specific device and user. Some of the data e.g. fish location fish catch types of fish travel route other personal data etc. is then only accessible by the user. Some data e.g. the contour of the floor of the body of water obstacles in the water vegetation in the water can be available to other users. The wireless data processor can be a satellite system device or a cellular device or any other wireless signal processor. Data processor converts the data to a form for broadcast. A signal booster receives the broadcast formatted data from the data processor and broadcasts the data over an antenna . Signal booster and antenna are both configured for the format of the broadcast e.g. satellite or cellular or other IEEE standards etc.

Data can also be retrieved from the monitoring device by direct connection to memory devices wired computer communication or plug in broadcast devices e.g. a cellular telephone. External memory processor can receive data from the internal memory . Processor formats the data for output over a connection . In an example connection is a USB port 1.0 or 2.0 serial port firewire port etc. As a result monitoring system has a plurality of communication means to download the data to external computing systems.

A sensor array is connected to the monitoring device . The sensor array can sense various characteristics around the watercraft and send the data to the monitoring system which in turn can send the sensed data to the monitoring system processor and monitoring system database e.g. and not shown in . In an example a further jack is provided on the monitoring device whereat the sensor array plugs into the monitoring device . The sensor array can include a temperature sensor . The temperature sensor can sense at least one of the air temperature and the water temperature. A navigational positioning sensor senses the position of the watercraft. Sensor can sense the signals from at least one of the navigational systems including a global navigation satellite system GNSS such as Global Positioning System GPS Beidou COMPASS Galileo GLONASS Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS or QZSS. The sensor can further use Real Time Kinematic RTK satellite navigation to provide the real time corrections of the positioning signal down to a centimeter level of accuracy. The GPS sensor is a receiver that receives differential correction signals in North American from the FAA s WAAS satellites. A pressure sensor can sense the barometric pressure. A light sensor can sense at least one of the light conditions of the air or the water. A data and time device can provide accurate date and time information. Any of this data can be correlated with the transponder data by the central data processor of the monitoring device .

The device can include a user input . The user input allows a user to highlight or flag a certain event in the data that is being stored in the device for later download to a remote electronic processing system. The user input can be single tactical response device engagable by the user. The user input can be a switch or button that can be activated by the user e.g. the fisherman at the device . A flag or other indicator is stored in the data. The user can later access the data and additional data to the stored data. In a further example the input is a fishing logging device e.g. the device described in US Patent publication no. 2004 0249860. The input device collect data from the user e.g. fish caught data fish type data number of fish caught data environment data e.g. cloud cover number of boats nearby activity of the body of water etc. and store this data with the automatically sensed data. is a block diagram of a monitoring system according to an example embodiment of the present invention. System is similar to system and like devices are identified with like reference numbers. Some detail relating to the like devices is not repeated for clarity. System includes an external connector that connects the transponder to the main unit . Connector is a universal adapter that is external to the monitoring device . Connector includes three connections and . The first and second connections are bidirectional and connect the main unit with the transponder . The third connection is an output only connection that is connected to an input of the monitoring device . The input inputs the data to at least one of the central data processor or the external memory processor . Thus the monitoring device via the connector and input received the signals passing through the connector to and from the main unit and transponder . In an example the third connection is essentially lossless to the signals being passed at the first and second connections . The connection and the input can be USB ports 1.0 or 2.0 serial ports firewire ports etc.

The central data processor and the external memory processor communicate data with each other to share the processing load. Each can also access the internal memory .

In an example the connector includes memory that can store the signal for output on the third connection .

The transponder described herein is usually referred to as a singular device. It should be recognized that the multiple transponders can be used if they are operating on different frequencies. Moreover the transmitting and receiving parts of the transponder can be separate components. Multiple transponders can provide multiple angles or multiple views. A transponder typically has a single beam cone that measures 14 degrees at 3 dB. Transponders can operate within a range of about 2 kHz of their set operating frequency. In an example a transponder operating at a frequency of 192 kHz will have a range from about 190 kHz to about 194 kHz. A 200 kHz transponder will have a range from about 198 kHz to about 202 kHz. Some transponders can operate in a range of 6 kHz. At least one of the transponders operates in the 50 kHz to 200 kHz range.

Using system or the users at computers or at processor can select the layers of data that they would like in a report. The layers can be any type of data that is described herein. The layers can include all of the data for a particular trip or water body. However only the layer of the data selected is shown in a report . The other data may be present in an electronic file but is not displayed on reports .

The processor and or the positioning module can execute control instructions to select when the positioning data is taken and stored in the memory . In one implementation positioning data is taken at a select interval. In an implementation the positioning data is only stored once the position changes. If no position data is provided with data then the prior stored position is assumed to be the current position 

The processor and or the positioning module can execute control instructions to determine when other readings can be taken. In one example a change in the positioning coordinates as determined by the positioning module will trigger a depth reading. Other water or weather data can also be triggered based at least in part on a change in coordinates. A change in coordinates can be set so that a change in the position based on a foot or a plurality of feet will trigger a reading. In an example a change in position of about 1.5 meters will trigger a reading and a data save function. In an example a change of tens of feet are required. In an example the position change required to trigger a reading is set to be the same as the range chosen for a given report.

Data processed by the processor in memory can be sampled and digitized to accurately and efficiently process the transponder signals. In an example analog signals are processed and then digitized at a sufficient sample rate to preserve the information in the analog signal. The digitized signal is saved as sampled binary file in accordance with the Nyquist Theorem so that the sonar analog wave can be recreated using the sampled data on the present device or at a remote computing device. In an example it is also desirable to reduce the quantity of redundant data. The positional data from the positioning module can be used to either trigger a data sample control the sample rate or to prevent data samples from being taken. In an example the positioning module can prevents creation or storage of data until it determines that the watercraft has moved at least one meter or more than 1.5 meters. The processing module can further operate to flag locations where the watercraft has already traveled. Using this flag the processor can use data that has already been created for that location. Using some of the above the memory and the processing by both the positioning module and processor can be efficiently used.

The processor and or the positioning module can execute control instructions to prevent readings from being taken or data being stored in memory. In an example readings and data storage for certain data is prevented from reading or being stored until the positioning module determines that the device and hence the boat has moved a specified distance e.g. feet meters yards etc. In an example readings are blocked until the device has moved 1.5 meters.

The control of the data collection can save memory space by not duplicating readings that are not necessary. To further control data collection the time of day can be used with the positional data to control data acquisition.

In an example the communication module and the power module can be part of the same port e.g. using the universal serial bus standard. In this example the system only requires a single port which is desirable when used on watercraft. More specifically only one port that doubles as the power supply port and the data transfer port to a communication server or portable memory. The single port can connect to a boat power source or a 12V battery and the regulation module can dissipate unneeded volts. Using the single port for both power and data additional ports and hence inlets into the device are not needed thereby improving the water resistant nature of the design.

The reports and can be processed trips that are physically or electronically published. Such trip reports and other reports can be sold. For example from a website or via a mobile device application. In an example users can share or sell their trip reports as guides. The user creates the guide report by logging into the computing system whereat the data is stored. The user can select the data and design a report e.g. a guide report. Once the user creates which can be from a template stored on the computing system the user creates the trip report. In an example the users that can publish trip reports must be pre approved e.g. a licensed fishing or outdoor guide. In an example the user must explicitly list information about the trip including but not limited to number of reports trips they wish to create and or sell targeted species an overall description contextualize various areas of the trip etc.

When trip reports are being prepared for sale as opposed to personal memorials of trips a price points must be determined for any individual trip report. Various factors can be used and stored as instructions in the computing system to automatically determine report pricing. These instructions can include but are not limited to total number of trips for sale by a user total number of fishing guides on a specific body of water total number of hours in trip time of year e.g. seasonality time of day covered by report time of day of sale moon phases type of species pursued number of existing trips left for sale etc.

Trip reports can include the following features. Waypoints can be highlighted with context from images sonar data guide comments direct GPS location data etc. Certain waypoints can be suppressed to hide proprietary information such as extremely sensitive fishing locations. Time stamps will be used to indicate the time that each GPS coordinate was matched to the transducer sound data. Time can inform users of the report exactly when the report creator s fishing vessel was in that location or waypoint.

Reports can also show detailed aggregate bottom and structure contours. Instructions executed on the computing system can process and re process of the same dataset to ensure accuracy and precision of the data and positioning data GPS . For example the present data sets can more precisely correlate water body data to position data. As a result bottom definition becomes more accurate and clear as the coverage e.g. collected and stored data of the water body increases. Structure degradation can be reported through use of temporal trend features and managed by planting more cribs trees structures. As a result government agencies can better manage these changes. The reports can be dynamic maps enable users to zoom view 3D and customize maps. Such dynamic maps can further use essentially real time data. When using real time maps or selecting data for creating reports users through the computing system can set the contour intervals at which the report provides meaningful data e.g. 4 contours or 1 contours and use the appropriate fill for their vision and interpretation capabilities some users enjoy simple maps others enjoy complex maps .

Aggregate data from multiple sources e.g. multiple users third party sources government sources can be used from all trips that store data in the present system. Example include but not limited to temporal trend analysis time sensitive analysis of the transformation of various structures e.g. contours weed beds marked fish etc. Such aggregate data can be used to report any major changes to a waterbed s distinct characteristics over time. In an example the aggregate data can be used to identify at least one of invasive species identification extensive weed bed expansion or contraction over use of fertilizers chemicals or other products used to increase decrease desired land based flora over harvesting of fish resources trending marked fish over time etc.

The present system can further provide trend data that has heretofore not been available. For example traffic on each water body can be determined on a temporal basis. Moreover the traffic data can be indicated on the reports.

Other reports can include water levels of the given water bodies through median mean and mode analysis of duplicate data records.

The data and reports described herein can be used to proactive manage a fisheries resources and government regulations set by natural resources management. This can allow various governmental agencies to more efficiently manage water resources under their jurisdiction by providing improved data and reports so that such an agency has extensive and clear data to ensure proper individual management of fisheries and water bodies.

The data described herein can be various forms of data relating to water bodies and fishing. In an example a raw sound wave data can be processed to derive various information can be derived from the sound wave data. In an example dynamic sensitivity settings can be configured during run time processing to determine at least one of composition of the bottom density of bottom depth weeds on bottom weeds off bottom structures on bottom structures off bottom location of structures dimensions of structures fish data bait fish data thermocline data and surface temperature. Locations of objects can be determined using differential positioning data. The processor can further operate on the raw data to derive other data for example speed of watercraft and direction of watercraft vehicle. In memory each data entity is stored as an individual record in a database to enable a layering functionality of each set of information. Layering can operate to show on a report many types of information including but not limited to data location data type fish weed bottom and or other data described herein data date data time data collected by user etc.

The present devices systems and methods can pull or receive data e.g. 950 from third parties for example Continuously Operating Reference Stations CORS Trimble systems Farmers Almanac data government sources etc. and correlated this data to each set of uploaded data known as a trip in a report . External data or third party data can include weather characteristics e.g. barometric pressure precipitation temperature cloud cover moon phase wind speed wind direction differential adjustments Receiver Independent Exchange Format RINEX data forum data fishing reports social networking data e.g. Twitter Facebook MySpace other mapping data. Other water body data can also be used to interpret sensed data or produce meaningful reports. Other water body data includes but not limited to population demographics max depth acreage pressure water clarity oxygen level.

At the remote processor level e.g. at monitoring system processor computer computer the reports can be trip reports that are provided back to the user who gathered the data for customization interaction and viewing. Customization can include adding photos custom notes and content to the trip. The user can further use single trip data or aggregate self collected data as desired. The trip data can be shared with others. Users can create reports that aggregate water body data shared public and self collected data including but not limited to complete bottom composition complete depth static hard structures or other data related to their trip of water body of interest. Reports can also provide temporal water body data which was analyzed in view of a historical perspective of changes to a particular lake or location through manual or automated detection. Historical data can include but is not limited to marked fish bait fish weed bed growth or recession seasonal or invasive species analysis thermocline and erosion.

The example computer system includes a processor or multiple processors e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU arithmetic logic unit or all and a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system can further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal displays LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. instructions embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processors during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processors also constitute machine readable media.

The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP CAN Serial or Modbus .

While the computer readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present application or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and signals that can be read or sensed by a computer. Such media can also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The example embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software programs for implementing the present method can be written in any number of suitable programming languages such as for example Hyper text Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL Document Style Semantics and Specification Language DSSSL Cascading Style Sheets CSS Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL Wireless Markup Language WML Java Jini C C Perl UNIX Shell Visual Basic or Visual Basic Script Virtual Reality Markup Language VRML ColdFusion or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

While many examples are described above that use a watercraft to source data it will be recognized within the present invention to source some data from electronic databases sense data from the ground sense data from aircraft sense data from satellites. These other sources of data can be integrated into the database e.g. database . These other sources of data can be analyzed and integrated into watercraft sensed data to improve the reports provided to users. This will increase the robustness of the data and result in greater depth reports.

A fish logging unit can be used on the watercraft and connected to the monitoring system . An example of a fish logging unit is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 222 449 which is incorporated herein by reference for any purpose. However if the description in U.S. Pat. No. 6 222 449 conflicts with the present disclosure the present disclosure controls interpretation.

The inventors of the present disclosure identified a need to allow anglers to track every ounce of information that is already feeding into their electronic devices to dramatically improve their learning curve for fishing locations across the country and throughout the world. Over the course of a fishing season or even a day an angler with systems devices and methods described herein will gather more information than if they had a stenographer in the boat. The anglers will discover and save more information about a lake over a few trips out on the water than one would gain in a lifetime of trial and error or a thousand guided trips. Moreover the data collected can be raw data that can be processed by future algorithms scientific laws and statistics or any future trends in data collection and analysis. However some examples of the present description are used with current technology on watercraft. If devices become more accurate or collect additional data the present systems and methods can accommodate new trends in the industry.

The systems methods and devices described herein can provide real time mapping of underwater features of a body of water. This mapping can be provided to the watercraft or other users. It will be appreciated that some embodiments of the present invention do not provide its own display and must rely on displays of other electronic equipment. Such electronic equipment can be remote from the sensing equipment. In an example a signal interception device transmits the data from a watercraft signal input and sends the signal to systems as described herein. The signal interception device can split a signal from a transponder or a transceiver before it reaches a further electronic signal processing unit. In an example the signal interception device can be retrofitted on existing equipment. The signal interception device can operate without manual input. The data can be collected and if needed processed for display at locations remote from the watercraft.

One use of the presently described systems and methods are monitoring device that is part of a sport fishing system that enables its user to intercept and upload information communicated between a transducer e.g. an eco sounding device and the display unit e.g. a fish finder . The uploaded data will be sent to centralized behavioral computing and geo mapping database which then processes this data into useful fishing information that will be provided back to the owner of monitoring device. The useful information can be provided through a variety of interactive media. The device can then collect the variable underwater data sensed by the transducer. Underwater data can include but is not limited to vegetation bottom composition and structure fish depth density and bait fish. Other data can include navigational position data e.g. longitude and latitude. The device can further accept user input data.

In an example the monitoring device gathers data received from an existing transducer to track variable underwater data including but not limited to weed beds bottom composition and structure fish depth density and bait fish. The monitoring device can utilize the data collected to render a frameset of the scrolling interface matched against a navigation position plotted location. The monitoring device will intercept and split the data stream coming from the transducer with a custom component adapter. In an example the monitoring device can include an adapter that is agnostic and usable with any transducer depth finder combination. The monitoring device is easily installed in any fishing boat by inserting between the depth finder and its transducer. Information from the transducer is split at the device where unaffected data is allowed to continue on to the depth finder while the bifurcated data is transmitted via wireless or satellite data communication to the remote servers. The information sent from a user s boat is adapted to existing maps to provide among other features real time mapping updates trip tracking marked fish and structure updates. All of these features will be coordinated with additional variables collected to provide a log of historical data that will allow a fishing enthusiast to refer to previously collected data for the most accurate information and highest probability of finding fish.

The monitoring device can begin monitoring immediately after it is plugged into the transmission path between the transponder and display device. Accordingly fishermen can generate their own comprehensive fishing information from a data collection depth finder that already exists in their boats.

An electronic data processing system such a computer or a server can receive and store the data. The system can then apply behavioral and geographic interpretation algorithms e.g. machine executable instructions on the data. Additional data can also be used in the algorithms to process the stored data. The processed data can be used to provide useful data regarding the body of water associated with the data. Examples of the processed data can be fishing trends or courses for fishing excursions. Users can access their own private data stored on the system. Other users will be able to access reports produced by other users. Reports can be electronic documents that can be displayed on user electronic devices e.g. mobile phones tablet computers netbook computers fishing displays etc. The reports can be virtual fishing guides.

This has been a detailed description of some exemplary embodiments of the invention s contained within the disclosed subject matter. Such invention s may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. The detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which shows by way of illustration but not of limitation some specific embodiments of the invention including a preferred embodiment. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those of ordinary skill in the art to understand and implement the inventive subject matter. Other embodiments may be utilized and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

Other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The use of the term or in the present description should be interpreted as an non exclusive or unless otherwise stated.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of this invention may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the subjoined claims.

It is emphasized that for purposes of the United States the Abstract is provided to comply with 36 C.F.R. 1.62 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

