---

title: Controlling in-vehicle computing system based on contextual data
abstract: Embodiments are disclosed for systems and methods for controlling operation of an in-vehicle computing system. In some embodiments, an in-vehicle computing system includes a processor, an external device interface communicatively coupleable to an extra-vehicle server, and a storage device storing instructions executable by the processor to receive information from a navigation subsystem and one or more sensors of the vehicle. The information may include user information identifying one or more occupants of the vehicle with one or more accounts of a social media network. The instructions may also be executable to send the received information to the server, receive instructions from the server, and transmit control instructions to one or more vehicle systems based on the identified action. The instructions may identify an action to be performed based on the received information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09188449&OS=09188449&RS=09188449
owner: Harman International Industries, Incorporated
number: 09188449
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131206
---
The disclosure relates to an in vehicle computing system and associated controls based on combining contextual data from multiple data sources.

A user experience within a vehicle may be generated and or augmented by an in vehicle computing system configured to control one or more systems within the vehicle. For example the in vehicle computing system may present media navigational assistance and or other information to occupants of the vehicle via a speaker system and or one or more display systems. Often in vehicle computing system operation is controlled based on user input. Vehicles may be equipped with a wide array of sensors for monitoring vehicle status driver and or passenger behavior vehicle environment and other data. The in vehicle computing system may be in communication with one or more of the vehicle sensors during operation.

The increasing popularity of social media networks and other account based web services has resulted in an accumulation of a vast array of knowledge regarding behaviors preferences demographics and other information for a user. Such information may provide insight into a status of the user and other contextual information associated with the user.

Embodiments are disclosed for in vehicle computing systems and methods of controlling vehicle systems based on contextual information. In example embodiments an in vehicle computing system includes a processor an external device interface communicatively coupleable to an extra vehicle server and a storage device storing instructions executable by the processor to receive information from a navigation subsystem and one or more sensors of the vehicle. The information may include user information identifying one or more occupants of the vehicle with one or more accounts of a social media network. The instructions may also be executable to send the received information to the server receive instructions from the server and transmit control instructions to one or more vehicle systems based on the identified action. The instructions may identify an action to be performed based on the received information.

In some embodiments a system for controlling an output of an in vehicle computing system of a vehicle may include a data integration subsystem that receives data from the in vehicle computing system and a content aggregator an analytics engine that analyzes the received data and a data persistence subsystem that manages analytics results from the analytics engine. The system may further include a rules engine that invokes rules responsive to an occurrence of one or more events based on analysis of the received data by the analytics engine the rules defining an instruction to control the output of the in vehicle computing system. The system may further include a service application programming interface API that can be used by application developers to provide information on the action to be performed by the in vehicle computing system to the driver and or passenger so that the action can be modified and or customized based on user inputs.

In some embodiments a method for controlling an output of an in vehicle computing system of a vehicle may include receiving at a server navigational information from a navigation system of the vehicle receiving at the server aggregated information from one or more user accounts associated with a driver of the vehicle and determining a cognitive load of the driver of the vehicle based on the navigational information and the aggregated information. The method may further include responsive to determining that the cognitive load of the driver is above a threshold transmitting an instruction to the in vehicle computing system to prevent an increase in cognitive load and or decrease a cognitive load on the driver in accordance with a rule set.

In vehicle computing systems may be connected to various information sources e.g. sensors devices etc. in order to combine and analyze data from these sources within a context of the vehicle status vehicle environment driver information and or other real time contextual events or conditions. The real time contextual data may be leveraged during in vehicle computing system operation to provide a user experience that is at once adaptive and rules driven. By adjusting in vehicle computing system behavior responsive to a context of the vehicle driver that is derived from a plurality of information sources the in vehicle computing system may provide more autonomous and accurate operation than in vehicle computing systems that rely primarily on user input and a more limited amount of data gathering. Using the data collected by the in vehicle computing system the system may select vehicle settings e.g. climate control settings audio system settings etc. provide targeted output e.g. display relevant information communicate with and or control other devices etc. and or perform other actions that enhance the user experience.

As shown an instrument panel may include various displays and controls accessible to a driver also referred to as the user of vehicle . For example instrument panel may include a touch screen of an in vehicle computing system e.g. an infotainment system an audio system control panel and an instrument cluster . While the example system shown in includes audio system controls that may be performed via a user interface of in vehicle computing system such as touch screen without a separate audio system control panel in other embodiments the vehicle may include an audio system control panel which may include controls for a conventional vehicle audio system such as a radio compact disc player MP3 player etc. The audio system controls may include features for controlling one or more aspects of audio output via speakers of a vehicle speaker system. For example the in vehicle computing system or the audio system controls may control a volume of audio output a distribution of sound among the individual speakers of the vehicle speaker system an equalization of audio signals and or any other aspect of the audio output. In further examples in vehicle computing system may adjust a radio station selection a playlist selection a source of audio input e.g. from radio or CD or MP3 etc. based on user input received directly via touch screen or based on data regarding the user such as a physical state and or environment of the user received via external devices and or mobile device .

In some embodiments one or more hardware elements of in vehicle computing system such as touch screen a display screen various control dials knobs and buttons memory processor s and any interface elements e.g. connectors or ports may form an integrated head unit that is installed in instrument panel of the vehicle. The head unit may be fixedly or removably attached in instrument panel . In additional or alternative embodiments one or more hardware elements of the in vehicle computing system may be modular and may be installed in multiple locations of the vehicle.

Instrument cluster may include various gauges such as a fuel gauge tachometer speedometer and odometer as well as indicators and warning lights. A steering wheel may project from the instrument panel below instrument cluster . Optionally steering wheel may include controls which may be used in conjunction with touch screen to navigate features of an in vehicle computing system and to control the in vehicle computing system. In addition to the components depicted in it will be appreciated that instrument panel may include additional components such as door and window controls a cigarette lighter which may also be used as a low voltage power outlet a glove compartment and or any other suitable elements. In one or more embodiments control of in vehicle climate such as cabin temperature via climate control system vents may be performed using touch screen and thus no separate climate control interface may be included in instrument panel . In alternative embodiments however a separate climate control interface may be provided.

The cabin may include one or more sensors for monitoring the vehicle the user and or the environment. For example the cabin may include one or more seat mounted pressure sensors configured to measure the pressure applied to the seat to determine the presence of a user. The cabin may include one or more door sensors configured to monitor door activity such as the opening and or closing of the door the locking of the door the operation of a window of the door and or any other suitable door activity event. A humidity sensor may be included to measure the humidity content of the cabin. A microphone may be included to receive user input in the form of voice commands to enable a user to conduct telephone calls and or to measure ambient noise in the cabin . It is to be understood that the placement of the sensors illustrated in is exemplary and one or more additional or alternative sensors may be positioned in any suitable location of the vehicle. For example additional sensors may be positioned in an engine compartment on an external surface of the vehicle and or in other suitable locations for providing information regarding the operation of the vehicle ambient conditions of the vehicle a user of the vehicle etc. Information regarding ambient conditions of the vehicle vehicle status or vehicle driver may also be received from sensors external to separate from the vehicle that is not part of the vehicle system such as from sensors coupled to external devices and or mobile device .

Cabin may also include one or more user objects such as mobile device that are stored in the vehicle before during and or after travelling. The mobile device may include a smart phone a tablet a laptop computer a portable media player and or any suitable mobile computing device. The mobile device may be connected to the in vehicle computing system via communication link . The communication link may be wired e.g. via Universal Serial Bus USB Mobile High Definition Link MHL High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI etc. or wireless e.g. via BLUETOOTH WI FI Near Field Communication NFC cellular connectivity etc. and configured to provide two way communication between the mobile device and the in vehicle computing system. For example the communication link may provide sensor and or control signals from various vehicle systems such as vehicle audio system climate control system etc. and the touch screen to the mobile device and may provide control and or display signals from the mobile device to the in vehicle systems and the touch screen . The communication link may also provide power to the mobile device from an in vehicle power source in order to charge an internal battery of the mobile device.

While the mobile device is illustrated as being spatially separated from the in vehicle computing system and connected via a substantially external communication link e.g. a cable or radiofrequency signal it is to be understood that a slot or other storage structure may be formed in the instrument panel or other location in the vehicle to hold the mobile device in a particular location. The storage structure may include an integrated connector to which the mobile device may be attached or docked for providing a substantially internal communication link between the mobile device and the computing system.

In vehicle computing system may also be communicatively coupled to additional devices operated by the user but located external to vehicle such as one or more external devices . In the depicted embodiment external devices are located outside of vehicle though it will be appreciated that in alternate embodiments external devices may be located inside cabin . The external devices may include a server computing system personal computing system portable electronic device electronic wrist band electronic head band portable music player electronic activity tracking device pedometer smart watch GPS system etc. External devices may be connected to the in vehicle computing system via communication link which may be wired or wireless as discussed with reference to communication link and configured to provide two way communication between the external devices and the in vehicle computing system. For example external devices may include one or more sensors and communication link may transmit sensor output from external devices to in vehicle computing system and touch screen . External devices may also store and or receive information regarding contextual data user behavior preferences operating rules etc. and may transmit such information from the external devices to in vehicle computing system and touch screen .

In vehicle computing system may analyze the input received from external devices mobile device and or other input sources and select settings for various in vehicle systems such as climate control system or audio system provide output via touch screen and or speakers communicate with mobile device and or external devices and or perform other actions based on the assessment. In some embodiments all or a portion of the assessment may be performed by the mobile device and or the external devices .

In some embodiments one or more of the external devices may be communicatively coupled to in vehicle computing system indirectly via mobile device and or another of the external devices . For example communication link may communicatively couple external devices to mobile device such that output from external devices is relayed to mobile device . Data received from external devices may then be aggregated at mobile device with data collected by mobile device the aggregated data then transmitted to in vehicle computing system and touch screen via communication link . Similar data aggregation may occur at a server system and then transmitted to in vehicle computing system and touch screen via communication link .

The mash up server may include a data processing analytics engine and mash up logic processor to store and or interpret data from different sources in light of rules provided by a rule set provider . For example the rule set provider may utilize a rule set creation tool defined by and or in association with a webserver application programming interface API hosted by the mash up server . The creation tool may enable the rule set provider to define relationships between data from the vehicle and or external services and one or more actions. The rule set provider may include the driver or other user of the in vehicle computing system a manufacturer of the vehicle and or in vehicle computing system an application developer and or any other third party.

The mash up server may receive information from a content service aggregator which aggregates information from various media and or social media networks . For example the content service aggregator may receive and or access information associated with user accounts for one or more internet based services e.g. social media networks audio video subscription services consumer services etc. . The content service aggregator may provide and communicate with the mash up server via a webservices API e.g. a Representational State Transfer REST based API to transmit the aggregated content and or service information to the mash up server. For example the content service aggregator may send information related to one or more user calendars mail accounts social media feeds etc. The content service aggregator may also receive information from the mash up server in order to provide information based on the data received from the in vehicle computing system . In some embodiments the mash up server may send navigation data user input and or other information to target or otherwise request related information in the content service aggregator . For example the mash up server may send information related to a location of the vehicle and the content service aggregator may locate information from the various media social media networks to identify and send relevant data for points of interest near the location of the vehicle to the mash up server. Accordingly the mash up server may provide suggestions and or make decisions regarding the points of interest based on reviews or opinions published by the user and or friends of the user.

The mash up server may also receive information directly from other external services such as search tools map providers etc. Using the point of interest example provided above the mash up server may perform a search via one or more of the external services to identify points of interest and send the points of interest to the content service aggregator to request information related to the identified points of interest. It is to be understood that the scenarios described herein are exemplary and information may be received requested from any number of sources in any suitable order. For example the mash up server may receive information from the content service aggregator and one or more external services substantially simultaneously or utilize information received by one or more of the content service aggregator and the external services to request information from the content service aggregator and or external services. In some embodiments the mash up server may continually receive information from one or more sources and or from the in vehicle computing system in order to monitor for an event defined by the rule set provider . Received data may be stored on a storage device located in or communicatively connected to the mash up server in order to monitor the data over time.

In vehicle computing system may include one or more processors including an operating system processor and an interface processor . Operating system processor may execute an operating system on the in vehicle computing system and control input output display playback and other operations of the in vehicle computing system. Interface processor may interface with a vehicle control system via an inter vehicle system communication module .

Inter vehicle system communication module may output data to other vehicle systems and vehicle control elements while also receiving data input from other vehicle components and systems e.g. by way of vehicle control system . When outputting data inter vehicle system communication module may provide a signal via a bus corresponding to any status of the vehicle the vehicle surroundings or the output of any other information source connected to the vehicle. Vehicle data outputs may include for example analog signals such as current velocity digital signals provided by individual information sources such as clocks thermometers location sensors such as Global Positioning System GPS sensors etc. digital signals propagated through vehicle data networks such as an engine controller area network CAN bus through which engine related information may be communicated a climate control CAN bus through which climate control related information may be communicated and a multimedia data network through which multimedia data is communicated between multimedia components in the vehicle . For example the in vehicle computing system may retrieve from the engine CAN bus the current speed of the vehicle estimated by the wheel sensors a power state of the vehicle via a battery and or power distribution system of the vehicle an ignition state of the vehicle etc. In addition other interfacing means such as Ethernet may be used as well without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

A non volatile storage device may be included in in vehicle computing system to store data such as instructions executable by processors and in non volatile form. The storage device may store application data to enable the in vehicle computing system to run an application for connecting to and or pairing with a mobile device and or a wearable device. The application may then retrieve user information gathered by the mobile device and the wearable device. In vehicle computing system may further include a volatile memory . Volatile memory may be random access memory RAM . Non transitory storage devices such as non volatile storage device and or volatile memory may store instructions and or code that when executed by a processor e.g. operating system processor and or interface processor controls the in vehicle computing system to perform one or more of the actions described in the disclosure.

A microphone may be included in the in vehicle computing system to receive voice commands from a user and or to measure ambient noise in the vehicle and a speech processing unit may process the received voice commands. In some embodiments in vehicle computing system may also be able to receive voice commands and sample ambient vehicle noise using a microphone included in an audio system of the vehicle.

One or more additional sensors may be included in a sensor subsystem of the in vehicle computing system . For example the sensor subsystem may include a camera such as a rear view camera for assisting a user in parking the vehicle. Sensor subsystem of in vehicle computing system may communicate with and receive inputs from various vehicle sensors and may further receive user inputs. For example the inputs received by sensor subsystem may include transmission gear position transmission clutch position gas pedal input brake input transmission selector position vehicle speed engine speed mass airflow through the engine ambient temperature intake air temperature etc. as well as inputs from climate control system sensors such as heat transfer fluid temperature antifreeze temperature fan speed passenger compartment temperature desired passenger compartment temperature ambient humidity etc. an audio sensor detecting voice commands issued by a user a fob sensor receiving commands from and optionally tracking the geographic location proximity of a fob of the vehicle etc. While certain vehicle system sensors may communicate with sensor subsystem alone other sensors may communicate with both sensor subsystem and vehicle control system or may communicate with sensor subsystem indirectly via vehicle control system . A navigation subsystem of in vehicle computing system may generate and or receive navigation information such as location information e.g. via a GPS sensor and or other sensors from sensor subsystem route guidance traffic information point of interest POI identification and or provide other navigational services for the driver.

External device interface of in vehicle computing system may be coupleable to and or communicate with one or more external devices located external to vehicle . While the external devices are illustrated as being located external to vehicle it is to be understood that they may be temporarily housed in vehicle such as when the user is operating the external devices while operating vehicle . In other words the external devices are not integral to vehicle . The external devices may include a mobile device e.g. connected via a Bluetooth connection or an alternate Bluetooth enabled device . Mobile device may be a mobile phone smart phone wearable devices sensors that may communicate with the in vehicle computing system via wired and or wireless communication or other portable electronic device s . Other external devices include external services such as mash up server and telematics server of . For example the external devices may include extra vehicular devices that are separate from and located externally to the vehicle. Still other external devices include external storage devices such as solid state drives pen drives USB drives etc. External devices may communicate with in vehicle computing system either wirelessly or via connectors without departing from the scope of this disclosure. For example external devices may communicate with in vehicle computing system through the external device interface over network a universal serial bus USB connection a direct wired connection a direct wireless connection and or other communication link. The external device interface may provide a communication interface to enable the in vehicle computing system to communicate with mobile devices associated with contacts of the driver. For example the external device interface may enable phone calls to be established and or text messages e.g. SMS MMS etc. to be sent e.g. via a cellular communications network to a mobile device associated with a contact of the driver.

One or more applications may be operable on mobile device . As an example mobile device application may be operated to aggregate user data regarding interactions of the user with the mobile device. For example mobile device application may aggregate data regarding music playlists listened to by the user on the mobile device telephone call logs including a frequency and duration of telephone calls accepted by the user positional information including locations frequented by the user and an amount of time spent at each location etc. The collected data may be transferred by application to external device interface over network . In addition specific user data requests may be received at mobile device from in vehicle computing system via the external device interface . The specific data requests may include requests for determining where the user is geographically located an ambient noise level and or music genre at the user s location an ambient weather condition temperature humidity etc. at the user s location etc. Mobile device application may send control instructions to components e.g. microphone etc. or other applications e.g. navigational applications of mobile device to enable the requested data to be collected on the mobile device. Mobile device application may then relay the collected information back to in vehicle computing system .

Likewise one or more applications may be operable on external services . As an example external services applications may be operated to aggregate and or analyze data from multiple data sources. For example external services applications may aggregate data from one or more social media accounts of the user data from the in vehicle computing system e.g. sensor data log files user input etc. data from an internet query e.g. weather data POI data etc. The collected data may be transmitted to another device and or analyzed by the application to determine a context of the driver vehicle and environment and perform an action based on the context and a pre defined rule set. An example method of determining an action to be performed by an in vehicle computing system is discussed with reference to .

Vehicle control system may include controls for controlling aspects of various vehicle systems involved in different in vehicle functions. These may include for example controlling aspects of vehicle audio system for providing audio entertainment to the vehicle occupants aspects of climate control system for meeting the cabin cooling or heating needs of the vehicle occupants as well as aspects of telecommunication system for enabling vehicle occupants to establish telecommunication linkage with others.

Audio system may include one or more acoustic reproduction devices including electromagnetic transducers such as speakers. Vehicle audio system may be passive or active such as by including a power amplifier. In some examples in vehicle computing system may be the only audio source for the acoustic reproduction device or there may be other audio sources that are connected to the audio reproduction system e.g. external devices such as a mobile phone . The connection of any such external devices to the audio reproduction device may be analog digital or any combination of analog and digital technologies.

Climate control system may be configured to provide a comfortable environment within the cabin or passenger compartment of vehicle . Climate control system includes components enabling controlled ventilation such as air vents a heater an air conditioner an integrated heater and air conditioner system etc. Other components linked to the heating and air conditioning setup may include a windshield defrosting and defogging system capable of clearing the windshield and a ventilation air filter for cleaning outside air that enters the passenger compartment through a fresh air inlet.

Vehicle control system may also include controls for adjusting the settings of various vehicle controls or vehicle system control elements related to the engine and or auxiliary elements within a cabin of the vehicle such as steering wheel controls e.g. steering wheel mounted audio system controls cruise controls windshield wiper controls headlight controls turn signal controls etc. instrument panel controls microphone s accelerator brake clutch pedals a gear shift door window controls positioned in a driver or passenger door seat controls cabin light controls audio system controls cabin temperature controls etc. The control signals may also control audio output at one or more speakers of the vehicle s audio system . For example the control signals may adjust audio output characteristics such as volume equalization audio image e.g. the configuration of the audio signals to produce audio output that appears to a user to originate from one or more defined locations audio distribution among a plurality of speakers etc. Likewise the control signals may control vents air conditioner and or heater of climate control system . For example the control signals may increase delivery of cooled air to a specific section of the cabin.

Control elements positioned on an outside of a vehicle e.g. controls for a security system may also be connected to computing system such as via communication module . The control elements of the vehicle control system may be physically and permanently positioned on and or in the vehicle for receiving user input. In addition to receiving control instructions from in vehicle computing system vehicle control system may also receive input from one or more external devices operated by the user such as from mobile device . This allows aspects of vehicle systems and vehicle controls to be controlled based on user input received from the external devices .

In vehicle computing system may further include an antenna . Antenna is shown as a single antenna but may comprise one or more antennas in some embodiments. The in vehicle computing system may obtain broadband wireless internet access via antenna and may further receive broadcast signals such as radio television weather traffic and the like. The in vehicle computing system may receive positioning signals such as GPS signals via one or more antennas . The in vehicle computing system may also receive wireless commands via RF such as via antenna s or via infrared or other means through appropriate receiving devices. In some embodiments antenna may be included as part of audio system or telecommunication system . Additionally antenna may provide AM FM radio signals to external devices such as to mobile device via external device interface .

One or more elements of the in vehicle computing system may be controlled by a user via user interface . User interface may include a graphical user interface presented on a touch screen such as touch screen of and or user actuated buttons switches knobs dials sliders etc. For example user actuated elements may include steering wheel controls door and or window controls instrument panel controls audio system settings climate control system settings and the like. A user may also interact with one or more applications of the in vehicle computing system and mobile device via user interface . In addition to receiving a user s vehicle setting preferences on user interface vehicle settings selected by in vehicle control system may be displayed to a user on user interface . Notifications and other messages as well as navigational assistance may be displayed to the user on a display of the user interface. As elaborated below with respect to confirmation of actions performed in response to an event e.g. based on a rule set may be performed via user input to the user interface.

The server s and or the in vehicle computing system may access one or more rule sets defining a connection between a detected event and one or more actions. The event may be detected based on the data received at the in vehicle computing system and or servers . Upon detection of the event an action may be triggered. In some embodiments the action may include an instruction for the server s and or in vehicle computing system to request more data e.g. driver vehicle status information and or extended contextual information . The action may additionally or alternatively include operations to be performed by the in vehicle computing system . For example the in vehicle computing system may receive an instruction from the server s identifying the action to be taken. As illustrated the action may include a command e.g. a command to control functionality of a vehicle system an audio and or video alert e.g. a message or notification and or a communication e.g. an instruction to send a message and or data to another system .

The action may be provided to one or more of a speaker system e.g. when the action includes an audible alert a display device e.g. when the action includes a visual alert a vehicle controller e.g. when the action includes an instruction to alter operation of a vehicle system and a communications interface e.g. when the action includes an instruction to acquire further information from an external device establish a phone call with an external device and or otherwise establish communications with another device system . For example the vehicle controller may be a controller communicatively connected to a CAN bus of the vehicle e.g. vehicle control system of and the command may instruct the vehicle controller to alter operation of a vehicle system e.g. adjust engine operating conditions adjust a climate control system etc. . It is to be understood that the action may include any suitable command and or combination of commands and any number combination of output devices may receive instructions from the in vehicle computing system to perform the action.

At the method includes determining a driver state. As indicated at the driver state may be indicated by information from the navigation system. For example information regarding a complexity of an upcoming maneuver e.g. a difficult intersection with multiple lanes and or unusual traffic patterns an amount of traffic in the vicinity of the driver a distance time since the driver last stopped turned off the vehicle and or other indicators of the driver state may be determined based on information tracked provided by the navigation system. As indicated at the driver state may be determined based on information from other devices systems and or sensors aside from the navigation system. For example driver state may be gleaned from phone calls received by the driver information from vehicle sensors e.g. detection of unusual operating states frequent gear acceleration changes cruise control actuation defrost actuation and or humidity levels in the vehicle ambient noise recognized speech image data from one or more cameras imaging the vehicle cabin environment etc. and or any other suitable indicator of the mental or physical state of the driver.

The method includes determining if a cognitive load of the driver e.g. based on the driver state determined at is greater than a cognitive load threshold as indicated at . The cognitive load threshold may be predetermined and or customized for the particular driver based on historical data. For example the cognitive load and associated threshold may be defined as a number of distractions for a driver e.g. assistance from a navigational system phone calls audio output detected ambient noise indicating a conversation with a passenger inclement weather etc. a total intensity of distractions e.g. an intensity level of each distraction may be determined and aggregated to define the total intensity and or any other suitable attribute for defining cognitive load and an associated cognitive load threshold. The evaluation of the cognitive load of the driver may be performed by the in vehicle computing system the mash up server and or any combination of computing systems. For example since navigation data may include real time information the in vehicle computing system may determine the cognitive load of the driver based on information generated by the navigational system within the in vehicle computing system. The in vehicle computing system may store and or generate data such as the cognitive load threshold or receive the cognitive load threshold from the mash up server e.g. in response to sending a request for the threshold data . Accordingly the in vehicle computing system may compare the determined cognitive load of the driver to the generated or received cognitive load threshold at .

If the cognitive load is greater than the threshold e.g. YES at the method proceeds to to monitor for driver distractions as illustrated in . Monitoring for driver distractions may include monitoring incoming communications as indicated at . For example receiving a phone call text message or other communication may distract the driver from performing driving related tasks which may be dangerous when the cognitive load of the driver is already higher than a threshold.

Monitoring for driver distractions may also include monitoring vehicle alerts information that is requesting to be output via vehicle speakers display and or other output device as indicated at . For example the vehicle may be configured to output an audible or visible alert responsive to certain vehicle conditions e.g. low fuel warning seat belt warning etc. driving conditions e.g. weather information diagnostic information e.g. engine or other vehicle system malfunction warnings scheduled tasks e.g. scheduled oil change recommendation etc. The alerts and or information may be sent to the in vehicle computing system e.g. via the CAN bus a communication link to a mobile device or other external device etc. and or generated by the in vehicle computing system. Accordingly the in vehicle computing system may monitor communication links and or outputs to the alert information delivery devices e.g. speaker system display etc. in order to determine that an alert or other information is to be presented to the driver.

The method includes preventing an increase in cognitive load as indicated at . As indicated at the cognitive load may be maintained by selectively rejecting and or suppressing driver distractions such as incoming communications and alerts based on a rule set stored at the in vehicle computing system and or other server e.g. the mash up server of . For example incoming communications may be ranked based on the caller identity the type of communication etc. and rejected if the ranking is below an acceptance threshold. In some embodiments the rule set may include a list of callers that are always accepted which may be defined by a user and or based upon a contacts list of a user. In additional or alternative embodiments the rule set may identify different lists of callers for different cognitive load levels. For example the rule set may define that a first subset of callers is accepted if the cognitive load is below a first relatively lower threshold a second subset of callers is accepted if the cognitive load is below a second relatively higher threshold and all other callers are always rejected when the cognitive load is higher than a standard threshold e.g. the threshold utilized in the determination at in . In some embodiments all callers and or all types of communication may be rejected at . It is to be understood that the rule sets described above are exemplary and any suitable association between communication identifiers and selective acceptance rejection of the communication may be utilized.

Similar rule sets to those described above with respect to incoming communications may be associated with requests to present information and or alerts to the driver. For example alerts may be ranked based upon urgency e.g. alerts to imminent vehicle failure may be ranked higher indicating increased urgency relative to a scheduled alert that can be safely ignored for a period of time type of alert e.g. less intrusive alerts may be ranked higher relative to more intrusive alerts and or context of alert e.g. audible alerts may be ranked differently than visual alerts based upon the nature of the cognitive load . As described above rankings may be associated with different cognitive load thresholds controlling the selective rejection presentation of the alert. In some embodiments all alerts may be rejected and or suppressed at .

The rule set governing selective suppression rejection may also change over time based on observed behaviors such as a driver immediately calling certain callers back after a call is automatically rejected resulting in an automatic or requested addition of the caller to the acceptance list or returning calls even while experiencing higher cognitive loads without affecting detected driving performance resulting in raising the cognitive load threshold . The rule set may also define conditions and or contexts under which communications and or alerts are suppressed e.g. withheld and presented at a later time and conditions contexts under which communications alerts are rejected e.g. discarded and not presented unless requested again . In some embodiments communications and or alerts may be rejected suppressed only after confirmation of the rejection suppression is approved by the driver. While the confirmation may ensure that communications alerts are not discarded or delayed without driver knowledge the confirmation may only assist in maintaining a cognitive load when the confirmation is less of a cognitive load than the alert communication itself.

As indicated at the in vehicle computing system may assist in actively decreasing the cognitive load of the driver in accordance with a rule set. The cognitive load may be decreased by placing the active phone call on hold as indicated at reducing a speaker volume as indicated at and or by outputting audio alerts to assist the driver in performing a task and or observing the environment as indicated at . For example one or more microphones and or cameras of the vehicle may be utilized to interpret environmental information and present recommendations to the driver in order to decrease the reliance upon the driver to perform such interpretations. An example of this type of assistance is described in more detail below with respect to . It is to be understood that any suitable cognitive load reduction may be performed at .

The rule set governing the actions performed to reduce cognitive load may be based on the sources of cognitive load on the driver. For example if the majority of the cognitive load stems from multiple visual inputs to the driver e.g. a difficult driving maneuver heavy vehicular pedestrian traffic multiple displayed alerts etc. the in vehicle system may eliminate permanently or temporarily one or more visual inputs while keeping all or most audible inputs to the driver in tact. As described above with respect to select rejection suppression of items actions taken to decrease cognitive load may be selected based on a ranking of elements that are contributing to the cognitive load of the driver. For example if the speakers are only presenting music from a radio station the output of the speakers may be ranked at a lower level of importance than an audible or visual navigational instruction. Accordingly in such an example the speaker output may be reduced e.g. volume lowered or ceased prior to removing the visual navigational instruction. In some embodiments the cognitive load may be decreased until it reaches or drops below a cognitive load threshold.

One or more actions to decrease the cognitive load may be performed simultaneously and or sequentially e.g. cognitive load may be reevaluated after each sequential action and no further actions are performed after a particular action causes the cognitive load to reach or drop below the threshold . In some embodiments some or all actions to decrease cognitive load may only be performed responsive to user approval of the particular action. In additional or alternative embodiments the user may provide a general approval to perform any or all actions to decrease cognitive load without being informed of the actual action s to be performed.

After decreasing the cognitive load at the method proceeds to of discussed in more detail below. Returning to if the cognitive load is determined to be less than a cognitive load threshold e.g. NO at the method continues to to determine whether the driver is fatigued e.g. based on the driver state determined at . For example the driver may be determined to be fatigued based on erratic driving behavior e.g. detecting frequent acceleration changes via a throttle sensor not tied to traffic navigational issues detecting that the driver drifts outside of the designated lane via a vehicle mounted camera and or that the driver traverses rumble strips or other safety elements on the road via the camera and or an audio sensor etc. an amount of time or distance traversed since the last vehicle stop shut down detected speech patterns of the driver time of day and or other information received from one or more data sources. In some embodiments multiple pieces of information from one or more data sources may be utilized together to ascertain the fatigue state of the driver. For example data from the camera indicating multiple instances of the driver drifting outside of the designated lane e.g. without subsequently performing a lane change data from the throttle sensor indicating multiple acceleration change requests and data from the navigational system camera indicating traffic and driving conditions that do not necessitate frequent acceleration changes may be received at the in vehicle computing system and or a mash up server to be analyzed in context with one another. Taken alone each set of data may not result in a determination of driver fatigue while taken together the data may result in a determination of driver fatigue.

If the driver is not determined to be fatigued e.g. NO at the method proceeds to to continue monitoring the driver state and returns to to compare the cognitive load to the cognitive load threshold. If the driver is determined to be fatigued e.g. YES at the method proceeds to to engage the driver in conversation as illustrated in . Continuing with engaging the driver in conversation may include informing the driver of the detected fatigue as indicated at in order to alert the driver of a potentially dangerous condition. Engaging the driver in conversation may additionally or alternatively include suggesting a driving break as indicated at . The in vehicle computing system may also identify nearby locations in order to assist the driver in selecting and locating a suitable place for rest as indicated at . The locations may be identified based upon data from multiple sources such as a navigation system an internet search tool user reviews on one or more social networks etc.

The presentation of the nearby locations to the driver may also be based upon data from multiple sources. For example the in vehicle computing device and or mash up server may receive information from the sources described above and rank the locations based on the proximity to the vehicle e.g. closer locations may be ranked higher than those further away reviews visitations by the driver and or friends of the driver e.g. locations with good reviews or frequent visitation by the driver and or friends of the driver on one or more social networking sites may be ranked higher than those that have no reviews which are ranked higher than those with bad reviews difficulty in reaching the location and or other identifying information. Locations with relatively higher rankings may be displayed or otherwise presented more prominently e.g. first with a larger differently colored styled font with a special icon etc. than those with relatively lower rankings and or locations with relatively lower rankings may not be displayed or otherwise presented. Information related to the ranking may be displayed or otherwise presented to the driver e.g. identifying a friend that recommended the location identifying a distance to the location etc. in order to assist the driver in selecting a location.

The method may include creating a fatigue reduction environment as indicated at . For example creating a fatigue reduction environment may include adjusting one or more features of the environment to keep the driver alert or otherwise reduce fatigue inducing contributors to the environment. Creating a fatigue reduction environment may include adjusting climate control e.g. turning on air conditioning to reduce the temperature of the cabin as indicated at opening window s of the vehicle e.g. to reduce the temperature of the cabin introduce fresh air and increase noise in the cabin as indicated at and or adjusting chair position and or massage settings e.g. to increase decrease comfort place the driver in a more attentive posture etc. as indicated at . Creating a fatigue reduction environment may additionally or alternatively include adjusting speaker volume and or content that is output via the speakers in order to promote wakefulness as indicated at . For example the radio station and or audio track played via the speaker may be changed to an upbeat genre of music and or the speaker volume may be increased in order to prevent the driver from falling asleep.

The method may include transmitting a message s to contacts associated with the driver and or one or more passengers as indicated at . If the driver is traveling in a group with other drivers in other vehicles the transmitted message s may inform the other drivers of the intent to break as indicated at . For example upon selecting a location the in vehicle computing system may automatically transmit a message to the other drivers informing the drivers of the selected break location e.g. including directions and estimated time of arrival without the driver requesting such a message. In other embodiments the in vehicle computing system may prompt the driver e.g. request contacts to which the message will be sent request content for the message etc. and or request permission from the driver before sending the message. Before selecting a break location the driver may transmit one or more messages to one or more relevant contacts e.g. selected contacts members of a traveling group etc. to request assistance in selecting a location. The message s may include all possible locations and related information e.g. proximity reviews etc. or may include a subset of the possible locations e.g. selected by the driver or selected automatically based upon ranking .

As indicated at the transmitted message s may include a request for a phone conversation to decrease fatigue and or select a break location. For example the driver may be able to stay awake for longer if engaged in a conversation with a friend or family member. As described above the content of the request may be automatically generated and sent by the in vehicle computing system or the driver may have input regarding the content and or approval to send the message. The request may also include information about the possible break locations so that the contact may assist the driver in selecting a break location. The method may then proceed to of .

Returning to after taking the relevant steps to maintain and or decrease cognitive load and or address driver fatigue the method may include identifying any scheduled events scheduled within a threshold period of time from the current time. The event threshold period of time may vary based upon user selection and or distance to a target destination of a current navigation session. For example if a driver is 15 miles away from the destination the event threshold may be lower than instances in which the driver is 40 miles away from the destination. The scheduled events may be determined based upon information received from one or more calendars associated with one or more user accounts e.g. personal email work email social networking accounts etc. . The scheduled events may also be determined based upon a proximity to the location of the event. For example if an event is scheduled to take place in 15 minutes the driver is 50 miles away from the event location and the destination of the navigation system used by the driver is 30 miles away from the current driver location and 40 miles away from the event location it is unlikely that the driver intends to attend the event. In order to increase accuracy the in vehicle computing system may identify all or a subset e.g. most likely to be attended of the scheduled events based on the scheduled time of the events and request the driver to select and or confirm events the driver intends on attending.

As indicated at one or more messages may be sent to social networking profiles and or contacts of the driver in order to indicate the status of the driver. The message s may inform an event attendee of a break location and or time as indicated at . For example if the in vehicle computing system and or mash up server receives information related to a scheduled event e.g. a meeting dinner party social outing etc. to which the navigation system is directing the driver and a break may delay the arrival of the driver to the event the in vehicle system and or mash up server may request information from one or more social media networks to determine attendees and or organizers for the event in order to inform the attendees and or organizers that the driver intends to take a break. As described above the message s may be sent automatically and or with driver input. An additional message s may be sent automatically and or with driver input once the driver has left the break location. For example the in vehicle computing system and or mash up server may receive information from the navigational system an engine sensor and or another sensor indicating that the vehicle is powered on and or is en route to the event location. In response the in vehicle computing system may send a message to the event attendees organizers e.g. to the same contacts as the previous message informing the contacts that the driver has resumed travel and or of an estimated time of arrival. In additional or alternative embodiments the message s may update social networking profile s of the driver in order to inform the friends of the driver that the driver is experiencing high cognitive load and cannot be contacted at that time and or that the driver is fatigued and would benefit from a lively phone call assistance in choosing a break location etc. As described above the message s may not be transmitted unless the driver provides permission and or content for the message s in some embodiments. Although example messages are described above it is to be understood that any suitable message may be sent to any number or subset of contacts posted to user profiles pages for social networking sites etc.

Upon determining that the cognitive load is above a threshold the in vehicle computing system may perform one or more actions to ensure that cognitive load does not increase e.g. to at least maintain a cognitive load . As shown on the example display of the in vehicle computing system a notification is presented informing the driver that an incoming phone call was automatically declined. For example the phone call may have arrived after a time at which the cognitive load of the driver was determined to be above a threshold. As the phone call may increase the cognitive load on the driver even further the in vehicle computing system may automatically decline the phone call e.g. direct the caller to the voicemail of the driver without allowing the phone to ring . In some embodiments the notification of the declined phone call may not appear while the cognitive load is above a threshold in order to remove the distraction of the notification. For example any notifications of declined communications suppressed alerts etc. may be stored and presented sequentially simultaneously as a navigable list and or in any other suitable format upon determination that the cognitive load has dropped below the threshold. In additional or alternative embodiments each stored notifications may be displayed when the cognitive load is low enough to accommodate the additional cognitive load associated with the notification without surpassing the threshold. In this way if the cognitive load of the driver is below a threshold and the presentation of the notification would cause the cognitive load of the driver to exceed the threshold the notification may not be presented.

The in vehicle computing system may additionally or alternatively perform one or more actions to reduce a cognitive load on the driver. For example an audible alert may be presented via one or more speakers of the vehicle in order to alert the driver to the presence of the pedestrian and or instruct the driver on ways to avoid the pedestrian. For example image data from a camera of the vehicle e.g. the camera s in sensor subsystem of may be analyzed by the in vehicle computing system and or a server e.g. mash up server of and the presence direction of travel of the pedestrian may be determined based on the image data. Responsive to the detection of the pedestrian the audible alert may be generated. The audible alert may include any suitable alert such as a particular pattern of noises e.g. beeps tones etc. configured to capture or direct the attention of the driver to the road and or a spoken message e.g. in a language selected based on user preferences associated with the in vehicle computing system and or other user account informing the driver that a pedestrian has been detected and or instructing the driver to complete vehicular maneuvers to avoid the pedestrian e.g. based on the determined direction of travel of the pedestrian the audible alert may direct the driver to brake and or steer in an opposite direction to the direction of travel of the pedestrian .

The audible alert may decrease the cognitive load on the driver by assisting with observational duties and determining responses to such observations. The audible alert may also increase safety of the driver and pedestrian by providing an early warning system when the driver may temporarily divert attention away from particular areas around the vehicle e.g. the driver may be looking down at the display more frequently during a complex maneuver or out a side window when turning .

The mash up server may include a rules engine for invoking rules based on the occurrence of one or more events. The rules define action s to be taken for an event and results to be presented to a driver of a vehicle e.g. a user of the in vehicle computing system . Actions may include gathering of data from multiple third party contents e.g. via a content aggregator and other sources of information e.g. vehicle sensors driver behavior etc. and mixing this data intelligently based on the vehicle and or driver context. Rules may be created by a rule set provider via a rule creator mash up tool e.g. including a graphical user interface for building relationships between contextual data events and actions .

Rule set providers may optionally expose commonly used rules e.g. guidance when fuel in the vehicle is low as service APIs that are accessible by other applications and or devices. The mash up server may include a service API manager to manage the interfacing with devices applications calling such commonly used rules and associated service APIs e.g. the in vehicle computing system or other application in the mash up server and provide the results of the rules.

The mash up server may include a notification manager to manage device e.g. in vehicle computing system smart phone etc. identifiers for sending push notifications or other alerts. The notification manager may interact with the rules engine to trigger notifications based on pre configured rules. For example in response to a detection that a friend of the driver is within a threshold distance of the vehicle a rule may define a notification to be sent to the driver. Accordingly the notification manager may identify the device to which the notification is to be sent e.g. locate a device identifier for an in vehicle computing system and control the transmission of the notification to that device.

One or more elements of the mash up server may be periodically updated to expand functionality address recurring issues e.g. correct malfunctions etc. A client API library update manager may be responsible for informing a telematics server or other device application e.g. telematics server content aggregator about the availability of a new client API library for a specific vehicle make model year geography etc. The telematics server or other device application may notify all vehicles e.g. via the in vehicle computing system associated with the update that the update is available. Upon receiving the notification the in vehicle computing system of each vehicle may download the update using the client API download service via the telematics server. Although the client associated with the API library is described above as corresponding to the in vehicle computing system it is to be understood that the API library and associated updates may correspond to any suitable client such as a mobile computing device e.g. a smart phone associated with the driver or a passenger of the vehicle .

One or more user settings e.g. associated with a driver or other user of the vehicle vehicle settings etc. may be stored and or accessed by a settings manager . The settings may be stored in a centralized database included in or otherwise in communication with the settings manager so that all subsystems of the mash up server as well as other devices in communication with the mash up server may access the settings. For example user settings may include user personalized data settings personal information etc. stored as an ID value pair. The user settings may be input by the user e.g. via a graphical user interface and or voice command interface of the in vehicle computing system or automatically imported from another user account e.g. a social networking account for the driver .

The mash up server may include one or more subsystems such as the data integration subsystem the data persistence subsystem and the analytics engine subsystem . The data integration subsystem may be responsible for receiving and collating gathering data from different systems e.g. internal and or external to the mash up server and transforming the data to a format that is compatible with applications used by the mash up server. For example for unstructured data e.g. data from social media services click stream data and or other data that is received without structure defining the context or relationships between the data the data integration subsystem may search for relationships between the data elements and transform the data to a structured semi structured format e.g. a format associated with structured data for further processing. The data integration subsystem may include and or be connected to a communications interface of the mash up server in order to communicate with the different systems. The data persistence subsystem may be responsible for storage retrieval and management of data required by one or more applications running on the mash up server .

The analytics engine subsystem may include standard machine learning libraries which may be a combination of open source and proprietary customized libraries that implement standard machine learning algorithms. For example the machine learning libraries may support algorithms such as k means clustering mean shift clustering singular value decomposition user and item based recommendation engines etc. The analytics engine subsystem may include application specific machine learning models that include a set of library functions that model data such as the behavior of a driver passenger vehicle based on data received over a period of time. The application specific machine learning models support rules that incorporate driver behavior preferences moods etc.

The analytics engine subsystem may include a natural language text processor that includes a set of library functions for analyzing text data of one or more languages. For example the natural language text processor may include functions for sentence breaking parse tree generation part of speech tagging topic segmentation and or other speech recognition techniques. The natural language text processor assists with building models for sentiment analysis and other language based rules. The analytics engine subsystem may include a 3party machine learning ML model service interface to provide an abstract interface to 3party services that provide specialized models for a given machine learning problem. The 3party ML model service interface enables APIs for such 3party models and services to be accessed and utilized by the mash up server in order to increase the amount and types of processing provided by the mash up server . The results of the analysis performed by the analytics engine subsystem may be stored at the data persistence subsystem and accessed by the rules engine the service API manager the notification manager and or any other subsystem of the mash up server or external server e.g. via a communications interface of the mash up server .

By leveraging real time contextual data during in vehicle computing system operation an in vehicle computing system in communication with a mash up server may provide a user experience that adapts to dynamic behavior environmental and operational changes while adhering to predefined rules. Adjusting in vehicle computing system behavior responsive to a context of the vehicle driver that is derived from a plurality of information sources enables the in vehicle computing system to provide more autonomous and accurate operation than in vehicle computing systems that rely primarily on user input and a more limited amount of data gathering.

The description of embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Suitable modifications and variations to the embodiments may be performed in light of the above description or may be acquired from practicing the methods. For example unless otherwise noted one or more of the described methods may be performed by a suitable device and or combination of devices such as the in vehicle computing system and or mash up server described with reference to . The described methods and associated actions may also be performed in various orders in addition to the order described in this application in parallel and or simultaneously. The described systems are exemplary in nature and may include additional elements and or omit elements. The subject matter of the present disclosure includes all novel and non obvious combinations and sub combinations of the various systems and configurations and other features functions and or properties disclosed.

As used in this application an element or step recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural of said elements or steps unless such exclusion is stated. Furthermore references to one embodiment or one example of the present disclosure are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. The terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements or a particular positional order on their objects. The following claims particularly point out subject matter from the above disclosure that is regarded as novel and non obvious.

