---

title: Systems and methods for fabricating products on demand
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for fabricating products on demand. In some embodiments, a manufacturable model, which may include information about a three-dimensional representation of a product to be fabricated, is received by a user of an electronic system and may be validated by the electronic system. A prototype of the product can be generated based at least in part on the manufacturable model, and the manufacturable model and/or the product can be made available for selection by other users of the system. The product may be fabricated based at least in part on the manufacturable model using, for example, a three-dimensional printer, and may be delivered to users of the electronic system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09159106&OS=09159106&RS=09159106
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09159106
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 890 334 filed Sep. 24 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Digital manufacturing rapid prototyping desktop manufacturing and or personal fabrication systems generally three dimensional 3D printers include forms of additive manufacturing technology where a three dimensional object is fabricated by successive layers of material. Analogously to the way that conventional two dimensional desktop printers provide computer users with a paper output of their documents 3D printers can provide 3D computer aided design CAD users a physical prototype of real world objects. 3D printers can include technologies using inkjet printing to deposit layers of plaster or resins light projection systems e.g. stereolithography to expose and harden liquid polymers fused deposition modeling to deposit layers of polymer laser sintering to fuse small particles and so forth.

3D printers may be faster more affordable and easier to use than other commercial additive manufacturing technologies. Some types of 3D printers offer product developers the ability to print parts or assemblies made of several materials with different mechanical and physical properties in a single build process. 3D printing technologies can yield models that closely emulate the look feel and functionality of product prototypes. Recently some 3D printers have become economically accessible to smaller businesses and personal users thereby allowing prototyping and product fabrication to be performed by such businesses and users. 3D printing technology can be used in for example consumer products industrial design engineering automotive and medical industries.

The above described drawings and the following detailed description are provided to illustrate example embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

3D printers are typically not readily available to every person who conceives of a product to fabricate. In some cases the conceiver of the product may only want to fabricate a single item. However the item or a 3D manufacturing model from which the product can be fabricated may be of interest to others. Accordingly certain aspects of the present disclosure relate to providing an electronic system that provides a catalog of items available for selection by users of the system and methods of fabricating the selected items using 3D printing technology. In some examples the 3D printing technology may be local to the electronic system. In some other examples the 3D printing technology may be remote to the electronic system. In some embodiments the items selected by the users may be products to fabricate. In some embodiments the items selected may be one or more components of a final product or kits of components of products for assembly by a user. Some or all of the components may be pre assembled for the user. Assembly instructions or instructions for use may be provided with the kit e.g. as a downloadable electronic document . The electronic system may also be used to help users enter and edit manufacturing models used by a 3D printing system to produce a component kit or product. In some examples described herein it is to be understood that at the request of a particular user the electronic system fabricates and delivers an item to the particular user.

The products can be fabricated based at least in part on a manufacturable model e.g. a 3D CAD model that includes information that can be used to control a machine e.g. a 3D printer that fabricates the product. For example the manufacturable model can be used with a computer numerically controlled CNC machine to fabricate the product. Products may include any tangible output of the on demand product fabrication system and may include items such as stand alone products product components kits of components to assemble into stand alone products etc. In some embodiments a user may select the manufacturable model from the on demand fabrication system in addition to or instead of the fabricated product . For example the user may receive the fabricated product from a product delivery service and or the manufacturable model e.g. via electronic download over the network .

The on demand product fabrication system may include various components such as a user interaction framework and a content aggregation module . The content aggregation module may communicate or be coupled to one or more databases such as e.g. a models database a catalog content database or a customer database . These databases and may provide models and or a set of existing content as well as indications of future content from which the user may select to fabricate the on demand product . For example a models database may include information about manufacturable models of products while a catalog content database may include information about products that may be fabricated from the models stored in the database . In addition to or instead of storing digital content the databases and may also store indications of content stored external to the facility. For example one or more of the databases and may include references or pointers to items stored in an external data source. In some embodiments a separate data storage facility not shown may be used for storing such references pointers or databases. The databases need not be separate databases but may be included in one or more combined databases. While specific examples of content are described herein the on demand product fabrication system may provide or access virtually any type of manufacturable model or previously produced product. In addition to drawing from more traditional types of content other less conventional sources may be used to generate products on demand. For example the on demand product fabrication system may draw on product information from product manufacturer or retailer databases to generate customized products that are tailored to a user. In another example the on demand product fabrication system may access various search engines to generate products that may also use the on demand product to be fabricated.

The content aggregation module of the on demand product fabrication system which will be described below in more detail may be connected to or in communication with a customer database that stores customer information such as customer shipping information associated with customers who have selected one or more items available via the user interaction framework . The customer data stored in customer database may include customer shipping information. In some embodiments customer database may also include customer account and or behavioral data. Customer account data may include for example usernames passwords payment information item ratings and wish lists. Behavioral data may be data reflective of a customer s browsing activity. For example the behavioral data may include item selection data for users of the user interaction framework . The item selection data may include purchase histories search histories and item viewing histories. Purchase histories can include purchases or rentals of items for physical delivery or electronic download. The item selection data may also include likes and preferences of the customer for items categories of items product designers model designers authors artists directors genres etc.

In some embodiments the customer database may include user history information that the on demand product fabrication system may use to generate recommendations for a user. The customer database may also store preferences that allow the content aggregation module to select catalog content to present to that user. In this way the on demand product fabrication system may alert the user to the possibility of incorporating previously designed products as a sub component of a different product previously viewed or selected by the user.

In various embodiments the customer database may be local to the on demand product fabrication system may be local to the content aggregation module maybe be remote from both the on demand product fabrication system and content aggregation module and or may be a network based service itself. In the embodiment shown in users of the system may utilize the one or more computing devices and to communicate with the user interaction framework via a communication network such as the Internet or other communications link. The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. The network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network etc. or combination thereof. Various protocols Application Programming Interfaces APIs and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks may be used.

Upon establishing a connection with the on demand product fabrication system the user may access tools associated with the user interaction framework to input a manufacturable model of a product to be fabricated on demand and the model may be sent via the network and the user interaction framework to the model database for storage. The user may use additional tools associated with the user interaction framework to finalize the model. Examples of various tools provided by the user interaction framework are described in more detail with respect to below. The tools provided by the user interaction framework may be either local or remote.

In another embodiment the user may access the catalog content database to select a product fabricated on demand for another user and request to have that product components of that product or a kit of sub parts of that product fabricated. In cases where the on demand product fabrication system is fabricating on demand products based on a pre existing model in the models database the user interaction framework may retrieve such information from the models database without the need for further user interaction.

Other components associated with the on demand product fabrication system may include a product delivery system and a product fabrication system which may be in house e.g. provided by the system or outsourced e.g. provided by a third party . After selecting a model and or a product the user via the user interaction framework may receive a fabricated on demand product . In some embodiments the product fabrication system may be local to the on demand product fabrication system and in other embodiments the product fabrication system may be remote to the on demand product fabrication system . The product fabrication systems may include one or more three dimensional 3D printing devices which may vary in type function location etc. Some 3D printing devices may include 3D milling machines computed numerically controlled CNC machines laser cutter machines and the like. The 3D printing devices may utilize technologies such as e.g. inkjet printers to deposit layers of plaster or resins light projection systems e.g. stereolithography to expose and harden liquid polymers fused deposition modeling systems to deposit layers of polymer laser sintering systems to fuse small particles and so forth.

As one illustrative example the on demand product fabrication system may send a fabrication request for a single product to a local product fabrication system and may send a high volume product fabrication request to a third party product fabrication system capable of handling large jobs. After production the product delivery system may deliver the fabricated on demand products to the user via a variety of delivery source e.g. airmail ground shipping etc. . In some embodiments the on demand product fabrication system may provide the user with a 3D printable electronic copy of the manufacturable model via for example electronic download email web page telecommunications transmission etc. to enabling fabrication of the product under the user s control. In certain implementations the fabrication request is communicated to a product fabrication system that is located geographically close to the user. In some such implementations the user may go directly to the product fabrication system to pick up the fabricated product.

The memory contains computer program instructions that the processing unit executes in order to implement one or more embodiments. The memory generally includes RAM ROM and or other persistent memory. The memory may store an operating system that provides computer program instructions for use by the processing unit in the general administration and operation of the on demand product fabrication system . The memory may further include computer program instructions and other information for implementing aspects of the present disclosure. For example in one embodiment the memory includes a user interface module that generates user interfaces and or instructions therefor for display upon a computing device e.g. via a navigation interface such as a web browser installed on the computing device. The user interface module may in some embodiments implement the functionality of the user interaction framework . In addition memory may include or communicate with a customer database . Data stored in the customer database may include customer shipping information for example.

In addition to the user interface module the memory may include a customer connection module that may be executed by the processing unit . In one embodiment the customer connection module can implement the content aggregation module and may be in communication with one or more databases e.g. the database shown in .

In some embodiments the model input tools may be used to allow the system to receive a manufacturable model of a product to be fabricated on demand. The manufacturable model may include information about dimensions shapes tolerances materials fabrication processes and other data or requirements related to the product to be fabricated. For example the manufacturable model may comprise a 3D CAD model e.g. AutoCAD or Solidworks data files that provides a three dimensional representation of an object. The model completeness verification tools may be used to determine whether the model received from the user is a suitable manufacturable model that can be used by the fabrication systems to fabricate a tangible version of the product described by the model. The verification may include determining whether the received model is in the correct format includes the appropriate files e.g. drawing files part files assembly files etc. etc. The model completeness verification tools may also be used to request further information from the user. For example if the model input by the user is not a three dimensional representation of the product the user interaction framework may request further input by the user such as a photograph of the product to be fabricated.

Once the model has been verified to be complete as a manufacturable model the model validation tools may be used to for example validate or analyze for the manufacturable model or a product fabricated based on the model the representation of product dimensions or configuration representation of material tolerances sensitivity to different fabrication or performance scenarios compliance with industry regulatory quality or safety standards etc. For example the tools may include a set of consistency checking rules to facilitate validating the 3D configuration of the product from the model. The tools may also provide error messages to aid the designer to make corrections or alterations to the model. In some implementations the tools can be configured to test product designs for defects before prototypes are fabricated. The model validation tools may help the user improve or optimize the model. For example the model validation tools may be used to subject the model to similar conditions as in the real world including e.g. stresses impact heat airflow and the like. In some embodiments the model validation tools may receive user provided attributes relating to how the fabricated product might perform under various environmental conditions or scenarios. The user or system may make such a determination by using the model validation tools to subject the model of the product to a simulation of environmental conditions using the attributes provided. As one possible example the model validation tools may be used to determine whether the fabricated product might be top heavy and therefore likely to tip over under expected loads or stresses. The user or the system may then use the result of the model validation tools to make corrections or changes to the model if necessary or desired. Continuing with the above example the user or system may decide to change the weight distribution of materials represented in the model to decrease the likelihood that the product may tip over.

The model validation tools may also help the user determine whether moving parts clash or interfere with one another how much weight a product may carry how much a part may deform under specific stresses whether heat and air circulate through the product properly whether the product would survive a fall and the like. The model validation tools may include for example validation of design tolerances tolerance stackup validation assembly simulation fully integrated mechanism simulation simulation of welded structures product failure prediction prediction of buckling and collapse heating and cooling simulation simulation of drop test and impact nonlinear dynamics simulation of loading effects simulation of plastic parts fluid flow simulation and the like. In some implementations the functionality of the model completeness verification tools and the model validation tools are combined into a single model validation module.

The prototype creation tools may allow the user to receive a prototype of the product based on the model. The prototype creation tools may allow the user to request changes to the prototype. For example the user may wish to add colors change dimensions or use other types of materials. Model finalization tools may allow the user to create a final model of the product to be fabricated based on the output of the model validation tools and the prototype creation tools . The finalized models may then be made available in the models database and or the content catalog database by using the model database and catalog content creation tools . The model database and catalog content creation tools may be used to request permission from the user to include the model in the models database and or to represent the product its components or any kits useable to create the product in the catalog content database .

The user interaction framework may also be used to provide access to an existing model in the models database and or an existing product product component or product kit in the catalog content database. For example the user interaction framework may include a search and query function a recommendation function a browse function and other functions that allow the user to select existing models and or products from the databases. The user interaction framework may offer a variety of search strategies in addition to performing text searching e.g. search by title subject keyword etc. . Some examples of search strategies include allowing a user to select items from a catalog and then basing the search on metadata associated with the selected item allowing the user to highlight content while browsing a web site or viewing a work and then basing the search on metadata associated with the highlighted items. For example the framework may allow the user to select a see 10 more like this option when viewing or browsing content and then basing the search on corresponding metadata etc.

After receiving the product model input at block the on demand product fabrication system may determine at block whether the product model is complete. In some embodiments a product model may be considered incomplete if the model is not a manufacturable model as described above. Some models which may be considered manufacturable models include models created using 3D computer aided design CAD software such as for example SolidWorks VectorWorks AutoCAD and the like.

At block if the on demand product fabrication system determines that the product model is complete the method continues to block . If the on demand product fabrication system determines that the product model is incomplete the method continues to block where the on demand product fabrication system can request alternative input from the user. In some embodiments the alternative input may include a photograph of the product to be fabricated. For example the product may be photographed against a background grid that provides information on dimensions of the product. In some embodiments the alternative input from the user may include a physical e.g. clay prototype or electronic model of the product or the product itself. For example a 3D scanner may be used to provide a digital model of the product. Using optional input from the user the on demand product fabrication system may generate a product model at block . Once the product model is generated at block the on demand product fabrication system returns to block and determines whether the product model is complete. If the system determines that the product model is still incomplete blocks and are repeated until the model is determined to be complete at block .

In the embodiment illustrated in if the product model received from the user or the product model generated by the on demand product fabrication system at block is determined to be complete at block the method continues to block and performs a product simulation to validate the model. As explained above product simulation may be used to subject the model to similar conditions as in the real world including stresses impact heat airflow and the like. Once the product simulation validates the model a prototype of the product can be created at block . The prototype of the product may then be provided to the user for a determination of whether the prototype meets the user s needs at block . The prototype may be provided to the user via a variety of delivery means e.g. airmail ground shipping etc. . If the user is satisfied with the prototype then the method continues to block . If the user is not satisfied with the prototype blocks through may be iterated until the user is satisfied with the prototype. At block the model for the product is updated based on the results of the product simulation of the model and or the prototype iterations. When the user is satisfied with the prototype the manufacturable model can be finalized for production of products based on the finalized model. The finalized product is ready to be fabricated at block . In some embodiments the product may be fabricated geographically locally to the on demand product fabrication system and in other embodiments the product may be fabricated geographically remotely from the system . Once the on demand product fabrication system has fabricated a product on demand the method ends in block .

In some embodiments a USER S MODELS display area shows various models that the user has started but not yet completed. For example in the embodiment illustrated in the user has provided a manufacturable model for a screw for a pair of eyeglasses. Therefore the USER S MODELS display area includes User s model for eyeglass screw. In some embodiments a SEARCH MODELS DATABASE display area provides a mechanism through which the user may search for additional models in the models database. The SEARCH MODELS DATABASE display area may include a text field that allows the user to enter search terms e.g. eyeglass . In some embodiments from a SEARCH PRODUCTS DATABASE display area the user may select to view additional products. For example a user accessing the on demand fabrication system may search for eyeglass screws similar to those provided by the user s manufacturable model. Accordingly use of the system may advantageously facilitate obtaining components or parts of products that have been broken and need to be repaired.

The example page feature includes an image of the product and a brief description of the item e.g. name description price etc. . The page feature is an area of the page allowing a user customer to add one or more quantities of the item to an electronic shopping cart or to a wishlist for future purchase. The page feature may be presented prominently and in a standard position on the display page so that the customer can easily order the item. The page feature provides links to components of the product a product kit for sub components of the product and the model associated with the product. The page feature shows an additional item that is frequently purchased together with the product described in page feature . The page feature shows other items purchased by customers who also purchased the item described on the page . The page feature includes areas for a detailed description editorial reviews and customer reviews of the item. Additional or different page features can be used in other display pages.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the algorithms methods or processes described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out all together e.g. not all described acts or events are necessary for the practice of the algorithms methods or processes . All possible combinations and subcombinations are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. Moreover in certain embodiments acts or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed by a machine such as a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor a controller microcontroller or state machine combinations of the same or the like. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may be stored on any type of non transitory computer readable medium or computer storage device such as a hard drive solid state memory optical disc and or the like. A storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In some embodiments the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In some embodiments the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal. The systems and modules may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave or other analog or digital propagated signal on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms e.g. as part of a single or multiplexed analog signal or as multiple discrete digital packets or frames .

Conditional language used herein such as among others can might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or states. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or states are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without author input or prompting whether these features elements and or states are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As will be recognized certain embodiments of the inventions described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. No element or feature is necessary or indispensable to each embodiment. The scope of certain inventions disclosed herein is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

