---

title: Activating and using device with a grip switch
abstract: An activation signal is provided in response to a user gripping force incident to a grip switch. Electronic circuitry transitions from an inactive state to an active state in response to the activation signal. The activation signal may also include encoded information regarding user identity, gripping force magnitude, user input gesturing, and the like. The electronic circuitry may use the information encoded in the signal to select or perform particular functions or operations. Power consumption of a stylus, user device, or other apparatus is reduced, or various functions are improved, accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552049&OS=09552049&RS=09552049
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09552049
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130925
---
Various electronic devices are used in countless areas of endeavor. Many such devices are built as portable battery powered units. Users seek to reduce energy consumption extend battery life improve user convenience or enhance operation with respect to various devices.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Users employ a wide range of electronic devices for many purposes. In many instances such devices are designed with handheld portable form factors and operate by way of rechargeable or disposable batteries. Cellular telephones stylus for use with tablet computers media access or viewing devices and the like are just a few examples. In other instances a device or feature is part of a larger or more complex system such as an aircraft an industrial process and the like. Various aspects of these devices or apparatus are held or gripped in the hand of user during operation.

Power conservation is a concern with respect to battery powered devices so as to extend useable life before recharging or battery replacement. Thus it is desirable to prevent or reduce electrical power consumption when the particular device is not in use. In another situation an operator is required to remain at a duty station and maintain control of a vehicle supervise a manufacturing process or other scenario. An alarm is sounded or other actions are taken in the event that the operator is absent or becomes incapacitated and so on.

Grip switches are used to provide an electrical signal in response to a gripping force applied by a user. For instance such a gripping force may be applied by the palm of a user s hand while grasping the grip switch or an associated device bearing the grip switch by squeezing the grip switch between the thumb and forefinger of the user s hand or by way of another manual engagement of the user s hand with the grip switch. Such grip switches may be configured in various ways and may exhibit contact between respective electrodes or contacts varying resistance or voltage or another electrical characteristic that is indicative of a user grasping the grip switch.

One or more grip switches may be provided by and supported on a particular device. Alternatively an accessory may be configured for usage with a given user device wherein the accessory includes one or more grip switches. A device may transition between inactive and active modes perform predefined operations or trigger other functions in response to signaling from such a grip switch or switches.

In one example a stylus is configured for use with a tablet computer. A grip switch and associated circuitry provide an activation signal in response to a user gripping the stylus. A processor of the stylus transitions from an inactive low power state to an active higher power state in response to the activation signal. The stylus is used to communicate motion position or other information to the tablet computer in accordance with normal usage. Thereafter the user sets the stylus aside such that the grip switch is no longer activated. The processor or other resources of the stylus may then resume the low power inactive state in the interest of battery power conservation or other concerns.

In another instance a cellular telephone includes two grip switches disposed on opposite sides. Grasping of the cellular telephone in a user s hand causes the grip switches to provide respective activation signals. A controller processor or other resource of the cellular telephone assumes an active state in response to one or both activation signals presenting a predefined or user configurable user interface on a display. The cellular telephone is now ready for placing a call or some other use. Thus the cellular telephone has been activated or awakened simply by grasping it in the hand and without specific actuation of an on off switch swiping or other gesturing input to the display and so forth. User convenience and immediacy of operation are therefore improved.

In still another example an accessory for a media device includes a grip switch on a side surface. The accessory is formed using a resilient material and is configured to removably engage that is to be installed on the media device in a close fitting jacket like relationship. Electrical contacts borne on an inside surface of the accessory connect with corresponding contacts borne by the media device so that signals from the grip switch can be communicated thereto. The media device may assume an active state trigger various operations and so on in response to a user grasping or holding the media device as detected by the grip switch. Additionally the media device may assume an inactive power conserving state sometime after being set down by the user or in response to another detected or triggering event.

The foregoing examples are illustrative and non limiting in nature. Grip switches or related sensing devices exhibit respective electrical characteristics that change in response to a user applied gripping or holding force. Circuitry connected to a grip switch asserts an activation signal modulates a voltage digitally encodes a value within a range or provides other information indicative of a gripped condition of or user force input to the grip switch.

A device or apparatus may be triggered from a low power state to an activated state select or perform one or more predetermined operations and so forth in response to such an activation signal. The device or apparatus may also be returned to the inactive low power state in response to a change in or un assertion of the activation signal or in response to an idle state of predetermined duration such as detected by an accelerometer and timer or in accordance with other control strategies. Battery based energy resources may be conserved and user convenience and overall experience are improved accordingly. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A stylus includes a grip switch . The grip switch is configured to exhibit a change in an electrical characteristic in response to a gripping or holding force input from a user . The grip switch is further configured to exhibit this electrical characteristic change when the stylus is held in the hand of a user during normal use.

The stylus also includes a grip switch module that senses or detects the electrical characteristic of the grip switch and provides or encodes a corresponding signal output. The grip switch module may include electronic circuitry a dedicated purpose integrated circuit an accelerometer a timer an analog to digital converter ADC a processor or microcontroller executable program code stored on computer readable storage media CRSM or other constituency. The grip switch module may sense detect or measure the instantaneous state or value of the electrical characteristic of the grip switch using a biasing signal such as a direct current or voltage. The grip switch module may also filter or otherwise process such a biasing signal as well. Other sensing or detecting techniques may also be used.

A digital signal refers to an electrical signal that is modulated or varied so as to convey information by way of two or more discrete values. For example a digital signal may be characterized by two distinct voltage levels corresponding to one and zero respectively. In another example a digital signal may be characterized by a carrier wave that is modulated at a plurality of different frequencies wherein each frequency corresponds to a predefined data value. Other digital signaling formats or characteristics may also be used.

The grip switch module may also include debounce circuitry or similar functionality may perform various types of signal filtering in accordance with sensed changes in the electrical characteristic of the grip switch and so forth. In one instance the grip switch module is configured to provide or assert a signal output after the grip switch has been grasped for a predetermined period of time. In another instance the grip switch module provides or encodes an output signal in accordance with comparing the changing electrical characteristic of the grip switch with a predetermined threshold or value. Furthermore the grip switch module may provide or output an analog signal or a digital signal or may provide an output signal including digitally encoded information or data. The grip switch module may provide other signals or signal content as well.

The stylus also includes a processor . The processor may include a microprocessor a microcontroller or other device configured to perform or control various respective operations of the stylus in accordance with an executable program code. The processor is also configured to receive signaling from the grip switch module which may cause the processor to transition from an inactive low power mode to an active higher power mode perform one or more predetermined operations and so forth.

The stylus also includes one or more application modules . Each application module may include program code stored on non transitory CRSM electronic circuitry or other resources such that the stylus may perform various respective functions. In one instance the application modules include program code that is executable by the processor . Other configurations may also be used.

The stylus further includes a communications module . The communications module may include electronic circuitry or other resources and is configured to communicate information data signals and so forth to and from the stylus using wireless signaling . In one example one of the application modules is configured to operate in cooperation with the processor such that position movement velocity orientation or other information regarding the stylus is communicated by way of the wireless signaling . Other various operations may also be performed.

A tablet computer is also provided. The tablet computer includes a display configured to present text computer generated images digital photographs video segments indicia and other visual content to the user . The tablet computer also includes a controller configured to control or perform various operations in accordance with an executable program code. The controller may include one or more processors or microcontrollers electronic circuitry an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and so forth.

The tablet computer also includes a display driver . The display driver is configured to cause text images and so on to be presented on the display in accordance with control or data signaling received from the controller . The display driver may include electronic circuitry dedicated purposes devices or other resources.

The tablet computer also includes one or more application modules configured such that the various and respective operations and functions may be performed. Non limiting examples of the application modules include e book readers photographic viewing or editing applications a word processing application a web browser and so forth. The application modules may respectively include executable program code electronic circuitry sensors or input output devices and so on.

The tablet computer also includes a communication module configured to communicate information data and so forth between the tablet computer and the stylus by way of the wireless signaling . For example the communication module may comprise a transceiver transmitter and receiver compatible with one or more wireless protocols such as Wi Fi Bluetooth ZigBee and so forth. In other implementations the communication module may comprise a transmitter only. The communication module may be configured to communicate with other computing devices with various network or web based resources and so on.

In one illustrative and non limiting operation the user grasps the stylus in the hand such that respective electrodes within the grip switch make electrical contact. For example electrical contact occurs when the respective electrodes come into physical contact with at least a portion of one another such that an electrical connection or electrically conductive pathway between the two is established. The electrical connection allows for the transfer of electrical charge. In one implementation one or more of the respective electrodes may comprise an electrically conductive material which may be deformed or displaced to make electrical contact with another portion of electrically conductive material. The grip switch module senses the contacting electrodes and provides an activation signal to the processor . In some implementations the grip switch module may sense additional kinds of electrical coupling between the electrodes and including but not limited to inductive coupling capacitive coupling or magnetic coupling. For example a displacement one or both of the electrodes may alter the capacitive coupling between the two which may be detected by the grip switch module . The activation signal may be provided for instance to a general purpose input output GPIO of the processor . Other signal provision or reception techniques may also be used.

The processor responds to the activation signal from the grip switch module by transitioning from a power conserving inactive state to a higher power active state. The processor then signals other resources of the stylus to assume similar active states as well. For instance the processor may access an application module or signal the communications module to assume an active state from an inactive state. Other operations or resource activations may also be performed.

The processor may thereafter use an application module so as to generate positioning or motion data corresponding to the user moving the stylus about in contact with the display . The processor provides this data to the communication module which encodes and sends the data to the tablet computer using the wireless signaling . The tablet computer responds to the data communication by presenting lines arcs or other indication on the display in accordance with the motion of the stylus . For example the user may be highlighting a hiking route on an image of a map presented on the display .

Thereafter the user sets the stylus aside such that the grip switch is no longer being grasped. The electrodes within the grip switch break electrical contact with each other in response to the absence of the gripping force of the user . The grip switch module un asserts or otherwise changes the activation signal provided to the processor to indicate the un grasped or idle condition of the stylus .

The processor responds to the ceased or changed condition of the activation signal by shutting down the application module signaling the communications module to resume the inactive state or perform other operations in the interest of power conservation. The processor then resumes the inactive state until such time as the stylus is reactivated in response to being grasped by the user .

The stylus includes a single grip switch . That is the stylus may be configured to be activated to perform one or more predetermined operations and so on based on signaling derived from the grip switch . However it may be desirable to switch between different operating modes based upon the user grasping different portions of a stylus or other device.

Also depicted is a stylus . The stylus may be analogous to the stylus and may be similarly resourced including the processor one or more application modules the communications module and so forth. The stylus also includes a first grip switch A disposed proximate to a lower or writing end and a second grip switch B disposed proximate to an upper or erasing end of the stylus .

In one instance the user may grasp the stylus by way of the first grip switch A . Signaling derived from the first grip switch A may be used to activate the processor and other resources of the stylus . Additionally the stylus may communicate wireless signaling to the tablet computer so as to activate a line tracing application module . Line segments arcs and so on appear on the display in accordance with the user movement of the stylus . That is the user moves the stylus with the writing end in contact with the display during the line tracing or drawing operation.

In another instance the user wishes to erase some of the lines just drawn during the illustrative operation above. The user then turns the stylus over transitioning their grasp from the first grip switch A to the second grip switch B . Thus the first grip switch A changes its electrical state in accordance with the un gripped condition while the second grip switch B changes its electrical state in response to the gripped condition.

Signaling derived from the second grip switch B causes the stylus to communicate wireless signaling to the tablet computer so as to activate an erasing application module . Lines arcs or portions thereof are now deleted from the display in accordance with user movement of the stylus . Specifically the user moves the stylus with the erasing end in contact with the display during the line deletion operation.

Thus the stylus mimics the operation of a conventional lead pencil with the user grasping a grip switch A at a pointed end while drawing and grasping a grip switch B at a blunted end while erasing. Other operations may be activated or their characteristics selected or modulated in response to the user grasping a particular grip switch adjusting the intensity of their grip and so on. In another instance the user may step through or select from a plurality of different functions of the stylus or by applying a sequence of squeeze like force inputs. That is a grip based gesturing system may be defined and used by way of a grip switch . Other techniques or functional selections may also be used.

In a first illustration the grip switch of the stylus is depicted in a resting state. That is the user is not grasping the grip switch . Accordingly a first electrode and a second electrode of the grip switch are arranged in a non contacting condition in which space is maintained between the first electrode and the second electrode such that electrical contact is not maintained. The grip switch module is configured to electrically sense the non contacting condition of the electrodes by way of an electrical bias voltage. For example the electrical bias voltage may be applied to one of the electrodes or such that when electrical contact between the electrodes and occurs electrical current flows.

No electrical current passes through the electrodes and as a result of the non contacting condition. For example while in the non contacting condition a gap comprising a dielectric material such as ambient air between the electrodes and inhibits flow of electrical current. The grip switch module does not assert an activation signal in response to the sensed open condition of the electrodes and .

In a second illustration the user grasps the stylus such that a user applied force is incident upon the grip switch . The first electrode and the second electrode are now flexed into a closed condition such that the electrodes and are in physical and electrical contact with each other. The grip switch module senses the closed condition of the electrodes and and asserts the activation signal in response. For example the grip switch module may detect the presence of the electrical bias voltage across the electrodes and . When the applied force is removed such as when the user releases their grip the electrodes and to return to the open non contacting condition as depicted in the first illustration.

Thus switching back and forth between electrically contacting and non contacting states is readily achieved by a user applying and releasing the user applied force to the grip switch . The first and second electrodes and respectively are depicted as flexible metallic elements in the interest of clarity of concept. However numerous specific configurations may be used to detect the user gripping or squeezing of a corresponding grip switch .

In one instance the grip switch module asserts the activation signal continuously during a closed condition of the electrodes and wherein the activation signal is otherwise not asserted. Such a continuous during make activation signal may be used to convey operating power to the processor or to other electronic constituency for example. In another instance the grip switch module provides the activation signal as a brief pulse at the instant of closure of the electrodes and such that the activation signal is not continuously asserted thereafter.

In still another instance grip switch module encodes information within the activation signal coincident with making contact between the electrodes and and then encodes other information coincident with breaking contact between the electrodes and . Thus the activation signal may be provided as a continuous signal a discontinuous signal as an encoded information signal or in other suitable ways. Digital analog or other activation signal formats or protocols may be used.

In one example a grip switch includes a rigid electrode . The rigid electrode may be formed from aluminum copper or another conductive material. In another implementation the rigid electrode is formed by deposition of a layer of metal or other conductive material over a rigid substrate such as plastic or nylon. Other configurations may be used. As depicted the rigid electrode has a tubular or hollow cylindrical form factor. The rigid electrode is stiff and non flexible in character so as to retain its shape under gripping force applied by a user . Solid electrodes or electrodes having other cross sectional shapes of form factors may also be used.

The grip switch also includes a flexible electrode . The flexible electrode may be formed from thin aluminum copper or another conductive material. In another instance the flexible electrode is formed by deposition of a layer of metal or other conductive material over a flexible sheet material such as plastic or nylon. Other configurations may be used. The flexible electrode has a tubular or hollow cylindrical form factor and is disposed in a concentric relationship with the rigid electrode . This concentric relationship may or may not be coaxial in that the rigid electrode and the flexible electrode may or may not share a common axis. In cross section the rigid electrode the flexible electrode or both may be circular as illustrated in this figure or may be square elliptical irregular asymmetrical and so forth.

The flexible electrode is configured to make resilient electrically conductive contact with the rigid electrode under the influence of the user applied force that is a gripping or squeezing action. The flexible electrode is further configured to return to its resting state or base form out of electrical contact with the rigid electrode in the absence of the user applied force . The grip switch also includes a gripping surface disposed over the outside surface of the flexible electrode . The gripping surface may be formed from synthetic rubber or another high friction resilient material.

The grip switch further includes one or more spacer rings or other spacer structures. Each spacer ring or structure is formed from an electrically non conductive material such as plastic and is configured to maintain the flexible electrode in a centered spaced concentric relationship to the rigid electrode . The concentric relationship may be such that the flexible electrode is arranged such that the rigid electrode coaxial or centered within. In another implementation the rigid electrode may be off center relative to the flexible electrode . The respective spacer rings may be disposed at intervals along an axial or length wise aspect of the rigid electrode . In one instance a total of two spacer rings are disposed proximate to opposite ends of the grip switch such that electrical contact between the electrodes and is made near a mid point there between during user actuation. Other suitable configurations may be used.

The rigid electrode and the flexible electrode may be connected to the grip switch module by way of respective lead wires or flexible electrical conductors. The grip switch module may be configured to assert or not assert the activation signal in accordance with a contacting or non contacting state of the electrodes and . Thus the activation signal may communicate on off signaling based on the presence or absence of the user applied force .

In another example a grip switch is depicted in end section view and includes a rigid core . The rigid core may be formed from plastic nylon or another electrically non conductive material. In another implementation the rigid core is formed from metal or another electrically conductive material and maintains electrical connection with an electrically conductive foam or other material such as a conductive polymer. Other configurations and materials may also be used.

The grip switch also includes the electrically conductive foam introduced above. The electrically conductive foam is disposed about and supported by the rigid core . The electrically conductive foam is characterized by an electrical resistance or Ohmic value that varies in accordance with a squeezing force applied by the user . In one instance the electrical resistance of the electrically conductive foam decreases in response to an increase in the user applied force . Other materials such as conductive polymers piezoelectric materials and so forth may also be used. Additionally other electrical characteristics may also be used. The electrically conductive foam or other material may also resilient in nature and returns to a resting form or state in the absence of the user applied force .

The grip switch includes a flexible shell disposed about the electrically conductive foam . The flexible shell may be formed from synthetic rubber or the like so as to provide the non slip gripping surface . In another instance the flexible shell is formed from plastic or another compliant sheet material. In some cases where the flexible shell is formed from electrically non conductive material a metallic layer may be deposited or applied to an inside surface so as to maintain electrical connection with the electrically conductive foam . Other configurations may also be used.

The grip switch module may be electrically connected to the electrically conductive foam by way of the rigid core and the flexible shell or by way of other suitable conductive lead wires or the like. The grip switch module may also be configured to provide or assert an activation signal when the electrical resistance exhibited by the electrically conductive foam is lesser than a threshold value thus providing an on off type signal.

In another case the grip switch module may be configured to modulate a voltage of the activation signal in accordance with the instantaneous resistance of the electrically conductive foam . In still another case the grip switch module may be configured to digitally encode a value within the activation signal in accordance with the instantaneous resistance of the electrically conductive foam . These and other configurations may be used so as to communicate a magnitude of the user applied force communicate the identity of a particular user based on the user applied force and so forth. Other indications or information may be determined and communicated from the grip switch module to the processor based on the sensed resistance value of the electrically conductive foam .

In still another example a grip switch is depicted in end section view and includes a first electrode . The first electrode may be formed from metal or another electrically conductive material. The first electrode is characterized by a channel like or C shaped cross section. A second electrode is also included and is characterized by the same or a similar cross sectional shape as that of the first electrode . The second electrode is disposed in mirror image orientation to the first electrode .

The grip switch also includes a spacer foam . The spacer foam may be formed from electrically non conductive materials. The spacer foam is characterized by resilience and is disposed so as to bias the first electrode and the second electrode apart from each other. Respective air gaps are present between the electrodes and when the grip switch is in a resting non actuated state. The spacer foam is also configured to be squeezed or compressed under the influence of a user applied force such that the electrodes and make electrical contact with each other. The spacer foam is further configured to expand back to the resting condition when the user applied force is removed such that the electrodes and are biased out of electrical contact with each other.

The grip switch further includes a flexible shell disposed about the first electrode the second electrode and the spacer foam . The flexible shell may be formed from synthetic rubber or another suitable electrically non conductive material. The flexible shell may also be configured to provide a non slip gripping surface e.g. as well.

The grip switch module may be electrically connected to the first electrode and the second electrode respectively by way of lead wires or other conductive elements. The grip switch module may be configured to assert or not assert the activation signal in accordance with a contacting or non contacting state of the electrodes and . The activation signal may therefore communicate on off type signaling based on whether or not the user is grasping the grip switch .

A cellular phone is depicted including respective grip switches A and B disposed on opposite sides thereof. The cellular phone also includes the grip switch module or its analog configured to provide signaling in accordance with an actuated or gripped state of the grip switches A and B . In one instance the grip switch module asserts the activation signal based on whether or not the user is holding the cellular phone in hand thus actuating either or both of the grip switches A or B . In another instance the grip switch module modulates or encodes information within the activation signal based on a relative gripping force or squeeze type gesturing applied to the grip switches A B . Other information or formatting may be used with the activation signal .

In turn the cellular phone may be configured to respond to signaling from the grip switch module by transitioning from a low power inactive state to higher power active state. For instance the cellular phone may wake up and present a user interface to the user in response to the activation signal . The cellular phone may therefore be activated and ready for use without need to actuate additional devices apply input gesturing to a display and so on after taking the cellular phone in hand.

The respective grip switches A and B are built in features of the cellular phone as depicted and described above. Similar grip switch features may be incorporated into a wide range of other devices as well. Moreover one or more grip switches may be added to an existing cellular phone or other device by way of an appropriate accessory item.

A device accessory is also depicted specifically configured for removable engagement and use with an e book reader . However numerous other device accessories may be configured and equipped for use with other devices accordingly. The device accessory includes a resilient shell which may be formed from synthetic rubber or another pliable electrically non conductive material. The resilient shell has a form factor and resilient character so as to be closely fitted over a back and side surfaces of the e book reader in a jacket like manner. The device accessory is removable from the e book reader by virtue of the pliable nature of the resilient shell . Thus the user may install or remove the device accessory at will.

The device accessory also includes respective grip switches A and B . The grip switches A and B are disposed and supported on opposite side surfaces of the resilient shell . The grip switches A and B are also electrically connected to respective electrical contacts borne on an inside surface of the resilient shell . Corresponding electrical contacts of the e book reader are configured such that an associated grip switch module is in electrical communication with the grip switches A and B when the device accessory is engaged with i.e. installed on or fitted to the e book reader .

User applied force to either the grip switch A or B or both is sensed by the grip switch module of the e book reader . The grip switch module may provide an activation signal to a controller or other resource of the e book reader such that inactive to active state transitioning may be performed respective functions may be selected or initiated and so forth. It is noted that the resilient shell is configured to cover a back sides and end portions of the e book reader such that a portion or portions of the e book reader remain exposed for user access thereto. Thus a display one or more user input devices or other features of the e book reader are readily accessible to the user while the device accessory is removably engaged therewith.

For example an amusement park ride the hand grips of a walker or wheelchair or another device or situation may call for continuous two handed gripping by the user in the interest of personal safety or the safety of another. In another example one or more grip switches may be implemented as part of a shut off run enable or other safety feature of a lawn mower recreational watercraft snowmobile or other vehicle. Respective grip switches grip switch modules or other devices may be implemented in these or other scenarios.

The aircraft yoke is configured to receive input from the user during normal operation of an aircraft. Respective grip switches A and B are disposed on opposite handholds of the aircraft yoke . The grip switches A and B are each connected in electrical communication with a grip switch module . In one scenario the grip switch module is configured to provide or assert an activation signal in the event that neither the grip switch A nor B is being grasped by a user during normal flight operations. Various information may also be communicated by way of the activation signal based on user gripping force applied to the grip switches A or B in accordance with which grip switch A or B is being grasped and so forth.

An alarm or control module is also provided and may include a processor or microcontroller an ASIC electronic circuitry executable program code stored on CRSM or other constituency. The alarm or control module may be configured to perform one or more actions based on the activation signal or information encoded therein.

In one example the grip switch module and the alarm or control module are respectively configured to determine if the user has at least one hand grasping the aircraft yoke . In the event that the user lets go of the aircraft yoke completely such that neither of the grip switches A or B is actuated the grip switch module un asserts the activation signal or changes information communicated therein.

In the present example the alarm or control module then initiates a timing function or watchdog timer for example of 10 seconds duration in response to the present state of the activation signal . If the timing function elapses without the user resuming a grip on the aircraft yoke the alarm or control module sounds an audible alarm records corresponding information within an electronic flight log or performs other steps.

In another example a grip switch is provided as part of a throttle control on a railroad engine. A watchdog timer is triggered by the activation signal if the user releases grip of the throttle control as sensed by the associated grip switch . If the timing function elapses for example 20 seconds without the user grasping the throttle control the alarm or control module performs a controlled stop of the railroad engine sounds an audible alarm transmits related information by radio signal or performs other operations. Various operations may be performed in response to the user grasp or absence of grasp of a grip switch . The foregoing dead man s switch applications are just a few of numerous implementations.

As depicted an electrical characteristic of a grip switch such as open closed contacts varying electrical resistance capacitance or inductance a piezoelectric response and so forth is sensed by a grip switch module . The grip switch module may include or have access to a function table stored in CRSM that includes various predefined operations or functions associated with sensed conditions of the grip switch .

The grip switch module may communicate a request or instruction to perform specific ones of these operations by way of the activation signal . A processor controller or another device or system may be configured to respond and perform actions accordingly. The particular operations depicted in the function table are illustrative and non limiting and other suitable operations or steps may also be performed. For example the operations may include transitioning from a first energy consuming state to another activating a device deactivating a device communicating user identity generating an alarm indicating absence of a user detecting hand tremors from the user and activating a line smoothing function and so forth.

Additional operations may be activated in response to a predefined event. This predefined event may include expiration of a timer receipt of other input completion of another operation and so forth. For example a timer may be configured such that five seconds after the grip switch is opened the processor or other electronic circuitry is configured to transition to a low power mode or deactivate completely.

The user device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the user device to communicate with the stylus device or various user devices other computing devices web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as one or more grip switches a global positioning system GPS receiver a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of an accelerometer a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the user device or they may be externally placed.

The user device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the user device and other user devices web based resources routers access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The user device may also include one or more batteries for providing electrical power during normal operations. The battery or batteries may be rechargeable or disposable in nature. Other portable energy sources such as photovoltaic cells and so forth may also be used. The user device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the user device .

The user device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the user device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store the grip switch module and one or more of the application modules as respectively described above. Non limiting examples of the applications modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a digital photograph viewing or editing application and so on.

The memory may further store the communication module such that wireless signaling may be communicated to and from the use device . Additionally the alarm or control module may be stored within the memory as well. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a radio receiver and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other user devices or computing devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more function tables . In one instance a particular functions table is associated with one or more functions performed by way of a particular application module . For example a function table may include instructions communicated from the grip switch module to the processor s while a graphics design application is running. Such a function table may enable the user to select different operations by way of input forces squeeze type gesturing and the like by way of the one or more grip switches . The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

At block a user grips a stylus such that at least a portion of their hand comes in contact with a grip switch . For purposes of a present example the user takes the stylus in hand such that the thumb and forefinger of the user result in a user applied force to the grip switch .

At block a grip switch module provides an activation signal to a processor . In the present example the grip switch changes an electrical characteristic in response to the user gripping force applied thereto. For instance a first electrode and a second electrode are flexed into electrical contact with each other. This closed contact condition is sensed by the grip switch module and an activation signal is asserted in response. The asserted activation signal is communicated to the processor .

At block the processor assumes an active state and activates one or more other elements. In the present example the processor transitions from a power conserving inactive state to a full power active state in response to the asserted activation signal . In turn the processor signals the communication module to assume an active state or condition as well in preparation for normal operations of the stylus .

At block one or more actions by the processor are performed based on user manipulation of the stylus . In the present example the processor initiates an application module such that movements of the stylus are encoded as a data stream and provided to the communication module . The communications module communicates this movement information to the tablet computer using the wireless signaling . In turn the tablet computer initiates a drawing application and presents line segments arcs or other indicia on the display in accordance with the user movement of the stylus .

At block the user sets the stylus aside. In the present example the user sets the stylus aside such that the grip switch is no longer actuated by a user applied force .

At block a non asserted activation signal from the grip switch module is provided to the processor . In the present example the grip switch module un asserts the activation signal being provided to the processor in response to sensing the non gripped condition of the grip switch .

At block the processor deactivates other elements and resumes an inactive state. In the present example the processor responds to the un asserted condition of the activation signal by signaling the communication module to return to a low power inactive state. Thus the wireless signaling ceases as well. The processor then resumes the power conserving inactive state such that electrical power consumption by the stylus as a whole is reduced accordingly.

At block a user grips a user device such that the grip of their fingers is in contact with a grip switch . For purposes of a present example the user device may have communication capabilities. As a result of holding or gripping the user device user applied force activates the grip switch .

At block a grip switch module provides an activation signal to a processor based on the user applied force to the grip switch . In the present example the grip switch changes an electrical characteristic in response to the user gripping force. For instance first and second electrodes and respectively are brought into electrical contact with each other. This closed contact condition is sensed by the grip switch module and an activation signal is asserted in response. For example as described above the grip switch module may detect between the electrodes and a presence of or change in one or more of voltage resistance capacitance or inductance across the electrodes . The asserted activation signal is communicated to the processor .

At block the processor assumes an active state and performs one or more actions. In the present example the processor transitions from a power conserving inactive state to a full power active state in response to the asserted activation signal . In turn the processor initiates a cellular communications mode and presents a user interface including a virtual telephone keypad to the user . The user provides input to the user interface so as to place a cellular telephone call.

At block motion of the user device that is greater than a predetermined value is detected using a GPS receiver . In the present example the user enters an automobile and begins driving in highway traffic after initiating the cellular telephone call. The processor receives motion or velocity related information from the GPS receiver and determines that the user device is presently moving at greater than ten miles per hour MPH a predetermined threshold value. Thus the user device assumes that the user may be driving an automobile while conducting the cellular telephone call a safety concern and perhaps an illegal act in the present jurisdiction. In another instance other devices or a combination of techniques may be used to measure user device motion or velocity such as the accelerometer triangulation of cellular tower signals and so on.

At block the processor ceases or disables one or more functions while the user device remains in motion above the threshold value. In the present example the processor causes the user device to end the cellular telephone call that is presently in progress. Furthermore the processor disables cellular communication functionality while the measured velocity of the user device remains greater than ten MPH. Other safety related operations or functions may also be performed or disabled based on measured velocity geographic location time of day user identity and so on.

In another implementation the processor does not cease or disable cellular functionality but rather presents an alert message to the user such as Do not place cellular calls while operating a motor vehicle or other potentially hazardous equipment. The processor may also be present with the user with an input option such as OK or EXIT so as to remove the alert message. This way non operator passengers in an automobile are not prevented from using cellular communications functions of the user device while in transit.

At block a user grips a user device such that at least a portion of their hand is in contact with a grip switch . For purposes of a present example the user device may include e book reader functionality. The user device also includes a device accessory that is engaged therewith. The user takes the user device in hand such that a user applied force is incident to a grip switch of the device accessory .

At block a grip switch module identifies the user and provides a corresponding signal to a processor . Identification of the user may comprise a determination as to a particular user name account identifier login and so forth of the user who is gripping the user device . In the present example the grip switch module measures a grip pressure or force exerted by the user based on a resistance value exhibited by the grip switch . For instance the grip switch may be analogous to the grip switch . The grip switch module identifies a particular user based on the gripping force and communicates identity information to the processor by way of the activation signal . The user applied force may be determined at a particular instant sampled over time and so forth. For example an initial user applied force may be indicative of the identity of the user . In another example a profile of the user applied force over time may be indicative of the identity of the user .

At block the processor triggers one or more functions based on the identity of the user . In the present example the processor initiates one or more application modules based on the user identity encoded in the activation signal . For instance the processor may access a specific e book presenting a particular page on the display where the identified user left off during a recent reading session. Other operations or actions may also be initiated or performed based on the user identity.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain components steps or operations illustrated in in the figures above can be eliminated taken in an alternate order or otherwise rearranged. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium CRSM can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

