---

title: Systems and methods for providing a multi-core architecture for an acceleration appliance
abstract: The present solution is related to a method for distributing flows of network traffic across a plurality of packet processing engines executing on a corresponding core of a multi-core device. The method includes receiving, by a multi-core device intermediary to clients and servers, a packet of a first flow of network traffic between a client and server. The method also includes assigning, by a flow distributor of the multi-core device, the first flow of network traffic to a first core executing a packet processing engine and distributing the packet to this core. The flow distributor may distribute packets of another or second flow of traffic between another client and server to a second core executing a second packet processing engine. When a packet for the flow of traffic assigned to the first core is received, such as a third packet, the flow distributor distributes this packet to the first core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407554&OS=09407554&RS=09407554
owner: CITRIX SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09407554
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 766 324 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi Core Architecture for an Acceleration Appliance and filed on Apr. 23 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 175 33 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Multi Core Architecture for an Acceleration Appliance all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present application generally relates to architectures of application delivery controllers. In particular the present application relates to systems and methods for providing a multi core application delivery controller.

The web and web applications are going through a period of accelerated evolution. Web applications are moving from the non interactive flat developer controlled web pages that characterize Web 1.0 to the highly interactive dynamic and community enriched web pages that represent Web 2.0. In the last two to three years the explosive popularity of social networking sites like MySpace and Facebook video sites like YouTube and mash ups like Google Maps has called attention to the trends and technologies that make these highly interactive and rich media sites possible. For example enterprise independent software vendors like SAP Microsoft Oracle Intuit and others have taken notice of the possibilities of Web 2.0 technologies and have adopted the technologies to enrich the functionality and user experience of their enterprise web application offerings. Another example of an enterprise application that has incorporated a number of Web 2.0 features is Microsoft SharePoint which is a document sharing and collaboration tool. The latest version of SharePoint 2007 provides a number of collaboration and portal features like team blogs wikis and team calendars that can be customized on an individual basis.

However the increased collaboration features and richness of Web 2.0 technologies comes at a cost. There are more protocols being used such as AJAX Comet Ruby etc. The number of connections between clients and servers are increasing as these protocols generate more connections. These protocols initiate more requests between the client and browser and therefore are consider more chatty. Rich internet applications are increasingly being used like Flash Flex and Silverlight to make Web 2.0 apps more engaging and interactive Also the number of different clients using the web is increasing. In today s always connected world content needs to be optimized for many types of clients e.g. mobile Symbian Blackberry Palm Windows Mobile IE Firefox Chrome etc. 

The present solution is directed towards systems and methods for providing a multi core implementation of an application delivery controller ADC . An architecture of an ADC appliance referred to as nCore technology allows the appliance break the single core performance barrier and to leverage the power of multi core CPUs. With a packet engine running each core the appliance architecture leverages the processing capacity of these packet engines and cores. In some embodiments this provides up to a 7 increase in performance and scalability. Embodiments of the architecture provides a flow based distribution scheme for distributing network packets across cores to more evenly balance processing across the packet engines and cores.

In one aspect the present solution is related to a method for distributing flows of network traffic across a plurality of packet processing engines executing on a corresponding core of a multi core device. The method includes receiving by a multi core device intermediary to clients and servers a packet of a first flow of network traffic between a client and server. The method also includes assigning by a flow distributor of the multi core device the first flow of network traffic to a first core executing a packet processing engine and distributing the packet to this core. The flow distributor may distribute packets of another or second flow of traffic between another client and server to a second core executing a second packet processing engine. When a packet for the flow of traffic assigned to the first core is received such as a third packet the flow distributor distributes this packet to the first core.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving by the flow distributor the first packet from a receive side scaler RSS of the multi core device. The flow distributor may execute on a core of the multi core device designated as a master core. In some cases the flow distributor is distributed across cores or executes on multiple cores.

In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the first flow of network traffic to the first core responsive to the first core establishing one of a session or a connection between the first server and the first client. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the first flow of network traffic to the first core responsive to the first core based on response from the first server to a request of the first client. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the first packet via memory shared by or allocated to the first core. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the second flow of network traffic to the second core responsive to the second core establishing one of a session or a connection to the second server for the second client.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving by the flow distributor the third packet from the receive side scaler distributed by the RSS to a third core and redistributing the third packet to the first core. In some embodiments any of the first second third or other packets may be received via any one or more network interfaces such as a first network interface card and a second network interface card.

In some aspects the present solution is related to a system for distributing flows of network traffic across a plurality of packet processing engines executing on a corresponding core of a multi core device. The system comprising a network interface of a multi core device intermediary to a plurality of clients and a plurality of servers. The network interface receives a first packet of a first flow of network traffic between a first client of the plurality of clients and a first server of a plurality of servers. The system also includes a flow distributor which assigns the first flow to a first core executing a first packet processing engine of a plurality of packet processing engine executed by the multi core device and distributes the first packet to the first core. The flow distributor also distributes a second packet of a second flow of network traffic between a second client and a second server to a second core executing a second packet processing engine of the plurality of packet processing engines. The flow distributor determines to distribute to the first core a third packet received by the multi core device for the first flow of network traffic.

In some embodiments of the system the flow distributor receives network packets distributed by a receive side scaler RSS of the multi core device. The flow distributor may execute on a core of the multi core device designated as a master core. The flow distributor may execute across a plurality of cores of the multi core device. The flow distributor may distributes the first packet via memory shared by or allocated to the first core

In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the first flow of network traffic to the first core responsive to the first core establishing one of a session or a connection to the first server for the first client. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the first flow of network traffic to the first core based on a response from the first server to a request of the first client. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns the second flow of network traffic to the second core responsive to the second core establishing one of a session or a connection to the second server for the second client. In some embodiments the flow distributor receives the third packet from the receive side scaler distributed by the RSS to a third core and redistributing the third packet to the first core. In some embodiments the first packet is received via a first network interface of the multi core and the third packet is received via a second network interface of the multi core device.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

Prior to discussing the specifics of embodiments of the systems and methods of an appliance and or client it may be helpful to discuss the network and computing environments in which such embodiments may be deployed. Referring now to an embodiment of a network environment is depicted. In brief overview the network environment comprises one or more clients also generally referred to as local machine s or client s in communication with one or more servers also generally referred to as server s or remote machine s via one or more networks generally referred to as network . In some embodiments a client communicates with a server via an appliance .

Although shows a network and a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . The networks and can be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network and or the network can be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. In one embodiment network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks and may both be private networks. In some embodiments clients may be located at a branch office of a corporate enterprise communicating via a WAN connection over the network to the servers located at a corporate data center.

The network and or be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network and or may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and or and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

As shown in the appliance which also may be referred to as an interface unit or gateway is shown between the networks and . In some embodiments the appliance may be located on network . For example a branch office of a corporate enterprise may deploy an appliance at the branch office. In other embodiments the appliance may be located on network . For example an appliance may be located at a corporate data center. In yet another embodiment a plurality of appliances may be deployed on network . In some embodiments a plurality of appliances may be deployed on network . In one embodiment a first appliance communicates with a second appliance . In other embodiments the appliance could be a part of any client or server on the same or different network as the client . One or more appliances may be located at any point in the network or network communications path between a client and a server .

In some embodiments the appliance comprises any of the network devices manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. referred to as Citrix NetScaler devices. In other embodiments the appliance includes any of the product embodiments referred to as WebAccelerator and BigIP manufactured by F5 Networks Inc. of Seattle Wash. In another embodiment the appliance includes any of the DX acceleration device platforms and or the SSL VPN series of devices such as SA 700 SA 2000 SA 4000 and SA 6000 devices manufactured by Juniper Networks Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. In yet another embodiment the appliance includes any application acceleration and or security related appliances and or software manufactured by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. such as the Cisco ACE Application Control Engine Module service software and network modules and Cisco AVS Series Application Velocity System.

In one embodiment the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In these embodiments the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm . In some of these embodiments the serves may be geographically dispersed. In some cases a farm may be administered as a single entity. In other embodiments the server farm comprises a plurality of server farms . In one embodiment the server farm executes one or more applications on behalf of one or more clients .

The servers within each farm can be heterogeneous. One or more of the servers can operate according to one type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS NT manufactured by Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. while one or more of the other servers can operate on according to another type of operating system platform e.g. Unix or Linux . The servers of each farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or medium area network MAN connection. For example a farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection.

Servers may be referred to as a file server application server web server proxy server or gateway server. In some embodiments a server may have the capacity to function as either an application server or as a master application server. In one embodiment a server may include an Active Directory. The clients may also be referred to as client nodes or endpoints. In some embodiments a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to applications on a server and as an application server providing access to hosted applications for other clients 

In some embodiments a client communicates with a server . In one embodiment the client communicates directly with one of the servers in a farm . In another embodiment the client executes a program neighborhood application to communicate with a server in a farm . In still another embodiment the server provides the functionality of a master node. In some embodiments the client communicates with the server in the farm through a network . Over the network the client can for example request execution of various applications hosted by the servers in the farm and receive output of the results of the application execution for display. In some embodiments only the master node provides the functionality required to identify and provide address information associated with a server hosting a requested application.

In one embodiment the server provides functionality of a web server. In another embodiment the server receives requests from the client forwards the requests to a second server and responds to the request by the client with a response to the request from the server . In still another embodiment the server acquires an enumeration of applications available to the client and address information associated with a server hosting an application identified by the enumeration of applications. In yet another embodiment the server presents the response to the request to the client using a web interface. In one embodiment the client communicates directly with the server to access the identified application. In another embodiment the client receives application output data such as display data generated by an execution of the identified application on the server .

Referring now to an embodiment of a network environment deploying multiple appliances is depicted. A first appliance may be deployed on a first network and a second appliance on a second network . For example a corporate enterprise may deploy a first appliance at a branch office and a second appliance at a data center. In another embodiment the first appliance and second appliance are deployed on the same network or network . For example a first appliance may be deployed for a first server farm and a second appliance may be deployed for a second server farm . In another example a first appliance may be deployed at a first branch office while the second appliance is deployed at a second branch office . In some embodiments the first appliance and second appliance work in cooperation or in conjunction with each other to accelerate network traffic or the delivery of application and data between a client and a server

Referring now to another embodiment of a network environment deploying the appliance with one or more other types of appliances such as between one or more WAN optimization appliance is depicted. For example a first WAN optimization appliance is shown between networks and and s second WAN optimization appliance may be deployed between the appliance and one or more servers . By way of example a corporate enterprise may deploy a first WAN optimization appliance at a branch office and a second WAN optimization appliance at a data center. In some embodiments the appliance may be located on network . In other embodiments the appliance may be located on network . In some embodiments the appliance may be located on network or network . In one embodiment the appliance and are on the same network. In another embodiment the appliance and are on different networks. In another example a first WAN optimization appliance may be deployed for a first server farm and a second WAN optimization appliance for a second server farm 

In one embodiment the appliance is a device for accelerating optimizing or otherwise improving the performance operation or quality of service of any type and form of network traffic such as traffic to and or from a WAN connection. In some embodiments the appliance is a performance enhancing proxy. In other embodiments the appliance is any type and form of WAN optimization or acceleration device sometimes also referred to as a WAN optimization controller. In one embodiment the appliance is any of the product embodiments referred to as WANScaler manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. In other embodiments the appliance includes any of the product embodiments referred to as BIG IP link controller and WANjet manufactured by F5 Networks Inc. of Seattle Wash. In another embodiment the appliance includes any of the WX and WXC WAN acceleration device platforms manufactured by Juniper Networks Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. In some embodiments the appliance includes any of the steelhead line of WAN optimization appliances manufactured by Riverbed Technology of San Francisco Calif. In other embodiments the appliance includes any of the WAN related devices manufactured by Expand Networks Inc. of Roseland N.J. In one embodiment the appliance includes any of the WAN related appliances manufactured by Packeteer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. such as the PacketShaper iShared and SkyX product embodiments provided by Packeteer. In yet another embodiment the appliance includes any WAN related appliances and or software manufactured by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. such as the Cisco Wide Area Network Application Services software and network modules and Wide Area Network engine appliances.

In one embodiment the appliance provides application and data acceleration services for branch office or remote offices. In one embodiment the appliance includes optimization of Wide Area File Services WAFS . In another embodiment the appliance accelerates the delivery of files such as via the Common Internet File System CIFS protocol. In other embodiments the appliance provides caching in memory and or storage to accelerate delivery of applications and data. In one embodiment the appliance provides compression of network traffic at any level of the network stack or at any protocol or network layer. In another embodiment the appliance provides transport layer protocol optimizations flow control performance enhancements or modifications and or management to accelerate delivery of applications and data over a WAN connection. For example in one embodiment the appliance provides Transport Control Protocol TCP optimizations. In other embodiments the appliance provides optimizations flow control performance enhancements or modifications and or management for any session or application layer protocol.

In another embodiment the appliance encoded any type and form of data or information into custom or standard TCP and or IP header fields or option fields of network packet to announce presence functionality or capability to another appliance . In another embodiment an appliance may communicate with another appliance using data encoded in both TCP and or IP header fields or options. For example the appliance may use TCP option s or IP header fields or options to communicate one or more parameters to be used by the appliances in performing functionality such as WAN acceleration or for working in conjunction with each other.

In some embodiments the appliance preserves any of the information encoded in TCP and or IP header and or option fields communicated between appliances and . For example the appliance may terminate a transport layer connection traversing the appliance such as a transport layer connection from between a client and a server traversing appliances and . In one embodiment the appliance identifies and preserves any encoded information in a transport layer packet transmitted by a first appliance via a first transport layer connection and communicates a transport layer packet with the encoded information to a second appliance via a second transport layer connection.

Referring now to a network environment for delivering and or operating a computing environment on a client is depicted. In some embodiments a server includes an application delivery system for delivering a computing environment or an application and or data file to one or more clients . In brief overview a client is in communication with a server via network and appliance . For example the client may reside in a remote office of a company e.g. a branch office and the server may reside at a corporate data center. The client comprises a client agent and a computing environment . The computing environment may execute or operate an application that accesses processes or uses a data file. The computing environment application and or data file may be delivered via the appliance and or the server .

In some embodiments the appliance accelerates delivery of a computing environment or any portion thereof to a client . In one embodiment the appliance accelerates the delivery of the computing environment by the application delivery system . For example the embodiments described herein may be used to accelerate delivery of a streaming application and data file processable by the application from a central corporate data center to a remote user location such as a branch office of the company. In another embodiment the appliance accelerates transport layer traffic between a client and a server . The appliance may provide acceleration techniques for accelerating any transport layer payload from a server to a client such as 1 transport layer connection pooling 2 transport layer connection multiplexing 3 transport control protocol buffering 4 compression and 5 caching. In some embodiments the appliance provides load balancing of servers in responding to requests from clients . In other embodiments the appliance acts as a proxy or access server to provide access to the one or more servers . In another embodiment the appliance provides a secure virtual private network connection from a first network of the client to the second network of the server such as an SSL VPN connection. It yet other embodiments the appliance provides application firewall security control and management of the connection and communications between a client and a server .

In some embodiments the application delivery management system provides application delivery techniques to deliver a computing environment to a desktop of a user remote or otherwise based on a plurality of execution methods and based on any authentication and authorization policies applied via a policy engine . With these techniques a remote user may obtain a computing environment and access to server stored applications and data files from any network connected device . In one embodiment the application delivery system may reside or execute on a server . In another embodiment the application delivery system may reside or execute on a plurality of servers . In some embodiments the application delivery system may execute in a server farm . In one embodiment the server executing the application delivery system may also store or provide the application and data file. In another embodiment a first set of one or more servers may execute the application delivery system and a different server may store or provide the application and data file. In some embodiments each of the application delivery system the application and data file may reside or be located on different servers. In yet another embodiment any portion of the application delivery system may reside execute or be stored on or distributed to the appliance or a plurality of appliances.

The client may include a computing environment for executing an application that uses or processes a data file. The client via networks and appliance may request an application and data file from the server . In one embodiment the appliance may forward a request from the client to the server . For example the client may not have the application and data file stored or accessible locally. In response to the request the application delivery system and or server may deliver the application and data file to the client . For example in one embodiment the server may transmit the application as an application stream to operate in computing environment on client .

In some embodiments the application delivery system comprises any portion of the Citrix Access Suite by Citrix Systems Inc. such as the MetaFrame or Citrix Presentation Server and or any of the Microsoft Windows Terminal Services manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation. In one embodiment the application delivery system may deliver one or more applications to clients or users via a remote display protocol or otherwise via remote based or server based computing. In another embodiment the application delivery system may deliver one or more applications to clients or users via steaming of the application.

In one embodiment the application delivery system includes a policy engine for controlling and managing the access to selection of application execution methods and the delivery of applications. In some embodiments the policy engine determines the one or more applications a user or client may access. In another embodiment the policy engine determines how the application should be delivered to the user or client e.g. the method of execution. In some embodiments the application delivery system provides a plurality of delivery techniques from which to select a method of application execution such as a server based computing streaming or delivering the application locally to the client for local execution.

In one embodiment a client requests execution of an application program and the application delivery system comprising a server selects a method of executing the application program. In some embodiments the server receives credentials from the client . In another embodiment the server receives a request for an enumeration of available applications from the client . In one embodiment in response to the request or receipt of credentials the application delivery system enumerates a plurality of application programs available to the client . The application delivery system receives a request to execute an enumerated application. The application delivery system selects one of a predetermined number of methods for executing the enumerated application for example responsive to a policy of a policy engine. The application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application enabling the client to receive application output data generated by execution of the application program on a server . The application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application enabling the local machine to execute the application program locally after retrieving a plurality of application files comprising the application. In yet another embodiment the application delivery system may select a method of execution of the application to stream the application via the network to the client .

A client may execute operate or otherwise provide an application which can be any type and or form of software program or executable instructions such as any type and or form of web browser web based client client server application a thin client computing client an ActiveX control or a Java applet or any other type and or form of executable instructions capable of executing on client . In some embodiments the application may be a server based or a remote based application executed on behalf of the client on a server . In one embodiments the server may display output to the client using any thin client or remote display protocol such as the Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. or the Remote Desktop Protocol RDP manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The application can use any type of protocol and it can be for example an HTTP client an FTP client an Oscar client or a Telnet client. In other embodiments the application comprises any type of software related to VoIP communications such as a soft IP telephone. In further embodiments the application comprises any application related to real time data communications such as applications for streaming video and or audio.

In some embodiments the server or a server farm may be running one or more applications such as an application providing a thin client computing or remote display presentation application. In one embodiment the server or server farm executes as an application any portion of the Citrix Access Suite by Citrix Systems Inc. such as the MetaFrame or Citrix Presentation Server and or any of the Microsoft Windows Terminal Services manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation. In one embodiment the application is an ICA client developed by Citrix Systems Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla. In other embodiments the application includes a Remote Desktop RDP client developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Also the server may run an application which for example may be an application server providing email services such as Microsoft Exchange manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. a web or Internet server or a desktop sharing server or a collaboration server. In some embodiments any of the applications may comprise any type of hosted service or products such as GoToMeeting provided by Citrix Online Division Inc. of Santa Barbara Calif. WebEx provided by WebEx Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. or Microsoft Office Live Meeting provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

Still referring to an embodiment of the network environment may include a monitoring server A. The monitoring server A may include any type and form performance monitoring service . The performance monitoring service may include monitoring measurement and or management software and or hardware including data collection aggregation analysis management and reporting. In one embodiment the performance monitoring service includes one or more monitoring agents . The monitoring agent includes any software hardware or combination thereof for performing monitoring measurement and data collection activities on a device such as a client server or an appliance . In some embodiments the monitoring agent includes any type and form of script such as Visual Basic script or Javascript. In one embodiment the monitoring agent executes transparently to any application and or user of the device. In some embodiments the monitoring agent is installed and operated unobtrusively to the application or client. In yet another embodiment the monitoring agent is installed and operated without any instrumentation for the application or device.

In some embodiments the monitoring agent monitors measures and collects data on a predetermined frequency. In other embodiments the monitoring agent monitors measures and collects data based upon detection of any type and form of event. For example the monitoring agent may collect data upon detection of a request for a web page or receipt of an HTTP response. In another example the monitoring agent may collect data upon detection of any user input events such as a mouse click. The monitoring agent may report or provide any monitored measured or collected data to the monitoring service . In one embodiment the monitoring agent transmits information to the monitoring service according to a schedule or a predetermined frequency. In another embodiment the monitoring agent transmits information to the monitoring service upon detection of an event.

In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent performs monitoring and performance measurement of any network resource or network infrastructure element such as a client server server farm appliance appliance or network connection. In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent performs monitoring and performance measurement of any transport layer connection such as a TCP or UDP connection. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures network latency. In yet one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures bandwidth utilization.

In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures end user response times. In some embodiments the monitoring service performs monitoring and performance measurement of an application. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent performs monitoring and performance measurement of any session or connection to the application. In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of a browser. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of HTTP based transactions. In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of a Voice over IP VoIP application or session. In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of a remote display protocol application such as an ICA client or RDP client. In yet another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of any type and form of streaming media. In still a further embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of a hosted application or a Software As A Service SaaS delivery model.

In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent performs monitoring and performance measurement of one or more transactions requests or responses related to application. In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures any portion of an application layer stack such as any .NET or J2EE calls. In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures database or SQL transactions. In yet another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures any method function or application programming interface API call.

In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent performs monitoring and performance measurement of a delivery of application and or data from a server to a client via one or more appliances such as appliance and or appliance . In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of delivery of a virtualized application. In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of delivery of a streaming application. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of delivery of a desktop application to a client and or the execution of the desktop application on the client. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors and measures performance of a client server application.

In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent is designed and constructed to provide application performance management for the application delivery system . For example the monitoring service and or monitoring agent may monitor measure and manage the performance of the delivery of applications via the Citrix Presentation Server. In this example the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors individual ICA sessions. The monitoring service and or monitoring agent may measure the total and per session system resource usage as well as application and networking performance. The monitoring service and or monitoring agent may identify the active servers for a given user and or user session. In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent monitors back end connections between the application delivery system and an application and or database server. The monitoring service and or monitoring agent may measure network latency delay and volume per user session or ICA session.

In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors memory usage for the application delivery system such as total memory usage per user session and or per process. In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors CPU usage the application delivery system such as total CPU usage per user session and or per process. In another embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors the time required to log in to an application a server or the application delivery system such as Citrix Presentation Server. In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors the duration a user is logged into an application a server or the application delivery system . In some embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors active and inactive session counts for an application server or application delivery system session. In yet another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors user session latency.

In yet further embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors measures and monitors any type and form of server metrics. In one embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors metrics related to system memory CPU usage and disk storage. In another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors metrics related to page faults such as page faults per second. In other embodiments the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors round trip time metrics. In yet another embodiment the monitoring service and or monitoring agent measures and monitors metrics related to application crashes errors and or hangs.

In some embodiments the monitoring service and monitoring agent includes any of the product embodiments referred to as EdgeSight manufactured by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. In another embodiment the performance monitoring service and or monitoring agent includes any portion of the product embodiments referred to as the TrueView product suite manufactured by the Symphoniq Corporation of Palo Alto Calif. In one embodiment the performance monitoring service and or monitoring agent includes any portion of the product embodiments referred to as the TeaLeaf CX product suite manufactured by the TeaLeaf Technology Inc. of San Francisco Calif. In other embodiments the performance monitoring service and or monitoring agent includes any portion of the business service management products such as the BMC Performance Manager and Patrol products manufactured by BMC Software Inc. of Houston Texas.

The client server and appliance may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. depict block diagrams of a computing device useful for practicing an embodiment of the client server or appliance . As shown in each computing device includes a central processing unit and a main memory unit . As shown in a computing device may include a visual display device a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse. Each computing device may also include additional optional elements such as one or more input output devices generally referred to using reference numeral and a cache memory in communication with the central processing unit .

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Illinois those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as any client agent or portion thereof. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the client agent . Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device . Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD such as KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein. A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices such as computing devices and connected to the computing device for example via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire 800 bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

A computing device of the sort depicted in typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. For example in one embodiment the computer is a Treo 180 270 1060 600 or 650 smart phone manufactured by Palm Inc. In this embodiment the Treo smart phone is operated under the control of the PalmOS operating system and includes a stylus input device as well as a five way navigator device. Moreover the computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone any other computer or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.

As shown in the computing device may comprise multiple processors and may provide functionality for simultaneous execution of instructions or for simultaneous execution of one instruction on more than one piece of data. In some embodiments the computing device may comprise a parallel processor with one or more cores. In one of these embodiments the computing device is a shared memory parallel device with multiple processors and or multiple processor cores accessing all available memory as a single global address space. In another of these embodiments the computing device is a distributed memory parallel device with multiple processors each accessing local memory only. In still another of these embodiments the computing device has both some memory which is shared and some memory which can only be accessed by particular processors or subsets of processors. In still even another of these embodiments the computing device such as a multicore microprocessor combines two or more independent processors into a single package often a single integrated circuit IC . In yet another of these embodiments the computing device includes a chip having a CELL BROADBAND ENGINE architecture and including a Power processor element and a plurality of synergistic processing elements the Power processor element and the plurality of synergistic processing elements linked together by an internal high speed bus which may be referred to as an element interconnect bus.

In some embodiments the processors provide functionality for execution of a single instruction simultaneously on multiple pieces of data SIMD . In other embodiments the processors provide functionality for execution of multiple instructions simultaneously on multiple pieces of data MIMD . In still other embodiments the processor may use any combination of SIMD and MIMD cores in a single device.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise a graphics processing unit. In one of these embodiments depicted in the computing device includes at least one central processing unit and at least one graphics processing unit. In another of these embodiments the computing device includes at least one parallel processing unit and at least one graphics processing unit. In still another of these embodiments the computing device includes a plurality of processing units of any type one of the plurality of processing units comprising a graphics processing unit.

In some embodiments a first computing device executes an application on behalf of a user of a client computing device . In other embodiments a computing device executes a virtual machine which provides an execution session within which applications execute on behalf of a user or a client computing devices . In one of these embodiments the execution session is a hosted desktop session. In another of these embodiments the computing device executes a terminal services session. The terminal services session may provide a hosted desktop environment. In still another of these embodiments the execution session provides access to a computing environment which may comprise one or more of an application a plurality of applications a desktop application and a desktop session in which one or more applications may execute.

Hardware layer provides the hardware elements upon which programs and services within kernel space and user space are executed. Hardware layer also provides the structures and elements which allow programs and services within kernel space and user space to communicate data both internally and externally with respect to appliance . As shown in the hardware layer includes a processing unit for executing software programs and services a memory for storing software and data network ports for transmitting and receiving data over a network and an encryption processor for performing functions related to Secure Sockets Layer processing of data transmitted and received over the network. In some embodiments the central processing unit may perform the functions of the encryption processor in a single processor. Additionally the hardware layer may comprise multiple processors for each of the processing unit and the encryption processor . The processor may include any of the processors described above in connection with . In some embodiments the central processing unit may perform the functions of the encryption processor in a single processor. Additionally the hardware layer may comprise multiple processors for each of the processing unit and the encryption processor . For example in one embodiment the appliance comprises a first processor and a second processor . In other embodiments the processor or comprises a multi core processor.

Although the hardware layer of appliance is generally illustrated with an encryption processor processor may be a processor for performing functions related to any encryption protocol such as the Secure Socket Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS protocol. In some embodiments the processor may be a general purpose processor GPP and in further embodiments may be have executable instructions for performing processing of any security related protocol.

Although the hardware layer of appliance is illustrated with certain elements in the hardware portions or components of appliance may comprise any type and form of elements hardware or software of a computing device such as the computing device illustrated and discussed herein in conjunction with . In some embodiments the appliance may comprise a server gateway router switch bridge or other type of computing or network device and have any hardware and or software elements associated therewith.

The operating system of appliance allocates manages or otherwise segregates the available system memory into kernel space and user space . In example software architecture the operating system may be any type and or form of Unix operating system although the invention is not so limited. As such the appliance can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any network operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or network devices or any other operating system capable of running on the appliance and performing the operations described herein.

The kernel space is reserved for running the kernel including any device drivers kernel extensions or other kernel related software. As known to those skilled in the art the kernel is the core of the operating system and provides access control and management of resources and hardware related elements of the application . In accordance with an embodiment of the appliance the kernel space also includes a number of network services or processes working in conjunction with a cache manager sometimes also referred to as the integrated cache the benefits of which are described in detail further herein. Additionally the embodiment of the kernel will depend on the embodiment of the operating system installed configured or otherwise used by the device .

In one embodiment the device comprises one network stack such as a TCP IP based stack for communicating with the client and or the server . In one embodiment the network stack is used to communicate with a first network such as network and a second network . In some embodiments the device terminates a first transport layer connection such as a TCP connection of a client and establishes a second transport layer connection to a server for use by the client e.g. the second transport layer connection is terminated at the appliance and the server . The first and second transport layer connections may be established via a single network stack . In other embodiments the device may comprise multiple network stacks for example and and the first transport layer connection may be established or terminated at one network stack and the second transport layer connection on the second network stack . For example one network stack may be for receiving and transmitting network packet on a first network and another network stack for receiving and transmitting network packets on a second network. In one embodiment the network stack comprises a buffer for queuing one or more network packets for transmission by the appliance .

As shown in the kernel space includes the cache manager a high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine an encryption engine a policy engine and multi protocol compression logic . Running these components or processes and in kernel space or kernel mode instead of the user space improves the performance of each of these components alone and in combination. Kernel operation means that these components or processes and run in the core address space of the operating system of the device . For example running the encryption engine in kernel mode improves encryption performance by moving encryption and decryption operations to the kernel thereby reducing the number of transitions between the memory space or a kernel thread in kernel mode and the memory space or a thread in user mode. For example data obtained in kernel mode may not need to be passed or copied to a process or thread running in user mode such as from a kernel level data structure to a user level data structure. In another aspect the number of context switches between kernel mode and user mode are also reduced. Additionally synchronization of and communications between any of the components or processes and can be performed more efficiently in the kernel space .

In some embodiments any portion of the components and may run or operate in the kernel space while other portions of these components and may run or operate in user space . In one embodiment the appliance uses a kernel level data structure providing access to any portion of one or more network packets for example a network packet comprising a request from a client or a response from a server . In some embodiments the kernel level data structure may be obtained by the packet engine via a transport layer driver interface or filter to the network stack . The kernel level data structure may comprise any interface and or data accessible via the kernel space related to the network stack network traffic or packets received or transmitted by the network stack . In other embodiments the kernel level data structure may be used by any of the components or processes and to perform the desired operation of the component or process. In one embodiment a component and is running in kernel mode when using the kernel level data structure while in another embodiment the component and is running in user mode when using the kernel level data structure. In some embodiments the kernel level data structure may be copied or passed to a second kernel level data structure or any desired user level data structure.

The cache manager may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware to provide cache access control and management of any type and form of content such as objects or dynamically generated objects served by the originating servers . The data objects or content processed and stored by the cache manager may comprise data in any format such as a markup language or communicated via any protocol. In some embodiments the cache manager duplicates original data stored elsewhere or data previously computed generated or transmitted in which the original data may require longer access time to fetch compute or otherwise obtain relative to reading a cache memory element. Once the data is stored in the cache memory element future use can be made by accessing the cached copy rather than refetching or recomputing the original data thereby reducing the access time. In some embodiments the cache memory element may comprise a data object in memory of device . In other embodiments the cache memory element may comprise memory having a faster access time than memory . In another embodiment the cache memory element may comprise any type and form of storage element of the device such as a portion of a hard disk. In some embodiments the processing unit may provide cache memory for use by the cache manager . In yet further embodiments the cache manager may use any portion and combination of memory storage or the processing unit for caching data objects and other content.

Furthermore the cache manager includes any logic functions rules or operations to perform any embodiments of the techniques of the appliance described herein. For example the cache manager includes logic or functionality to invalidate objects based on the expiration of an invalidation time period or upon receipt of an invalidation command from a client or server . In some embodiments the cache manager may operate as a program service process or task executing in the kernel space and in other embodiments in the user space . In one embodiment a first portion of the cache manager executes in the user space while a second portion executes in the kernel space . In some embodiments the cache manager can comprise any type of general purpose processor GPP or any other type of integrated circuit such as a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Programmable Logic Device PLD or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC .

The policy engine may include for example an intelligent statistical engine or other programmable application s . In one embodiment the policy engine provides a configuration mechanism to allow a user to identifying specify define or configure a caching policy. Policy engine in some embodiments also has access to memory to support data structures such as lookup tables or hash tables to enable user selected caching policy decisions. In other embodiments the policy engine may comprise any logic rules functions or operations to determine and provide access control and management of objects data or content being cached by the appliance in addition to access control and management of security network traffic network access compression or any other function or operation performed by the appliance . Further examples of specific caching policies are further described herein.

The encryption engine comprises any logic business rules functions or operations for handling the processing of any security related protocol such as SSL or TLS or any function related thereto. For example the encryption engine encrypts and decrypts network packets or any portion thereof communicated via the appliance . The encryption engine may also setup or establish SSL or TLS connections on behalf of the client server or appliance . As such the encryption engine provides offloading and acceleration of SSL processing. In one embodiment the encryption engine uses a tunneling protocol to provide a virtual private network between a client and a server . In some embodiments the encryption engine is in communication with the Encryption processor . In other embodiments the encryption engine comprises executable instructions running on the Encryption processor .

The multi protocol compression engine comprises any logic business rules function or operations for compressing one or more protocols of a network packet such as any of the protocols used by the network stack of the device . In one embodiment multi protocol compression engine compresses bi directionally between clients and servers any TCP IP based protocol including Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI email File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Common Internet File System CIFS protocol file transfer Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol Remote Desktop Protocol RDP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Mobile IP protocol and Voice Over IP VoIP protocol. In other embodiments multi protocol compression engine provides compression of Hypertext Markup Language HTML based protocols and in some embodiments provides compression of any markup languages such as the Extensible Markup Language XML . In one embodiment the multi protocol compression engine provides compression of any high performance protocol such as any protocol designed for appliance to appliance communications. In another embodiment the multi protocol compression engine compresses any payload of or any communication using a modified transport control protocol such as Transaction TCP T TCP TCP with selection acknowledgements TCP SACK TCP with large windows TCP LW a congestion prediction protocol such as the TCP Vegas protocol and a TCP spoofing protocol.

As such the multi protocol compression engine accelerates performance for users accessing applications via desktop clients e.g. Microsoft Outlook and non Web thin clients such as any client launched by popular enterprise applications like Oracle SAP and Siebel and even mobile clients such as the Pocket PC. In some embodiments the multi protocol compression engine by executing in the kernel mode and integrating with packet processing engine accessing the network stack is able to compress any of the protocols carried by the TCP IP protocol such as any application layer protocol.

High speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine also generally referred to as a packet processing engine or packet engine is responsible for managing the kernel level processing of packets received and transmitted by appliance via network ports . The high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine may comprise a buffer for queuing one or more network packets during processing such as for receipt of a network packet or transmission of a network packer. Additionally the high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine is in communication with one or more network stacks to send and receive network packets via network ports . The high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine works in conjunction with encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic . In particular encryption engine is configured to perform SSL processing of packets policy engine is configured to perform functions related to traffic management such as request level content switching and request level cache redirection and multi protocol compression logic is configured to perform functions related to compression and decompression of data.

The high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine includes a packet processing timer . In one embodiment the packet processing timer provides one or more time intervals to trigger the processing of incoming i.e. received or outgoing i.e. transmitted network packets. In some embodiments the high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine processes network packets responsive to the timer . The packet processing timer provides any type and form of signal to the packet engine to notify trigger or communicate a time related event interval or occurrence. In many embodiments the packet processing timer operates in the order of milliseconds such as for example 100 ms 50 ms or 25 ms. For example in some embodiments the packet processing timer provides time intervals or otherwise causes a network packet to be processed by the high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine at a 10 ms time interval while in other embodiments at a 5 ms time interval and still yet in further embodiments as short as a 3 2 or 1 ms time interval. The high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine may be interfaced integrated or in communication with the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression engine during operation. As such any of the logic functions or operations of the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic may be performed responsive to the packet processing timer and or the packet engine . Therefore any of the logic functions or operations of the encryption engine cache manager policy engine and multi protocol compression logic may be performed at the granularity of time intervals provided via the packet processing timer for example at a time interval of less than or equal to 10 ms. For example in one embodiment the cache manager may perform invalidation of any cached objects responsive to the high speed layer 2 7 integrated packet engine and or the packet processing timer . In another embodiment the expiry or invalidation time of a cached object can be set to the same order of granularity as the time interval of the packet processing timer such as at every 10 ms.

In contrast to kernel space user space is the memory area or portion of the operating system used by user mode applications or programs otherwise running in user mode. A user mode application may not access kernel space directly and uses service calls in order to access kernel services. As shown in user space of appliance includes a graphical user interface GUI a command line interface CLI shell services health monitoring program and daemon services . GUI and CLI provide a means by which a system administrator or other user can interact with and control the operation of appliance such as via the operating system of the appliance and either is user space or kernel space . The GUI may be any type and form of graphical user interface and may be presented via text graphical or otherwise by any type of program or application such as a browser. The CLI may be any type and form of command line or text based interface such as a command line provided by the operating system. For example the CLI may comprise a shell which is a tool to enable users to interact with the operating system. In some embodiments the CLI may be provided via a bash csh tcsh or ksh type shell. The shell services comprises the programs services tasks processes or executable instructions to support interaction with the appliance or operating system by a user via the GUI and or CLI .

Health monitoring program is used to monitor check report and ensure that network systems are functioning properly and that users are receiving requested content over a network. Health monitoring program comprises one or more programs services tasks processes or executable instructions to provide logic rules functions or operations for monitoring any activity of the appliance . In some embodiments the health monitoring program intercepts and inspects any network traffic passed via the appliance . In other embodiments the health monitoring program interfaces by any suitable means and or mechanisms with one or more of the following the encryption engine cache manager policy engine multi protocol compression logic packet engine daemon services and shell services . As such the health monitoring program may call any application programming interface API to determine a state status or health of any portion of the appliance . For example the health monitoring program may ping or send a status inquiry on a periodic basis to check if a program process service or task is active and currently running. In another example the health monitoring program may check any status error or history logs provided by any program process service or task to determine any condition status or error with any portion of the appliance .

Daemon services are programs that run continuously or in the background and handle periodic service requests received by appliance . In some embodiments a daemon service may forward the requests to other programs or processes such as another daemon service as appropriate. As known to those skilled in the art a daemon service may run unattended to perform continuous or periodic system wide functions such as network control or to perform any desired task. In some embodiments one or more daemon services run in the user space while in other embodiments one or more daemon services run in the kernel space.

Referring now to another embodiment of the appliance is depicted. In brief overview the appliance provides one or more of the following services functionality or operations SSL VPN connectivity switching load balancing Domain Name Service resolution acceleration and an application firewall for communications between one or more clients and one or more servers . Each of the servers may provide one or more network related services referred to as services . For example a server may provide an http service . The appliance comprises one or more virtual servers or virtual internet protocol servers referred to as a vServer VIP server or just VIP also referred herein as vServer . The vServer receives intercepts or otherwise processes communications between a client and a server in accordance with the configuration and operations of the appliance .

The vServer may comprise software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. The vServer may comprise any type and form of program service task process or executable instructions operating in user mode kernel mode or any combination thereof in the appliance . The vServer includes any logic functions rules or operations to perform any embodiments of the techniques described herein such as SSL VPN switching load balancing Domain Name Service resolution acceleration and an application firewall . In some embodiments the vServer establishes a connection to a service of a server . The service may comprise any program application process task or set of executable instructions capable of connecting to and communicating to the appliance client or vServer . For example the service may comprise a web server http server ftp email or database server. In some embodiments the service is a daemon process or network driver for listening receiving and or sending communications for an application such as email database or an enterprise application. In some embodiments the service may communicate on a specific IP address or IP address and port.

In some embodiments the vServer applies one or more policies of the policy engine to network communications between the client and server . In one embodiment the policies are associated with a VServer . In another embodiment the policies are based on a user or a group of users. In yet another embodiment a policy is global and applies to one or more vServers and any user or group of users communicating via the appliance . In some embodiments the policies of the policy engine have conditions upon which the policy is applied based on any content of the communication such as internet protocol address port protocol type header or fields in a packet or the context of the communication such as user group of the user vServer transport layer connection and or identification or attributes of the client or server .

In other embodiments the appliance communicates or interfaces with the policy engine to determine authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client to access the computing environment application and or data file from a server . In another embodiment the appliance communicates or interfaces with the policy engine to determine authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client to have the application delivery system deliver one or more of the computing environment application and or data file. In yet another embodiment the appliance establishes a VPN or SSL VPN connection based on the policy engine s authentication and or authorization of a remote user or a remote client In one embodiment the appliance controls the flow of network traffic and communication sessions based on policies of the policy engine . For example the appliance may control the access to a computing environment application or data file based on the policy engine .

In some embodiments the vServer establishes a transport layer connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with a client via the client agent . In one embodiment the vServer listens for and receives communications from the client . In other embodiments the vServer establishes a transport layer connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with a client server . In one embodiment the vServer establishes the transport layer connection to an internet protocol address and port of a server running on the server . In another embodiment the vServer associates a first transport layer connection to a client with a second transport layer connection to the server . In some embodiments a vServer establishes a pool of tranport layer connections to a server and multiplexes client requests via the pooled transport layer connections.

In some embodiments the appliance provides a SSL VPN connection between a client and a server . For example a client on a first network requests to establish a connection to a server on a second network . In some embodiments the second network is not routable from the first network . In other embodiments the client is on a public network and the server is on a private network such as a corporate network. In one embodiment the client agent intercepts communications of the client on the first network encrypts the communications and transmits the communications via a first transport layer connection to the appliance . The appliance associates the first transport layer connection on the first network to a second transport layer connection to the server on the second network . The appliance receives the intercepted communication from the client agent decrypts the communications and transmits the communication to the server on the second network via the second transport layer connection. The second transport layer connection may be a pooled transport layer connection. As such the appliance provides an end to end secure transport layer connection for the client between the two networks .

In one embodiment the appliance hosts an intranet internet protocol or intranetIP address of the client on the virtual private network . The client has a local network identifier such as an internet protocol IP address and or host name on the first network . When connected to the second network via the appliance the appliance establishes assigns or otherwise provides an IntranetIP which is network identifier such as IP address and or host name for the client on the second network . The appliance listens for and receives on the second or private network for any communications directed towards the client using the client s established IntranetIP . In one embodiment the appliance acts as or on behalf of the client on the second private network . For example in another embodiment a vServer listens for and responds to communications to the IntranetIP of the client . In some embodiments if a computing device on the second network transmits a request the appliance processes the request as if it were the client . For example the appliance may respond to a ping to the client s IntranetIP . In another example the appliance may establish a connection such as a TCP or UDP connection with computing device on the second network requesting a connection with the client s IntranetIP .

In some embodiments the appliance provides one or more of the following acceleration techniques to communications between the client and server 1 compression 2 decompression 3 Transmission Control Protocol pooling 4 Transmission Control Protocol multiplexing 5 Transmission Control Protocol buffering and 6 caching. In one embodiment the appliance relieves servers of much of the processing load caused by repeatedly opening and closing transport layers connections to clients by opening one or more transport layer connections with each server and maintaining these connections to allow repeated data accesses by clients via the Internet. This technique is referred to herein as connection pooling .

In some embodiments in order to seamlessly splice communications from a client to a server via a pooled transport layer connection the appliance translates or multiplexes communications by modifying sequence number and acknowledgment numbers at the transport layer protocol level. This is referred to as connection multiplexing . In some embodiments no application layer protocol interaction is required. For example in the case of an in bound packet that is a packet received from a client the source network address of the packet is changed to that of an output port of appliance and the destination network address is changed to that of the intended server. In the case of an outbound packet that is one received from a server the source network address is changed from that of the server to that of an output port of appliance and the destination address is changed from that of appliance to that of the requesting client . The sequence numbers and acknowledgment numbers of the packet are also translated to sequence numbers and acknowledgement expected by the client on the appliance s transport layer connection to the client . In some embodiments the packet checksum of the transport layer protocol is recalculated to account for these translations.

In another embodiment the appliance provides switching or load balancing functionality for communications between the client and server . In some embodiments the appliance distributes traffic and directs client requests to a server based on layer 4 or application layer request data. In one embodiment although the network layer or layer 2 of the network packet identifies a destination server the appliance determines the server to distribute the network packet by application information and data carried as payload of the transport layer packet. In one embodiment the health monitoring programs of the appliance monitor the health of servers to determine the server for which to distribute a client s request. In some embodiments if the appliance detects a server is not available or has a load over a predetermined threshold the appliance can direct or distribute client requests to another server .

In some embodiments the appliance acts as a Domain Name Service DNS resolver or otherwise provides resolution of a DNS request from clients . In some embodiments the appliance intercepts a DNS request transmitted by the client . In one embodiment the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of or hosted by the appliance . In this embodiment the client transmits network communication for the domain name to the appliance . In another embodiment the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of or hosted by a second appliance . In some embodiments the appliance responds to a client s DNS request with an IP address of a server determined by the appliance .

In yet another embodiment the appliance provides application firewall functionality for communications between the client and server . In one embodiment the policy engine provides rules for detecting and blocking illegitimate requests. In some embodiments the application firewall protects against denial of service DoS attacks. In other embodiments the appliance inspects the content of intercepted requests to identify and block application based attacks. In some embodiments the rules policy engine comprises one or more application firewall or security control policies for providing protections against various classes and types of web or Internet based vulnerabilities such as one or more of the following 1 buffer overflow 2 CGI BIN parameter manipulation 3 form hidden field manipulation 4 forceful browsing 5 cookie or session poisoning 6 broken access control list ACLs or weak passwords 7 cross site scripting XSS 8 command injection 9 SQL injection 10 error triggering sensitive information leak 11 insecure use of cryptography 12 server misconfiguration 13 back doors and debug options 14 website defacement 15 platform or operating systems vulnerabilities and 16 zero day exploits. In an embodiment the application firewall provides HTML form field protection in the form of inspecting or analyzing the network communication for one or more of the following 1 required fields are returned 2 no added field allowed 3 read only and hidden field enforcement 4 drop down list and radio button field conformance and 5 form field max length enforcement. In some embodiments the application firewall ensures cookies are not modified. In other embodiments the application firewall protects against forceful browsing by enforcing legal URLs.

In still yet other embodiments the application firewall protects any confidential information contained in the network communication. The application firewall may inspect or analyze any network communication in accordance with the rules or polices of the engine to identify any confidential information in any field of the network packet. In some embodiments the application firewall identifies in the network communication one or more occurrences of a credit card number password social security number name patient code contact information and age. The encoded portion of the network communication may comprise these occurrences or the confidential information. Based on these occurrences in one embodiment the application firewall may take a policy action on the network communication such as prevent transmission of the network communication. In another embodiment the application firewall may rewrite remove or otherwise mask such identified occurrence or confidential information.

Still referring to the appliance may include a performance monitoring agent as discussed above in conjunction with . In one embodiment the appliance receives the monitoring agent from the monitoring service or monitoring server as depicted in . In some embodiments the appliance stores the monitoring agent in storage such as disk for delivery to any client or server in communication with the appliance . For example in one embodiment the appliance transmits the monitoring agent to a client upon receiving a request to establish a transport layer connection. In other embodiments the appliance transmits the monitoring agent upon establishing the transport layer connection with the client . In another embodiment the appliance transmits the monitoring agent to the client upon intercepting or detecting a request for a web page. In yet another embodiment the appliance transmits the monitoring agent to a client or a server in response to a request from the monitoring server . In one embodiment the appliance transmits the monitoring agent to a second appliance or appliance .

In other embodiments the appliance executes the monitoring agent . In one embodiment the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any application program process service task or thread executing on the appliance . For example the monitoring agent may monitor and measure performance and operation of vServers A N. In another embodiment the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any transport layer connections of the appliance . In some embodiments the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any user sessions traversing the appliance . In one embodiment the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any virtual private network connections and or sessions traversing the appliance such an SSL VPN session. In still further embodiments the monitoring agent measures and monitors the memory CPU and disk usage and performance of the appliance . In yet another embodiment the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any acceleration technique performed by the appliance such as SSL offloading connection pooling and multiplexing caching and compression. In some embodiments the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of any load balancing and or content switching performed by the appliance . In other embodiments the monitoring agent measures and monitors the performance of application firewall protection and processing performed by the appliance .

Moore s Law appears alive and well the number of transistors that can be placed on an integrated circuit continues to double every two years. However CPU speed increases have reached a plateau around 3.5 4 GHz range since 2005. CPU manufacturers may not rely on CPU speed increases to gain additional performance. Some CPU manufacturers are adding additional cores to their processors to provide additional performance. Products such as those of software and networking vendors that rely on CPUs for performance gains may improve their performance by leveraging these multi core CPUs. The software designed and constructed for a single CPU may be rewritten to take advantage of a multi threaded parallel architecture

An architecture of the appliance referred to as nCore technology allows the appliance break the single core performance barrier and to leverage the power of multi core CPUs. In the previous architecture described in connection with a single network or packet Engine is run. The nCore technology and architecture allows multiple Packet Engines to run. With a packet engine running each core the appliance architecture leverages the processing capacity of additional cores. In some embodiments this provides up to a 7 increase in performance and scalability.

Referring now to an embodiment of approaches to an implementation of an architecture is depicted. In brief overview there are multiple approaches to parallelism of leveraging multiple packet engines in a multiple core system. illustrates an appliance with a total of eight cores numbers through . There may be multiple VIPs running across these cores. For a functional parallelism approach each core may run a different function of the functionalities provided by the packet engine or appliance . In a data parallelism approach data may be paralleled or distributed across the cores based on the Network Interface Card NIC or VIP receiving the data. In another data parallelism approach data processing may be distributed across the cores by distributing data flows to each core.

In the case of the functional parallelism approach each core may be configured to run one or more functionalities of the plurality of functionalities provided by the packet engine of the appliance. For example core 1 may perform network I O processing for the appliance while core performs TCP connection management for the appliance. Likewise core may perform SSL offloading while core may perform layer 7 or application layer processing and traffic management. Each of the cores may perform the same function or different functions. Each of the cores may perform more than one function. Any of the cores may run any of the functionality or portions thereof identified and or described in conjunction with . In this the approach the work across the cores may be divided by function in either a coarse grained or fine grained manner. In some cases as illustrated in division by function may lead to different cores running at different levels of performance.

In the case of a data parallelism approach the work may be divided up and distributed based on VIPs NICs and or data flows. In one of these approaches the work of the appliance may be divided or distributed among the VIPs. For example each core may be configured to run one or more VIPs. Network traffic may be distributed to the core for each VIP handling that traffic. In another of these approaches the work of the appliance may be divided or distributed among the cores based on which NIC receives the network traffic. For example network traffic of a first NIC may be distributed to a first core while network traffic of a second NIC may be distributed to a second core. In some cases a core may process data from multiple cores. While distributing work across cores based on VIPs or NICs may have a level of independency as illustrated in in some embodiments this may lead to unbalanced use of cores.

In another of these approaches the work may be divided or distributed among cores based on data flows. For example network traffic between a client and a server traversing the appliance may be distributed to and processed by one core of the plurality of cores. In some cases the core initially establishing the session or connection may be the core for which network traffic for that session or connection is distributed. In some embodiments the data flow is based on any unit or portion of network traffic such as a transaction a request response communication or traffic originating from an application on a client. In this manner and in some embodiments data flows between clients and servers traversing the appliance may be distributed in a more balanced manner than the other approached.

Referring now to embodiments of a multi core system running a plurality of packet engines is depicted. In brief overview of a packet engine may operate on each of the plurality of cores such as cores thru of a multi core appliance . A flow distributor may distribute the network traffic across cores in accordance with any of the parallelism data or functional described above. As illustrated in an embodiment of the flow distributor distributes network traffic across cores based on a data flow approach. The flow distributor provides an affinity of packets of the same data flow to the same core. For example the flow distributor routes packets of data flows initiated by a care to that core. The flow distributor maintains the order of intra flow packets routed to a core.

The packet engine may comprise any or all portions of the appliance described in connection with . In some embodiments the packet engine includes the packet engine of and may include any one or more of the following in any combination from network stack cache manager policy engine compression engine encryption engine GUI CLI shell services and monitoring programs . The packet engine may comprise any one or more vServers A N. The packet engine may include any one or more of the functionalities in any combination of SSL VPN Intranet UP Switching DNS Acceleration App FW and monitoring agent described in connection with . As such the packet engine may provide any of the following functionalities illustrated in a TCP stack load balancing SSL offloading and processing content switching policy evaluation caching compression application firewall XML processing and acceleration and SSL VPN connectivity.

The flow distributor may comprise any combination of software and hardware to distribute route control and or manage which cores process which network packets. The flow distributor may comprise any form of executable instructions such as an application program library process service task or script. The flow distributor may run on one core. some cores or all the cores. In some embodiments the flow distributor runs on a first core of the plurality of cores. For example one of the cores may be designed a control or master core and the flow distributor operates on this core. In other embodiments the flow distributor runs on each of the cores. In some of these embodiments the flow distributors may communicate or interface to each other to distribute network packets.

The flow distributor may interface to or communicate with the Receive Side Scaling RSS network technology and or driver. Receive side scaling RSS is a network driver technology that enables the distribution of network receive processing across multiple CPUs in multiprocessor systems or multiple cores in multiple core systems. In some embodiments the flow distributor runs on hardware with the receive side scaler RSS or as part of the RSS. The flow distributor may reroute the network traffic distributed by the RSS to different cores based on any of the functional or data flow parallelism approaches identified herein. For example based on the RSS algorithms the RSS may distribute one or more network packets to a first core which should be distributed to a second core based on data flow parallelism. The flow distributor may receive the distribution of the network packet from the RSS for the first core and distribute the network packet to the second core which is assigned the data flow.

Referring now to an embodiment of implementation of a multi core architecture is depicted. In brief overview the multiple cores of a multi core system may communicate or interface via any type and form of bus such as a memory bus. Any of the cores may communicate with another core by sending and receiving messages via the bus. Each of the cores may have separate address spaces or may share portions of an address space. The flow distributor may use any type and form of statistical or probabilistic algorithms or decision making to balance the flows across the cores. The hardware of the appliance may be designed and constructed to support sequential operations across the NICs and or cores.

A core may have or use memory that is allocated or assigned for use to that core. The memory may be considered private or local memory of that core and only accessible by that core. A core may have or use memory that is shared or assigned to multiple cores. The memory may be considered public or shared memory that is accessible by more than one core. A core may use any combination of private and public memory. With separate address spaces for each core some level of coordination is eliminated from the case of using the same address space. With a separate address space a core can perform work on information and data in the core s own address space without worrying about conflicts with other cores. Each packet engine may have a separate memory pool for TCP and or SSL connections.

A core may communicate with another core using any type and form of interprocess communication or mechanism. In one embodiment the cores communicate using messages communicated over the bus connecting the cores. This may be referred to as Core to Core Messaging CCM . In some embodiments the core may communicate using shared memory. In some embodiments the cores may use queues to store and retrieve messages to other cores. In other embodiments the cores may communicate using an API to interface to an address space object data structure or other memory location of another core.

Referring now to another embodiment of an environment of a multi core system is depicted. In brief overview one core of the plurality of cores of the multi core system may be a designated management core. In this example of a core is designated as the management core. The management core may include a configuration service a configuration storage and a configuration persistence module. The management core may include a configuration replicator and a statistical log aggregator. The management core may also include a High Availability HA propagation and synchronization module.

Any one of the cores may be designated or configured to be the management core. This designated core may be considered a primary master or configuration core. In some embodiments the first core is the management core. In other embodiments via configuration of the appliance any core may be the management core. In some embodiments multiple cores may be considered the management core. In some embodiments one core is the management core and another core is a backup or failover management core. Any of the user interfaces e.g. GUI CLI of and configuration tools may be operated on and run by the management core.

The configuration service may comprise any type and form of executable instructions and interface for configuring any of the cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for specifying the type of parallelism to use. The configuration service may provide an interface for specifying a unit of network traffic to consider a data flow for distributing data flows to cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for specifying or configuring the number of cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for specifying a type of packet engine to run on each of the cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for configuring each of the packet engines to run on each of the cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for identifying or configuring the functionality for each of the packet engines to run on each of the cores. The configuration service may provide an interface for configuring the flow distributor such as specifying or configuring distribution algorithms. The configuration service may provide an interface for configuring or specifying any policies for directing controlling or managing the operation of the appliance or any cores thereof.

The configuration service may store any configuration data or information into a configuration storage. The configuration storage may include any type and form of storage and or memory such as those described in connection with . The configuration for each core may be stored separately or together in the configuration storage. There may be a portion of the configuration applicable to all cores such as a global or general configuration and a portion of the configuration applicable specific to any one core or a predetermined cored such as specific core configuration. The configuration may be stored in any type of format. The configuration may be stored to a database. The configuration data such as via a file may be uploaded to another device via a network or downloaded from another device to the appliance.

The configuration replicator may comprise any type and form of executable instructions for replicating the configuration or any portion thereof to one or more cores. The configuration replicator may replicate configuration stored in the configuration storage or otherwise stored in memory of the configuration service. In some embodiments the configuration replicator replicates a configuration to each core by executing one or more command line or command scripts to each packet engine. In other embodiments the configuration replicator replicates a configuration to each core by executing one or more API calls to each packet engine. In other embodiments the configuration replicator obtains a current configuration of each core by executing API calls or command line commands. The configuration replicator may compare the current configuration of the core to a desired stored or updated configuration. The configuration replicator may generate and execute a set of configuration commands representing a difference between the configurations and or to update the current configuration of the core.

The configuration persistence service or module may comprise any type and form of executable instructions to persist the configuration in the configuration storage and or across cores and or appliances. The configuration persistence may make sure that any core has a current desired configuration. The configuration persistence may also provide updates to the configuration that may be communicated to external devices such as another appliance. For example in the case of high availability a second appliance may be updated with configuration changes from the configuration persistence service. This will keep the backup or secondary appliance with a configuration that is persistent across appliances and or cores.

The HA Propagation and synchronization module may comprise any type and form of executable instructions for propagating and synchronization configuration and operational data to one or more other appliances . The HA propagation and synchronization module may propagate and or synchronize any SSL session and or TCP connection information such as state and other information to another appliance for example to enable that appliance re establish or regenerate these sessions and or connections. The HA propagation and synchronization module may propagate and or synchronize any configuration or portions therefore to another appliance.

The log stat aggregator may comprise any type and form of executable instructions for aggregating any logged operational and or performance information and data from each of the cores. The log stat aggregator may combine the operational and or performance information and data from each of the cores to present a system view of the operations and or performance of the appliance . The log stat aggregator may use any type and form of interface for receiving and or obtaining the logs from each of the cores. In some embodiments the log stat aggregator interfaces with each of the cores via a shared memory interface. In some embodiments the log stat aggregator interfaces with each of the cores via messaging such as core to core messaging. In some embodiments the log stat aggregator interfaces with each of the cores via a queue. The log stat aggregator may receive or obtain a core s log on a predetermined schedule or frequency. The log stat aggregator may receive or obtain a core s log on demand ad hoc or as requested.

Referring now to embodiments of an architecture of the multi core system is depicted. illustrate the use of one core as a control plane for the multi core system. In brief overview of a first core such as core may be configured or designated as providing control over the other cores. The multi core system may have 32 GB of memory that may be allocated among the cores in any manner. illustrates an embodiment in which each core gets 4 GB or an even allocation of the 32 GB memory. In other embodiments each of the cores may be allocated a different size memory. For example core or other control plane core may be allocated a greater amount of memory such as for dedicated management functionality of the multi core system.

Referring to any portion of the memory of each of the cores may be allocated to or used for a global cache that is shared by the cores. In brief overview a predetermined percentage or predetermined amount of each of the memory of each core may be used for the global cache. For example 50 of each memory of each code may be dedicated or allocated to the shared global cache. That is in the illustrated embodiment 2 GB of each core excluding the control plane core or core may be used to form a 28 GB shared global cache. The configuration of the control plane such as via the configuration services may determine the amount of memory used for the shared global cache. In some embodiments each core may provide a different amount of memory for use by the global cache. In other embodiments any one core may not provide any memory or use the global cache. In some embodiments any of the cores may also have a local cache in memory not allocated to the global shared memory. Each of the cores may store any portion of network traffic to the global shared cache. Each of the cores may check the cache for any content to use in a request or response. Any of the cores may obtain content from the global shared cache to use in a data flow request or response.

The control plane of the multi core system of may be the designation and configuration of a core as the dedicated management core or as a master core. This control plane core may provide control management and coordination of operation and functionality the plurality of cores in the multi core system. This control plane core may provide control management and coordination of allocation and use of memory of the system among the plurality of cores in the multi core system including initialization and configuration of the same. In some embodiments the control plane includes the flow distributor for controlling the assignment of data flows to cores and the distribution of network packets to cores based on data flows. In some embodiments the control plane core runs a packet engine and in other embodiments the control plane core is dedicated to management and control of the other cores of the system.

Referring now to embodiments of a method for distributing network traffic across cores using a data flow scheme are depicted. In brief overview at step a multi core device such as appliance receives different flows of network traffic between clients and servers. At step a flow distributor of the multi core device assigns each of the flows of network traffic to a core ad at step the flow distributor distributes each network packet received for a corresponding flow to the core assigned to that flow of network traffic. At step the flow receives a packet for a flow of network traffic and determines which core to distribute the packet.

In further details at step the multi core device may receive network packets via any one or more types of network interfaces such as a plurality of network interface cards of an appliance . The multi core device may receive flows of network traffic identifies by any type of unit of network traffic. A flow of network traffic may be the network traffic communicated between two end points such as a client and a server or between a front end component of an application and a back end component of an application. A flow of network traffic may be based on one or more application level transactions between the same endpoints. Any one or more packets for flows of network traffic may be received on the same or different network interface. For example a first flow of network traffic may have network packets receives across a plurality of different network interfaces.

The multi core device may have a receive side scalar that distributes network packets based on an algorithm that is agnostic to the flow based scheme desired by the flow distributor. The flow distributor may desire a data parallelism type scheme while the RSS may be using a hash bucket based Toefl algorithm that is on a packet by packet basis. As such the RSS may distribute network packets from the same flow to any number of different cores. The flow distributor may operate in replace of in conjunction with or in communication with an RSS.

In further details to step the flow distributor may identify a flow of network traffic and assign the flow to a core or packet engine running on the core. The flow distributor may identify flows of network traffic based on tuple information or any combination or IP address and port information source and or destination of the network packet. The flow distributor may identify flows of network traffic by using any application information stored in or carried by the content of the payload of the network packet. For example the flow distributor may use any headers and or fields of the application content to identify a flow for the network packet. The flow distributor may use any combination of packet header and fields from any plurality of protocol layers.

For each flow of network traffic the flow distributor may assign each flow to a different core or a same core based on more or less an even distribution or load balancing of data flows across cores or packet engines running on cores. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns a flow of network traffic to the core which executes the packet processing engine which established a transport layer connection between the client and the server over which the packet is communicated. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns a flow of network traffic to the core which executes the packet processing engine which established an application session between the client and the server over which the packet is communicated. In some embodiments the flow distributor assigns a flow of network traffic to the core which executes the packet processing engine which established an SSL session between the client and the server over which the packet is communicated. In some embodiments the flow distributor identifies and assigns flows of network traffic to cores and or packet engines based on request and response pairings. In some embodiments the flow distributor identifies and assigns flows of network traffic based on a series of request and responses over the same connection or session or between the same end points.

At step as network packets are received the flow distributor distributes the network packet to the core assigned for the flow for that network packet. The flow distributor may receive intra flow network packets for example one packet of a first flow followed by another packet of a second flow. Each packet as received by the flow distributor is assigned to the core or packet engine assigned to process the network packets for that flow. In some embodiments the flow distributor forwards the network packet to the core upon receipt by the flow distributor for example streams the network packet as a flow to each code. In some embodiments the flow distributor batches a plurality of network packets of the same flow and forwards the batch to the assigned core. In some embodiments the flow distributor batches a plurality of network packets from different flows that are assigned to the same core and forwards the batched network packets to the assigned core.

At step in some embodiments the flow distributor may redistribute packets to different cores than assigned or distributed via the RSS. For example the flow distributor may receive a packet for one core assigned by the RSS and based on the flow based scheme reassigns or redistributes the packet to the core for which the other packets of the flow have been distributed to by the flow distributor. In some embodiments the flow distributor intercepts the distribution of the packet by the RSS. In some embodiments the flow distributor is the recipient of the distribution by the RSS. For example the flow distributor may be inline with the RSS to core s communication path. In another example the flow distributor may run on the core and receive the network packet distributed to that core by the RSS. In some embodiments the flow distributor runs with or as part of the RSS. In some embodiments a core packet engine or flow distributor redirects a network packet received on one core to another core that has the flow e.g. connection session or associated transaction . For example a receiving core or packet engine may not have any context for the flow and redirects forwards or send the network packet to the appropriate core or packet engine handling that flow of network traffic.

