---

title: Reduction of radar cross-section of a wind turbine
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to formation of a wind turbine blade having a reduced radar signature in comparison with a turbine blade fabricated using conventional techniques. Various techniques and materials are presented to facilitate reduction in radar signature of a wind turbine blade, where such techniques and materials are amenable for incorporation into existing manufacturing techniques without degradation in mechanical or physical performance of the blade or major alteration of the blade profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09404371&OS=09404371&RS=09404371
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09404371
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Renewable energy systems e.g. a wind farm are often located in remote areas to take advantage of uninterrupted weather systems for example no buildings or other structures impeding wind flow as well as being located to minimize negative viewpoints attitudes akin to not in my backyard . Similarly systems monitoring the electromagnetic spectrum e.g. a radar based system are also often located in remote sparsely populated regions.

Further with regard to a wind based energy system higher placement of the turbine blades above the earth s surface can lead to enhanced capturing of wind energy as turbulent effects of the wind flowing over the earth s surface e.g. over the landscape over trees etc. are reduced. Hence a turbine nacelle and wind turbine blades are oftentimes located on a tall supporting structure to facilitate placement of the turbine blades in airflow having reduced turbulence.

Unfortunately location of a system utilizing electromagnetic radiation proximate to a wind turbine can result in disruption of the electromagnetic radiation signaling. For example as shown in a radar station is co located with one or more wind turbines where each wind turbine can comprise a blade s a nacelle and a support tower . Radar system is transmitting electromagnetic waves to facilitate detection of moving objects such as an aircraft . However motion of blade s can engender a Doppler effect in reflected waves which are generated by reflection of the electromagnetic waves by blade s . Reflected waves can be of varying frequency e.g. wavelengths x and y based on the frequency of rotation of blade s accompanied by continual re orientation of blade s to the wind direction. Essentially the Doppler effect is created by motion of blade s towards radar system and motion away from radar system . Owing to such Doppler effect it can be difficult for radar system to accurately differentiate between a static object and a moving object. Similarly a Doppler based system that monitors weather may erroneously determine a weather system based on Doppler effect being generated by one or more wind turbines e.g. the one or more wind turbines in a wind farm.

To overcome such deleterious effects it is possible to upgrade the sensing operational logic of a radar system to facilitate improved determination of object motion however such system upgrade can be costly impractical etc. Alternatively the profile cross section of a turbine blade s can be modified to minimize its effective radar cross section RCS however such modification is limited by the profile required to capture the wind flowing over the blade surface to generate wind energy. Further the ability to modify components comprising a turbine blade are somewhat limited by how amenable an existing fabrication technique utilized in the manufacture of a turbine is with regard to incorporation of new or modified materials. For example ability to incorporate a novel material into a turbine blade using conventional fiber lay up techniques such as wet layup resin transfer molding RTM vacuum assisted resin transfer molding VARTM pre impregnated pre preg etc.

Hence while approaches are available to minimize deleterious effects resulting from co location of systems utilizing electromagnetic radiation signaling and renewable energy systems such approaches can be limited in their effectiveness in reducing radar signature.

The various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein relate to formation of a wind turbine blade having a reduced radar signature in comparison with a turbine blade fabricated using conventional techniques. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a wind turbine blade can include a substrate and a conductive layer formed on the substrate. Inclusion of the conductive layer in the wind turbine blade can cause a reduction in radar signature of the wind turbine blade to be reduced by at least 20 dB in comparison with a wind turbine blade with substantially similar structure without the conductive layer.

A further exemplary non limiting embodiment that comprises a method for reducing a radar cross section RCS of a wind turbine blade is presented. The wind turbine blade can be fabricated to include a core layer and a skin layer. Moreover a fabric structure can be incorporated between the core layer and the skin layer. Further the fabric structure comprises a woven or stitched layer and a conductive layer formed on a surface of the woven or stitched layer. Inclusion of the conductive layer in the wind turbine blade can cause the RCS of the wind turbine blade to be reduced by at least 20 dB in comparison with a wind turbine blade not including the conductive layer.

In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a wind turbine is presented comprising a wind turbine blade where the wind turbine blade comprises a first core layer a second core layer and a conductive structure. The conductive structure comprises a woven glass fiber layer and a conductive layer. Moreover the conductive layer is made of polypyrrole and the conductive layer is formed on the woven glass fiber layer. Inclusion of the conductive layer in the wind turbine blade can cause a radar signature of the wind turbine blade to be reduced by at least 20 dB in comparison with a wind turbine blade with substantially similar structure without the conductive layer. Further the conductive structure is located between the first core layer and the second core layer.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein relate to formation of a wind turbine blade having a reduced radar signature in comparison with a turbine blade fabricated using conventional techniques. Various techniques and materials are presented to facilitate reduction in radar signature of a wind turbine blade hereinafter blade where such techniques and materials are amenable for incorporation into existing manufacturing techniques without degradation in mechanical physical performance of the blade or major alteration of the blade profile. The various exemplary non limiting embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

It is to be appreciated that while the term radar signature reduction is utilized herein other corresponding terms can be equally applied such as reduction in radar cross section RCS to convey the concept of a wind turbine having a reduction in visibility or effect upon a system utilizing electromagnetic signaling e.g. a radar system weather monitoring system etc. .

The following provides an overview of blade construction and manufacture. It is to be appreciated that the overview merely provides context for understanding of the various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein and hence the overview is not exhaustive and while not disclosed the various concepts presented herein are applicable to other manufacturing techniques and blade constructions. illustrates a cross section through a blade e.g. blade of . Blade can be constructed from such materials as glass fiber or carbon fiber reinforced polymers FRP e.g. polyester vinylester epoxy etc. along with foam core or balsa core materials. As illustrated in blade can be comprised of a load bearing I type or box type beam structure commonly referred to as a spar enclosed by two aerodynamic shells . The spar can be the main load bearing structure in the blade with respect to aerodynamic and gravitational bending. The spar can comprise of top and bottom flanges or spar caps which are made mostly of uni directional fiber running in the spanwise direction of the blade often covered on either side by bi directional tri directional or quad directional fibers connected by one or more shear webs which are constructed of bidirectional fibers. Adjacent to the spar caps are panel regions the panel regions can be sandwich structures comprised of bi directional tri directional or quad directional fibers on either side of a foam core or balsa core. The panel regions provide torsional stiffness to the blade and are reinforced with core materials to prevent panel buckling.

A number of techniques can be utilized to manufacture a blade including wet layup RTM VARTM pre preg etc. Wet layup can involve pre wetted layers of composite material being laid down into the blade mold and hand rolled to remove excess resin. Further with resin infusion fabrics e.g. glass carbon are placed into a mold and wet resin is thereafter injected into such mold. In a RTM process the resin is typically pressurized and forced into a cavity which is under vacuum. In a VARTM process dry fabrics are laid in the blade mold followed by resin being infused into the fibers through vacuum. Pre preg construction involves laying down layers of fiber which contain resin in a partially cured state. In such processes the thickness of individual plies is variable. Fiber resin layers are placed moving from root to tip reducing the total laminate thickness as the loads on the blade decrease outboard hence a root section might have a thickness of 10 15 cm while tips may be 1 cm or less.

Once the fiber and resin layers have been placed in the mold the structures are then cured either at room or elevated temperatures. The separate pieces comprising a blade e.g. skins shear web spar etc. are then joined by any suitable means e.g. mechanical attachment by adhesive etc. Numerous variations to the described approaches presented herein exist depending upon such considerations as material composition layup final mechanical properties required from a blade component etc. and can include the use of pre cured root and spar cap assemblies that are infused with the skins a mold system that allows for the entire blade to be infused at once eliminating the need for adhesive bonding etc.

Inclusion of the conductive layer and or the conductive layer in a wind turbine blade can cause a radar signature of the wind turbine blade to be greatly reduced in comparison with a blade constructed with substantially similar structure e.g. shape blade length thickness etc. without the conductive layer e.g. without conductive layer s or where a reduction in RCS of 20 dB can be readily achieved in comparison with an RCS of a conventional blade e.g. an aluminum blade or a composite blade not including a conductive layer for a given frequency range. It is noted that a 20 dB reduction is equivalent to reduction by a factor of 100. As described in greater detail herein the inclusion of the conductive layer and or the conductive layer in the wind turbine blade can cause the radar signature of the 60 m wind turbine blade to be less than 32 dB over a normalized frequency range of about 1.4 to 1.625 a normalized frequency range of about 4.0 to 4.25 a normalized frequency range of about 1.0 to 2.7 etc.

In an example conductive layer and can be formed on the substrate by spraying the conductive material to coat one or both side surfaces of the substrate . In another example the conductive layer can be formed on the substrate by passing the substrate layer through a bath comprising conductive material e.g. in liquid form thus the conductive material can be deposited on both side surfaces of the substrate to form conductive layers and . Conductive layers and can comprise of any suitable material as required to achieve a desired reduction in radar signature etc. where such suitable material can comprise of conductive polymer e.g. polypyrrole polyaniline conductive carbon metallic polymeric ceramic or combination thereof. The thickness of conductive layer can be of any suitable dimension to facilitate effective reduction in RCS adhesion bonding to underlying substrate etc. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment conductive layer and comprising a conductive polymer carbon etc. can have a thickness of about 2 20 m and a layer comprising a metal deposition to have a thickness of about 2 20 nm.

Depending upon the formation of conductive layer e.g. spraying bath deposition etc. a precursor comprising elements forming the conductive layer can also further comprise a binder etc. as required to facilitate adhesion mechanical keying of conductive layer to underlying substrate . For example where substrate is a woven fabric e.g. comprising fiber glass carbon fiber etc. ingress of material comprising conductive layer between the fibers comprising the woven fabric may be sufficient to facilitate attachment of conductive layer to the woven fabric. In another aspect a binder may be required to facilitate attachment of the conductive material comprising conductive layer to the woven fabric. In another aspect mechanical keying of the conductive material to the woven fabric may be improved by pre treating the fibers comprising the woven fabric for example to roughen the surface of the fibers to improve mechanical keying coat the fibers in a binder or similar material etch the fibers to improve mechanical keying etc. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment the thickness of the fibers comprising substrate can be of any dimension. For example glass fibers e.g. s glass e glass can be of any suitable diameter by way of illustration diameters such as approx. 250 m approx. 10 mils. approx. 685 m approx. 27 mils. and 1370 m approx. 54 mils. are commonly used in FRP constructions etc. In another example a common diameter for astroquartz fibers is approx. 75 m approx. 3 mils. .

A consideration for controlling reducing the radar signature of a component is the parameter ohms per square which relates to the conductivity of a material for a given area and can be a function of a material s ability to absorb electromagnetic energy making the material a suitable candidate as a radar absorbing material. Hence in an aspect the radar signature of a component can be a function of the ohms per square sq. for a given material layer layered construction etc. where the sq. can be a desired target value and the actual thicknesses of a particular layer s e.g. the conductive layer the conductive layer are a function of the target sq. Further sq. can also be a function of a conductivity of a particular material whereby a first material having a high conductivity is likely to be the form of a thinner sheet than a sheet formed from second material having a lower relative conductivity. For example an aluminum layer may have values in the range of 100 500 sq. where owing to the conductivity of aluminum a layer of 3 nanometers may be required to achieve a value of 200 sq.

Further a laminate structure can be formed as illustrated in where the fabric structure comprising the substrate and one or two conductive layers and or can be laid on a backing layer . Backing layer can provide an electrical short used for radio frequency RF performance of fabric structure where backing layer is also known as a shorting layer. Backing layer can comprise of any suitable material for example a metallic layer such as aluminum carbon fiber polymer a spray on metallic coating etc. with the structure of backing layer being in the form of a contiguous flat sheet a mesh etc. Further in an exemplary embodiment backing layer can be conductive to assist in blade lightning protection.

It is to be appreciated that any suitable material can be utilized with the various embodiments presented herein. For example while the various embodiments relate to a fabric e.g. glass fiber acting as substrate on to which conductive layer and or conductive layer is applied the various embodiments are not so limited and other materials and structures can be used. For example illustrates a structure where a woven fabric can be formed comprising base material fiber s individually coated with a conductive layer material resulting in a fabric having a level of conductivity which can be utilized to reduce radar signature. Further the woven fabric structure can comprise of a combination of coated and uncoated fibers of any given ratio e.g. 80 coated fibers and 20 uncoated fibers 50 coated fibers and 50 uncoated fibers 40 coated fibers and 60 uncoated fibers etc. Conductive layer can comprise of any suitable material such as a metal deposition layer a conductive polymer layer a carbon layer such as deposited carbon nanostructure carbon and the like.

A range of testing has been conducted in view of the various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein. The tests included modeling of proposed structures to achieve a desired level of reduction in RCS whereby a design structure was generated and various computer modeling and analyses were conducted to assess the proposed design. Based on the modeling and design results a test plate s was fabricated and tested. Results are compared with the modeled values and based thereon further modeling and design was performed to generate another test plate etc. The measured results agreed well with the predictive modeling particularly when compensated for fabrication process variation s .

To provide context of the problem regarding attempting to reduce the RCS of one or more wind turbines with regard to affecting electromagnetic signaling of a radar based system the median RCS of a BOEING 737 aircraft at nose aspect at the test frequency is approx. 10 dBsm and a BOEING 747 is approx. 18 dBsm. For the test data provided below the achieved reduction in dB as shown graphically is referenced against a blade which does not comprise a conductive layer e.g. comprising polypyrrole where such a blade can be an aluminum blade a composite blade etc. illustrate determination of the reference value where a computed static RCS of a turbine is plotted as a function of azimuth when the elevation angle is zero. The radar frequency is 2.8 GHz and the rotor is orientated with one blade in the vertical position with the rotor static as illustrated in . illustrates the response for two linear polarizations HH indicates that the electric field vector both transmit and receive is both normal to the vector locating the radar and lies in a plane containing both the axis of rotation and the vector locating the radar while VV indicates that the electric field vectors are normal to that plane. When elevation is zero HH indicates that the electric field vectors lie in the horizon plane circumflex over x plane in and VV indicates that the electric field vectors are parallel to circumflex over z in . Each polar plot and shows the RCS response for the indicated polarization when the radar is located at a set of points on a circle around the turbine while it remains at zero elevation. The two rectangular plots and show the variation in RCS in a small region near the azimuth directions of 0 and 180 with both polarizations plotted on the same axes. Because of the large extent of the rotor in the plane measured in wavelengths not only does the largest RCS occur in these two regions but the RCS changes very rapidly with azimuth the amplitude changes by several decibels with as little as 0.02 change in azimuth. The variation with azimuth is not as extreme near 90 and 270 . The variation between the responses of the two linear polarizations is minimal. As shown in a peak RCS of 52 dBsm for a 60 m blade rotor set at an azimuth of 1 was measured where a smaller dBsm would have a lower peak RCS and further RCS decreases as blade length decreases. Tests performed indicate that an aluminum blade and a composite blade e.g. formed without a conductive layer had similar RCS values and 52 dBsm is considered to be a fair base value for both aluminum and composite rotors. Based on the forgoing the 0 dB value on the Reduction dB axes of graph of and graph of below is actually 52 dBsm with RCS measurements being determined from this value.

For modeling purposes a plurality of designs e.g. different approaches for structures and were generated. Further to facilitate derivation of RCS reduction for a variety of blade lengths e.g. 9 m 15 m 30 m 45 m 60 m etc. a commonly found section thickness for each blade length is presented. For example for a blade a section thickness of 0.25 is a typical average section thickness found for a blade of this length while for a 60 m blade a section thickness of 2.0 is a typical average thickness found for a blade of 60 m length. Accordingly a modeling algorithm was constructed to facilitate calculation of reduction in RCS for a particular section thickness for a particular operating frequency. Based on the correlation of section thickness with blade length it is possible to derive an RCS reduction for a given blade length. To confirm accuracy of the modeling algorithm a series of tests were conducted to confirm a predicted RCS reduction was achieved with physical structures as described further below.

Four frequency bands were utilized in the modeling L band S band C band and X band and for each respective frequency reduction in RCS was determined for structure thicknesses of 0.25 0.5 1.0 1.5 and 2 . As shown in Table 1 and presented graphically in a minimum reduction of 20 dB can be achieved for each of the L band S band C band and X band. For example with a C band operating frequency a RCS reduction of 20 dB was derived for a section thickness of at least approx. 0.28 . Alternatively with an S band operating frequency a RCS reduction of 20 dB was derived for section thickness of at least approx. 0.5 . Further with a X band operating frequency a RCS reduction of 20 dB was achieved for all section thicknesses. However with a L band operating frequency a RCS reduction of 20 dB was only achieved for a section thicknesses of at least approx. 1.25 or greater.

Further a section thickness of about 0.5 is able to achieve a minimum reduction of 20 dB for S band C band and X band operating frequencies however when operating at the L band frequency a section thickness of about 0.5 only results in a reduction of 5 dB in RCS. When operating at the L band frequency a section thickness of about 1.3 is required to achieve a minimum RCS reduction of 20 dB.

To facilitate confirmation of the derived values presented in and Table 1 various designs e.g. different approaches for structures and were pursued were fabricated as 18 square plates utilizing a standard VARTM process. The 18 plate size approximately 3 to 6 wavelengths in the frequency band of interest was chosen to minimize diffraction from plate edges e.g. edge effects . RCS reduction for measurements is referenced to a metal plate e.g. aluminum of the same size . Plate thicknesses of approx. 1.0 1.2 were chosen as this thickness is a thickness found across a significant portion of constructed 30 60 meter blades. Further the plates were designed to operate in L band S band C band and X band frequencies where S band and C band frequencies are typically utilized by airport surveillance and weather monitoring radar s .

For testing a plate is mounted on a low RCS foam mast radar signaling conducted in a closed test environment i.e. a compact range at Sandia Facility for Antenna and RCS Measurement FARM and RCS measurements determination conducted. The measurement radar was calibrated using a 20 inch diameter metal sphere s where the peak response from the sphere s was 50 60 dB above background clutter. To facilitate determination of reduction in RCS the measured values were compared with those achieved for reference plates constructed from aluminum where the reference plates were determined to have a peak RCS of 7 13 dBsm 2 dB over S band as previously mentioned.

Turning to graphically illustrated is a comparison between modeled values and as measured values for structure in accordance with various exemplary non limiting embodiments as presented herein. For modeling structure comprises a core comprising a first core layer and a second core layer with a conductive layer e.g. similar to structures or incorporated therebetween. For the modeled structure conductive layer has a modeled resistance of 90 sq. and positioned with respect to skin layer at distance T of 495 mil. and skin layer at a distance of T of 440 mil. where the overall core thickness of first core layer second core layer and conductive layer 0.9445 . A shorting layer is incorporated in structure where shorting layer can comprise of aluminum or other suitable conductor as previously mentioned. Skin layers and have a thickness of 0.110 with the overall thickness of structure being 1.1645 .

The as built measured structure comprises a conductive layer with a resistance of 110 sq. and positioned with respect to skin layer at distance T of 481 mil. and skin layer at a distance of T of 401 mil. where the overall core thickness of first core layer second core layer and conductive layer 0.882 . Shorting layer is incorporated in structure skin layers and have a thickness of 0.110 with the overall thickness of the as built measured structure being 1.102 .

Core layers and and skin layers and can comprise of any suitable material for example bi axial glass fiber fabric often used for skin layers and uni axial glass fiber fabric often used for core layers carbon fiber weave etc.

As shown in graph agreement was achieved between the modeled design values and the measured tested values with discernible reductions in RCS at A approx. normalized frequency f 1.5 with a reduction of approx. 25 dB and at B normalized f 4.1 with a reduction of about 20 dB. Hence with a reference value of 52 dBsm as described previously a 25 dB reduction at frequency A is approx. 27 dB measured and at frequency B is approx. 32 dB measured. An RCS reduction of at least 20 dB can be seen to occur at two frequency ranges of about 1.4 to 1.625 and 4.0 to 4.25. As used herein the terms about and approx. are intended to encompass a variation of plus or minus 10 percent of a specified value.

Owing to the reductions in RCS at frequencies A and B structure can be considered to perform as a dual band design whereby a reduction in RCS is achieved at a plurality of frequencies e.g. f 1.5 and f 4.1. It is likely the effects result from frequency repeatability such as the frequency at B has a functional relationship with the frequency at A. As shown graphically in for clarity RCS reduction is presented in three forms design RCS reduction predicted by electromagnetic models as built RCS reduction predicted by updated models and measured.

Hence owing to the agreement between the respective design as built and modeled plate values comprising graphs and by extension a strong assumption can be made that the modeled values presented in Table 1 are values comparable with likely measured values.

It is to be understood that the various embodiments presented herein pertain to any blade structure determined to be suitable for incorporation of a layer to effect reduction in RCS. For example while structures and illustrate a conductive layer respective layers and being sandwiched between core layers respective layers incorporation of the conductive layer is not so limited. As shown in structure illustrates a conductive layer being located between a single core layer and a skin layer where core layer has a thickness T. Further a second skin layer is attached to a shorting layer . illustrates structure comprising a conductive layer sandwiched between first core layer having thickness T and second core layer having thickness T where core layers and can comprise of any suitable material. For example first core layer can comprise glass fiber carbon fiber foam core etc. while second core layer can comprise of a similar material to first core layer or a disparate material. Core layers and can be combined with skin layers and and an associated shorting layer .

At based upon the determined one or more signaling frequencies for which minimization of RCS is desired a blade can be constructed comprising one or more portions.

At during fabrication of a structural portion at least one conductive layer e.g. substrate and conductive layers can be incorporated into the structural portion. As described in the various exemplary embodiments presented herein a conductive layer can comprise of a substrate that can be a woven fabric stitched fabric short strand fabric etc. such as glass fiber carbon fiber etc. One or both surfaces of the substrate can be coated with a conductive material e.g. conductive layer and or conductive layer . Hence by incorporating the conductive layer the conductive layer can act to absorb the electromagnetic waves rather than reflect electromagnetic waves e.g. as with an aluminum blade or composite blade which does not include a conductive layer . Accordingly inclusion of the conductive layer can reduce the RCS of the blade and wind turbine structure to facilitate improved operation of the co located radar system. As described herein the conductive layer can be incorporated into the structural portion without having to modify the fabrication process e.g. pre preg lay up RTM VARTM etc. . The substrate and conductive layer form is amenable for incorporation into conventional reinforced polymer fabrication processes. The conductive layer can be incorporated into the structural portion in any suitable configuration in accordance with the physical structural and mechanical properties required for the structural portion. For example as shown in the conductive layer e.g. or can be sandwiched between core layers e.g. which are further sandwiched between skins layers e.g. as required for the particular structural portion. Further a shorting layer e.g. layer can be associated with the various core and skin layers to facilitate any of function of the conductive layer lightning protection for the blade etc.

At the blade can be incorporated into a wind turbine system co located with a system utilizing electromagnetic signaling with resulting reduction in RCS of the turbine blade as sensed by the electromagnetic signaling system.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

