---

title: Automated audience recognition for targeted mixed-group content
abstract: Non-intrusive user identification to provide personalized media content is provided. Using one or more sensors, a user or a combination of users may be identified. If the user or combination of users is known, user information may be retrieved and rules may be applied for providing content personalized to the identified person or group of people. User behavior may be monitored and changes in the audience composition may be monitored so that personalized content may be adjusted accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363155&OS=09363155&RS=09363155
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09363155
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130522
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 783 992 titled Automated Audience Recognition for Targeted Mixed Group Content filed Mar. 14 2013 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Oftentimes television viewing and many other forms of content consumption in the home or other places are communal activities. On the other hand most personalization and recommendation systems designed for video are designed for individual users. For example if a household has a set top box that allows individual user login for personalized recommendations typically only one user is allowed to be signed in at a given time regardless of which other family members may happen to be in the room watching TV. If an adult is logged in but a child is also in the room the adult s viewership records could have children s programming associated with it which may later produce incorrect recommendations for children s programming when the adult is watching TV alone. Similarly if the adult is logged in and a child is in the room the recommendation platform may suggest more mature content that may be inappropriate for a younger viewer.

A problem may also exist where if a user logs in circumstances may change while personalized content is being provided to the user. For example the user may leave the room and another user may watch video content. Current systems may not be able to determine that the viewing audience has changed and may continue to provide recommended and or personalized content for the first user.

Without a simplistic seamless identification system users may be highly unlikely to manually identify themselves to a system prior to consuming content. Presently users tend to log into their video or other content service with an individual ID and use the service in a communal manner oftentimes resulting in inconsistent and inaccurate recommendations.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a non intrusive user identification system. This invention seeks to assuage the login problem by automatically monitoring an audience and identifying individual participants to inform a content delivery system or personalization system as to which particular mixture of users both unknown and known may be present.

The system could use a variety of devices to specifically or generally identify participants and then associate them with login specific information such as their viewing history usage habits and patterns preferred types and sources of content and account information or with generic preferences known for certain demographics.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Embodiments provide for an automatic detection of a user or group of users and providing personalized content based on presence information. These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Although the embodiments described herein focus on a use for video content recommendations and video related preferences in a living room environment embodiments may also be used for other media content types in other media consumption environments. For example embodiments may be utilized for automatically choosing music for family members who are in a car choosing photos of friends to display at a party depending on which friends are attending etc.

Referring now to a simplified block diagram illustrating a system for providing personalized content based on presence is shown. The system may comprise one or more endpoint devices such as but not limited to a mobile communication device a desktop or laptop computer a tablet computing device or other wireless device an Internet television or a television connected to a networked device such as a set top box STB . The one or more endpoint devices may be operable to receive content such as video content audio content etc.

The system may comprise a personalization system . According to embodiments the personalization system may receive identification information of a person or a group of persons in an environment. Identification information may include for example two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D imaging voice data weight and or stride length data data from an radio frequency identification RFID tag identification data of a mobile phone or other personal portable computing device e.g. a tablet laptop computer etc. . The identification information may be detected by one or more sensors. The one or more sensors may include a camera a microphone a pressure sensitive pad an RFID system a GPS cellular triangulation wireless network triangulation local device associations an application or other sensor . A sensor may be an independent device or may be integrated with other components e.g. a set top box STB a television a mobile phone a computer a tablet computing device etc . For example 2D or 3D imaging which may include visual or thermal imaging may be provided by a camera . The camera may be visual or thermal and may be an independent device or may be integrated with another component. Voice data may be provided by a microphone and weight and or stride length data may be detected by a pressure sensitive pad.

One or more components of the personalization system may be network based wherein identification information may be provided to the personalization system via a network such as the Internet or a hybrid fiber coax HFC network. According to an embodiment the components of the personalization system may be centralized as illustrated in alternatively one or more components of the personalization system may be decentralized and may communicate over a network .

The personalization system may include an identification engine operable to determine a person or a group of people according to the identification information detected by the one or more sensors . Although illustrated as located remotely over a network alternatively the identification engine may be locally based. Certain types of identification such as geo location by network triangulation for mobile devices may be passive and network based with standard location software and systems.

Individualized personalized information associated with a person or a group of people may be stored in a user profile database . The individualized personalized information may include personalizations preferences demographics etc. for one or more people. User profile data may be retrieved for a person or a group of people identified by the identification engine .

The personalization system may also include a rules engine operable to apply personalization rules for providing content specific to the identified person or group of people. Existing individual or group preferences may be blended and prioritized via the rules engine to create a group preference specifically for the mixture of people in the environment. The rules engine may also be operable to apply safety rules to assure that certain content viewership or personalizations may not be allowed to occur. For example if adult type video content is being provided and a child is identified as being present a safety rule may be applied wherein the adult type video content may cease to be provided until the child is no longer detected in the environment. The rules engine may be similar to existing server based rules engines used for personalization recommendation etc. but may include enhancements to the rules algorithms to take into account complexities of multiple and changing simultaneous users. The rules may be a combination of system defined rules e.g. never show adult content if a child is in the room user defined rules defined via a user interface e.g. web based STB based or application based on a mobile device tablet etc. or learned by watching user behavior e.g. when a parent and a child are in a room 80 of the time children s programming is watched so recommend 80 children s programming .

Having described a system architecture is a flow chart of a method for automatically providing personalized content based on presence according to an embodiment. The method may begin at START OPERATION and may proceed to OPERATION where a person or a group of people may be identified in an environment. OPERATION may be performed by a variety of methods. According to one embodiment users may manually identify themselves when they enter or leave an area. According to another embodiment automated methods for identifying users in a room may be performed and may include one or a combination of the following methods though those skilled in the art will recognize many other methods are possible 

According to an embodiment a user s mobile phone or other personal portable device e.g. tablet being within range of a low power WiFi hotspot Bluetooth unit etc. embedded in a STB or other quasi permanent device in a room may provide identification information either from the quasi permanent device itself or via an application on the device that may report back location information. Identification of a user may comprise certainty thresholds to prevent or allow certain content. For example a low certainty identification of a child from a single sensor may stop adult rated content from being provided whereas a higher certainty from multiple sensors may be required to start adult rated content.

According to an embodiment a learning process step may be performed. For example a facial recognition system might associate a viewed person to a specific login account for which the system records personalization preferences. The same login account may also be associated with a mobile device or voice recognition profile as well to better verify a person and to provide positive identification under variable conditions e.g. a user is wearing a hat forgets his phone or has a cold producing a raspy voice . The system may also provide for dynamic biometric associated data for example normal growth in children over time weight gain or weight loss etc. A recording of who is in an environment at all times or at regular intervals in a database may also be performed at OPERATION . This data may be used later by systems for example to tailor advertisements etc. to who is in a room at a given time.

The method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where a determination may be made as to whether those who are identified at OPERATION is are a known person or group of people. If unknown persons are detected in the environment at OPERATION this information may be used by the personalization system to automatically create new users or to prompt the user whether there is a new person for whom a profile should be created. Alternatively the information may be passed to the personalization system to be used in a general manner. If unknown persons are detected in a room the system may have a set of defaults for certain user types. For example if the voice recognition system detects the voice of what is determined to be an unknown child the system may use a generic child profile to make child friendly personalization for as long as the child is detected to be in the room.

If those who are identified at OPERATION is are a known person or group of people the method may proceed to OPERATION where individual information for the known person or group of people may be retrieved. According to an embodiment OPERATION may comprise a retrieval of personalization data preference data viewing history data demographic data etc. for the known individuals identified in a room so that those profiles can be blended together in the next step. It is also possible that for certain combinations of persons their typical group behavior is different from a combination of their individual behaviors in which case the system may also retrieve personalization data preference data viewing history data demographic data etc. that is unique to the grouping of individuals.

At OPERATION prioritization blending and or safety rules based on the composition of the audience may be applied and personalization recommendations advertisements set preferences content display etc. may be made. OPERATION may comprise blending and prioritizing existing individual or group preferences i.e. user profile data stored in a user profile database via a rules engine to create a group preference specifically for the mixture of persons in a room. This blending and prioritization may take many forms and have many uses. For example when providing video recommendations the following rules may be applied 

Although the above examples relate to video recommendations similar rules may be created and applied for other types of personalizations. For example 

OPERATION may also include applying system or user definable safety rules to assure that certain content viewership or personalizations are not allowed to occur. For example an obvious use may be associated with viewing adult type video content. A safety rule may be applied to ensure that if a child enters into a room where adult type video content is being displayed the content may cease to be provided upon detection of the child.

OPERATION may also include a number of potential uses from an advertising perspective. Knowing what people demographics are in the room may allow advertising to be more relevant and personalized. For example an ad insertion system may query the database of the persons that are in the room and choose an applicable commercial to show to the exact people in the room. For example an applicable ad might be for a family vacation if the entire family is in the room whereas if just adults are in the room a political advertisement may be shown. Furthermore from an advertising perspective if the persons in the room are known even for non targeted generic ads a service provider may be able to provide feedback to advertisers of exactly which persons or demographic groups have seen a particular ad.

The method may proceed to OPERATION where user behavior in a group environment that may influence future personalization may be monitored and fed back to the personalization system as either group behavior or potentially separable instances of individual specific behavior. Monitoring user behavior in a group setting may be performed to get feedback on personalizations for the purpose of either looking for group specific behavior or for deconstructing group behavior into individual behavior. This feedback may consist of observing what video music etc. content has been selected or consumed ratings assigned by the group to particular pieces of content e.g. 3 of 5 stars etc. after it has been consumed changes in personalization settings or other observed feedback of the group s satisfaction dissatisfaction.

It may be possible that the types of content users may like when together as a group may be different than the simple blending of individual behaviors. For example the group may have a dominant member who exerts more control over content choices than others. Or the group may only exhibit preferences for certain content on poker night that users might not watch at other times. Alternatively certain behavior in a group setting may have some individual relevance as well. For example if a video recommendation system were to track what movies a person has watched so as to not recommend things that have already been seen group viewership of a movie may count as having seen the movie. Accordingly the system may track such information.

The method may proceed to OPERATION where changes in the audience composition may be monitored such that personalization changes can be made. OPERATION may be performed on a continuous or as needed basis to adjust the system to changes in audience composition such as when a person enters or leaves a room. The system may comprise a minimum time or timeout value to ensure that actions such as people briefly leaving the room e.g. to get a snack or only briefly being in the room e.g. passing through the living room on their way out the front door do not adversely factor into personalizations. The method ends at OPERATION .

Embodiments may be implemented in a number of ways. Identification OPERATION or monitoring OPERATIONS may be locally or remotely based. For example cameras for facial recognition the microphones for voice recognition etc. may be local to a user s environment however the intelligence for determining which person a sensor has identified may be located remotely over a network in a centralized set of servers. These sensors may either be independent devices or integrated with other component such as a set top box TV mobile device laptop tablet etc. Certain types of identification such as geo location by network triangulation for mobile devices may be passive and network based with standard location software and systems.

A network may be used to connect the sensors used for identification in OPERATION to the system used in OPERATION to retrieve the individualized personalized information for the identified persons or generic user profiles for unknown persons . This retrieval system may be a database though it may also be part of a larger system used for the management and storage of personalized preferences likes and dislikes or other individualized or group data.

OPERATION may be implemented by commonly available systems that observe user behavior of a specific content type. For example when providing video recommendations a system may record various information such as what video content items a user watches for how long he watches the content items etc. and may analyze how actual behavior matches up with predicted behavior. This type of monitoring may be performed and stored for billing purposes in the case of purchased video content set top box or head end logging for linear TV content for billing disputes etc. For example if a customer disputes a purchase of certain content monitoring information may be provided to determine what users may have been in a room when the content was consumed. The stored information may include records of user identities degrees of certainty time date stamp data etc. According to one embodiment actual video audio or photos related to user identification behavior may not be stored.

As can be appreciated many other implementations may be possible. The system may be almost entirely centralized and network based aside from the in room sensors . Alternatively the system may be decentralized with only a few common pieces at a centralized location. The entire system may be self contained within a single personalization service provider although certain elements may be shareable between service providers assuming that standards are defined for the interchange of relevant information.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules. The memory includes one or more computer readable media. According to one embodiment the personalization system may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor provide personalized content based on presence as described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable media. According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes two different types of media including communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. WiFi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example one or more components of the personalization system . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment one or more components of the personalization system may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS receiver e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WiFi based positioning system to determine a device s location.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items. According to embodiments the operating system may include one or more components of the personalization system as described herein.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 400 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers mobile communication device systems and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

