---

title: Automated appliance registration
abstract: A method for registering an appliance with a service provider, including receiving, by a server computer, a message from a cellular telephone, the message including a unique ID for an appliance, wherein the server computer stores billing information for the cellular telephone, wherein the appliance includes a modem, wherein the cellular telephone is separate from the appliance, and wherein the server computer is separate from the appliance and separate from the cellular telephone, further receiving, by the server computer, registration information from the appliance via the modem of the appliance, and associating, by the server computer, the billing information for the cellular telephone, with the appliance registration information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08746549&OS=08746549&RS=08746549
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08746549
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130709
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 13 612 890 entitled AUTOMATED APPLIANCE REGISTRATION filed on Sep. 13 2012 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Uri Ron Hagay Katz Hagit Perry and Ran Margalit. U.S. Ser. No. 13 612 890 is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 13 347 125 entitled AUTOMATED APPLIANCE REGISTRATION filed on Jan. 10 2012 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Uri Ron Hagay Katz Hagit Perry and Ran Margalit. U.S. Ser. No. 13 347 125 is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 091 772 entitled AUTOMATED APPLIANCE REGISTRATION filed on Sep. 25 2008 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Uri Ron Hagay Katz Hagit Perry and Ran Margalit. U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 995 575 entitled AUTOMATED CONSUMER ELECTRONICS DEVICE REPORTING filed on Sep. 26 2007 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Uri Ron Hagay Katz and Hagit Perry. U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 also claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 062 171 entitled MODULAR WIRELESS COMMUNICATOR filed on Jan. 23 2008 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Itay Cohen Tami Demri Hagay Katz Eran Miller Hagit Perry Uri Ron and Yaron Segalov. U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 also claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 063 668 entitled MODULAR WIRELESS COMMUNICATOR filed on Feb. 5 2008 by inventors Dov Moran Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Itay Cohen Yaron Segalov Tami Demri Eran Miller Uri Ron Hagay Katz and Hagit Perry. U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 also claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 080 264 entitled AUTOMATED CONSUMER ELECTRONICS DEVICE REPORTING filed on Jul. 13 2008 by inventors Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Uri Ron Hagay Katz and Hagit Perry. U.S. Ser. No. 12 237 394 also claims foreign priority from PCT Application No. PCT IL2008 000164 entitled MODULAR WIRELESS COMMUNICATOR filed on Feb. 6 2008 by inventors Dov Moran Itay Sherman Eyal Bychkov Itay Cohen Yaron Segalov Tamir Demri Eran Miller Uri Ron Tal Engelstein Hagay Katz and Hagit Perry.

The field of the present invention is wireless communication applied to automated registration of appliances.

Consumers who buy new electrical appliances generally contact the manufacturer or seller after purchase of the appliance in order to register the appliance and thereby obtain a warranty. The warranty holds the manufacturer or seller responsible for defects in the appliance.

Currently registration is performed manually. Specifically to register a new appliance a consumer generally needs to fill out registration forms and send them to the manufacturer or seller either via regular postal service or electronically via the Internet. Registration includes information about the appliance and information about the owner of the appliance. Information about the appliance includes a serial number a model number a point of purchase and a date of purchase. Information about the owner includes name and contact details.

Registration of an appliance may be time consuming or cumbersome and as a result many consumers do not properly fill in and submit their registration forms. These consumers often discover when a problem with the appliance arises that they do not have valid warranties.

Aspects of the present invention concern automatic registration for electrical appliances. In one embodiment the present invention employs a communication card that includes a controller a flash storage memory a battery a wireless modem a power amplifier and an interface for connecting the card to an appliance. When the communication card is connected to a new appliance the card automatically collects information about the appliance and its owner and transmits the collected information to a remote manufacturer or seller for registering the appliance.

There is thus provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for automatically registering an appliance including a storage housed within an electrical appliance for storing identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase and a communication card including a controller an interface connector for connecting the communication card to the electrical appliance a wireless cellular modem for transmitting data and a card memory for storing program code wherein when the communication card is connected to the electrical appliance via the interface connector the program code automatically instructs the controller to collect the identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase to collect owner information and to transmit at least a portion of the collected information to at least one remote recipient using the cellular modem.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for automatically registering an appliance including connecting a communication card to an electrical appliance wherein identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase is stored within a memory in the electrical appliance automatically collecting i the identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase from the memory in the electrical appliance ii owner information and iii contact information for at least one remote recipient by the communication card automatically opening a connection with the at least one remote recipient by the communication card and automatically transmitting at least a portion of the collected information to the at least one remote recipient by the communication card.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for registering change of ownership of an appliance including connecting a first communication card to an electrical appliance wherein usage information about the electrical appliance is stored within a memory in the electrical appliance issuing a notification to the electrical appliance via the communication card that is ownership is being relinquished connecting a second communication card to the electrical appliance wherein information about a new owner is stored within a memory in the second communication card detecting that the second communication card is connected to the electrical appliance and that the ownership of the electrical appliance is currently relinquished automatically collecting i the usage information about the electrical appliance and ii the information about the new owner automatically opening a connection with a remote recipient by the second communication card and automatically transmitting at least a portion of the collected information to the recipient by the second communication card.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a wireless communicator including an interface configured to enable the wireless communicator to connect to a plurality of different electronic devices wherein each of the plurality of electronic devices has device information a memory storing a device registration program a wireless modem configured to transmit and receive data from time to time when the wireless communicator is connected to one of the plurality of different electronic devices and from time to time when the wireless communicator is not connected to any of the plurality of different electronic devices and a controller coupled to the interface the memory and the wireless modem the controller configured to receive the device information from an electronic device connected to the wireless communicator and to execute the device registration program wherein the device registration program includes instructions that cause the wireless modem to transmit at least a portion of the device information to a recipient.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an electronic device including an interface configured to enable the electronic device to connect to one of a plurality of wireless communicator and to enable data to be transferred between the electronic device and a wireless communicator connected to the electronic device a memory storing device information and a controller coupled to the interface and the memory the controller configured to transfer at least a portion of the device information to a wireless communicator connected to the electronic device for transmission to a recipient.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for registering an appliance with a service provider including providing an appliance the appliance having a unique ID associated therewith and the appliance including a cellular communication modem providing a cellular telephone the cellular telephone having a unique phone number associated therewith and having billing information associated therewith sending a message from the cellular telephone to a designated phone number the message including the unique appliance ID registering the appliance over a communication network and associating the billing information associated with the cellular telephone with the appliance.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for registering an appliance with a service provider including providing an appliance the appliance having a unique ID associated therewith and the appliance including a cellular communication modem and a Bluetooth modem providing a cellular telephone the cellular telephone having a unique phone number associated therewith and having billing information associated therewith and the cellular telephone including a Bluetooth modem moving the appliance in proximity to the cellular telephone initiating a Bluetooth connection from the appliance s Bluetooth modem to the cellular telephone s Bluetooth modem approving the initiated Bluetooth connection to the cellular telephone dialing from the cellular telephone to a designated destination transmitting the device ID to the designated destination and associating the billing information associated with the cellular telephone with the appliance.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for registering an appliance with a service provider including providing an appliance the appliance having a unique ID associated therewith and the appliance including a detachable SD module the SD module including a pre set SMS message containing the unique ID providing a cellular telephone the cellular telephone having a unique phone number associated therewith and having billing information associated therewith detaching the SD module from the appliance inserting the SD module into the cellular telephone copying the SMS message from the SD module into the cellular telephone sending the SMS message from the cellular telephone to a designated destination and associating the billing information associated with the cellular telephone with the appliance.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for registering electronic devices with service providers including providing a database table of appliances and unique IDs thereof providing a database table of cellular telephone numbers and associated billing information receiving a cellular telephone number and a unique appliance ID and associating the billing information associated with the cellular telephone with the appliance by joining the database table of appliances with the database table of cellular telephone numbers.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for automatically registering an appliance including a storage housed within an electrical appliance for storing identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase and a communication card including a controller an interface connector for connecting the communication card to the electrical appliance a wireless cellular modem for transmitting data and a card memory for storing program code wherein when the communication card is connected to the electrical appliance via the interface connector the program code automatically instructs the controller to collect the identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase to collect owner information and to open a TCP connection to a server computer and to transmit at least a portion of the collected information to the server computer using the cellular modem.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for automatically registering an appliance including connecting a communication card to an electrical appliance wherein identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase is stored within a memory in the electrical appliance automatically collecting i the identifying information about the electrical appliance and its purchase from the memory in the electrical appliance and ii owner information by the communication card automatically opening a TCP connection with a server computer by the communication card and automatically transmitting at least a portion of the collected information to the server computer by the communication card.

Aspects of the present invention relate to a communication card that connects to an electrical appliance and automatically registers the appliance for its owner. Reference is now made to which is a simplified illustration of a communications network with a communication card that wirelessly transmits information about an appliance to one or more of a remote manufacturer a remote seller and a remote service provider in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Reference is also made to which is a picture of a physical communication card in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. When communication card is connected to appliance the communication card automatically registers the appliance by transmitting appropriate information about the appliance its purchase and its owner to remote manufacturer or seller or service provider .

Reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a system for a communication card used for registration of electrical appliances in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a communication card CC and a host electrical appliance which connect to one another using a host interface and a CC interface . Host interface and CC interface may be a physical interface such as a USB interface or an SD interface or a BLUETOOTH interface or such other wireless interface.

Main components of CC include a controller not shown a flash storage memory a wireless cellular modem and a power amplifier . CC optionally includes a power subsystem an input device such as a keypad and an output display an audio subsystem and an optional subscriber identification module SIM .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention memory stores information about the owner of CC . Owner information includes sufficient information for registering the owner of electrical appliance . In an alternative embodiment of the present invention information is stored in SIM . Memory also stores program code for registering host appliance . Modem sends and receives voice and digital data using wireless communication via an antenna or via an optional wireless LAN or via both. Power amplifier is used to amplify data transmitted by modem . Power amplifier includes an RF interface .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when CC includes the optional components shown in then CC functions both as a standalone modular cell phone and also in cooperation with electrical appliance as a device for automated appliance registration as described hereinbelow. In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention when CC does not include the optional components shown in then CC functions only in cooperation with electrical appliance .

Electrical appliance may be any of a wide variety of devices. Electrical appliance may be an entertainment device including inter alia a home entertainment center a video game console such as the PLAYSTATION manufactured by Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. of Tokyo Japan a multimedia player a television an audio system and a DVD player. Electrical appliance may be a communication device including inter alia a telephone a fax machine and a cell phone. Electrical appliance may be a piece of office equipment including inter alia an office computer a printer and a scanner. Electrical appliance may be a home appliance including inter alia a refrigerator a microwave oven a stove a washing machine a drying machine and an air conditioner. Electrical appliance may be a consumer appliance including inter alia a personal computer a personal data assistant PDA an automobile a treadmill and a camera. Generally electrical appliance includes a user interface for activating functions of appliance and a storage memory for recording information about the electrical appliance and its purchase. Host purchase information includes sufficient information for registering electrical appliance . Such details may include inter alia a serial number for appliance a model number a date of purchase and an identifier for the store where appliance was purchased.

CC is used to send registration information about electrical appliance and its owner to one or more of seller manufacturer or service provider .

When CC is connected to appliance appliance serves as a host device. To register appliance registration program code programs CC i to collect requisite host purchase information from host memory and owner information from CC memory or from SIM and ii to forward the collected information to the seller manufacturer or service provider for appliance as appropriate using modem . Contact information for seller manufacturer or service provider may be available in host memory . Alternatively seller manufacturer or service provider contact information may be entered manually to CC . Yet alternatively seller manufacturer or service provider contact information may be available in CC memory . Specifically CC may store a list of manufacturers and their appliances and looks up the appropriate contact information based on appliance .

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention owner information does not reside in CC memory or in SIM . Instead CC obtains the owner information from an external server.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention connection to seller manufacturer or service provider is initiated by CC and transmitted over GPRS GSM mobile data service . CC creates a file or text message that includes the relevant registration data shown as message in . An example of such file or text message is as follows.

In another embodiment of the present invention CC transmits the registration information via an SMS or MMS message. In yet another embodiment of the present invention CC places a voice call to seller manufacturer or service provider with the registration information using text to speech conversion.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention CC uses dial tone modulation frequency DTMF thereby obviating the need for text to speech conversion. DTMF signals include the digits 0 1 . . . 9 the symbols and and possibly the characters A B C D. Using these signals CC encodes and transmits the registration information to seller manufacturer or service provider over a regular voice call and seller manufacturer or service provider decodes the signals to obtain the registration information.

In a different embodiment of the present invention owner information is not stored in CC . Instead owner information is retrieved by the seller manufacturer and service provider after receipt of registration data sent from CC . Alternatively or additionally owner information together with an optional owner log history is stored within appliance itself.

After CC has registered appliance a corresponding flag is set in CC memory or host memory . Thereafter when CC is connected to appliance it knows not to register appliance a second time.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention CC maintains a history log of appliances that it has registered.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for registering electrical appliances using a communication card in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At step a buyer purchases an electrical appliance which serves as a host device such as appliance of . At step the buyer connects a communication card such as CC to the host appliance. At step the CC card controller recognizes its connection to the host.

At step the CC controller under program instruction from code stored on CC such as program code collects host information and purchase information from a storage memory in the host. Such host and purchase information includes inter alis a serial number a model number a date of purchase and an identifier of a store where the appliance was purchased. At step the CC controller collects information about the owner from storage memory in the CC or from a SIM in the CC. At step the CC controller collects contact information for the seller manufacturer or service provider of the appliance with whom the appliance is to be registered. Such contact information may be stored in the host or may be manually entered. Finally at step the CC opens a connection to the seller manufacturer or service provider and transmits the registration information. The CC may transmit the registration information as data transmitted over GPRS. Alternatively the CC may transmit the information as a voice transmission by making a phone call to the seller or manufacturer.

In alternative embodiments of the present invention if the owner is already a subscriber to a service provider the owner s information is already available. The CC only needs to provide an ID for the owner. For example the owner s CC may already be registered with a service provider. As such when the CC transmits data the CC can be identified say from a phone number or from another identifier assigned thereto. The CC thus need only transmit host information to a service provider and the service provider can determine the owner information from the CC phone number or from another identifier of the CC.

In this regard reference is now made to and which illustrate three such alternative embodiments. is a simplified flowchart of a method for registering an appliance with a service provider in accordance with a first alternative embodiment of the present invention. At step a consumer purchases a new appliance having a unique ID associated therewith. In order to use the new appliance the consumer must register it by subscribing to an appropriate service provider.

At step the consumer sends an SMS or MMS message to a designated phone number the message including the unique ID for his new appliance. The designated phone number generally corresponds to a service provider operator or server computer.

The new appliance may have its own embedded modem. If so then at step the appliance when activated registers itself over a communication network to a server computer. The appliance uses a network ID that corresponds to the ID of the appliance. Otherwise if the appliance does not have an embedded modem the appliance may use a CC to perform the registration.

After steps and the service provider has received i the consumer s cellular telephone number as the source of the SMS message and ii the appliance ID number. At step the service provider associates the billing information associated with the consumer s cellular telephone number with the new appliance thereby registering the consumer s new appliance with the service provider.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for registering an appliance with a service provider in accordance with a second alternative embodiment of the present invention. At step a consumer purchases a new appliance having a unique ID associate therewith. The appliance includes a BLUETOOTH modem. In addition for this embodiment the consumer s cellular telephone also includes a BLUETOOTH modem.

At step the new appliance and the consumer s cellular telephone are brought into close proximity within the range of BLUETOOTH communication. At step the new appliance attempts to initiate communication with the consumer s cellular telephone via BLUETOOTH . Generally when such communication is initiated the consumer s cellular telephone indicates that a connection is being requested. At step the consumer approves the requested connection on his cellular telephone. At step the new appliance having communication with the cellular telephone is operative to dial the cellular telephone to a service provider operator or computer server. The service provider is able to recognize the source of the phone call i.e. the consumer s cellular telephone number.

If the new appliance has an embedded modem then at step the new appliance sends its device ID to the service provider. Otherwise if the new appliance does not have an embedded modem then a CC is used to send the appliance device ID to the service provider. At this stage the service provider has received i the consumer s cellular telephone number and ii the ID of the consumer s new appliance. At step the service provider associates the billing information associated with the consumer s cellular telephone number with the new appliance thereby registering the consumer s new appliance with the service provider.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for registering an electronic device with a service provider in accordance with a third alternative embodiment of the present invention. At step a consumer purchases a new appliance having a unique ID associated therewith. The new appliance includes a detachable memory module such as an SD miniSD or microSD form factor memory module and the module has stored within it a pre stored SMS message including the device ID.

At step the consumer unplugs the module from his new appliance and plugs it into his cellular telephone. At step the consumer copies the pre stored SMS message from the module to his cellular telephone. At step the consumer sends the SMS message to a service provider operator or server computer. The service provider thus receives i the consumer s cellular telephone number namely the source of the SMS message and ii the consumer s new appliance ID. At step the service provider assigns the billing information associated with the consumer s cellular telephone number with the new appliance thereby registering the new appliance.

Embodiments of the present invention are of advantage for registering change of ownership of an appliance. For example appliance may be an automobile and CC may be used to register a sale of the automobile from a previous owner to a new owner.

In one embodiment of the present invention change of ownership is registered by a two step process whereby i the previous owner uses CC to relinquish his ownership of appliance and ii the new owner uses CC to register his new ownership of appliance . Moreover appliance stores the terms of the original warranty for appliance in order that the new owner can determine the terms of the warranty and how much time remains for the warranty.

In this regard reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for registering change of ownership of an appliance in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart of refers to a previous owner who has transferred ownership of host appliance to a new owner. In the embodiment of the present invention shown in each owner has his own CC .

At step the previous owners connects his communication card to the host appliance. At step the previous owner relinquishes his ownership of the host thereby also relinquishing his rights to any applicable warranties. The host sets an ownership flag to indicate that its ownership is currently relinquished i.e. there is currently no owner.

At step the new owner connects his communication card to the host appliance. In the embodiment showed in the new owner s communication card has stored therein information about the new owner including inter alia the new owner s contact information. At step the CC controller recognizes that a CC is connected to the host and that the ownership of the host is currently relinquished. At step the CC controller collects the new owner information from the new owner s CC and resets the ownership flag to indicate that is ownership is no longer relinquished.

At step the CC controller collects usage data from the host. In general usage data relates to cumulative usage of the host. E.g. if the host is an automobile then its usage data may include the current mileage on the automobile if the host is a copier machine then its usage data may include the number of copies made to date by the copier machine. The usage data is generally relevant in determining the remaining warranty on the host. E.g. an automobile may have a warranty for the first three years or the first 50 000 miles whichever occurs first a copier machine may have a warranty for two years or up to 25 000 copies whichever occurs first.

At step the CC contacts a recipient such as a seller manufacturer or service provider of the host and transmits the new owner information and host usage data. At step the recipient updates its records to reflect the new owner updates any applicable warranties based on the host usage data to reflect the remaining lifetime of the warranties and transfers the updated warranties to the new owner. At step the recipient sends an acknowledgement to the new owner acknowledging his ownership and acknowledging his remaining warranties as appropriate.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the method of requires cooperation between the previous owner and the new owner. Moreover the method is fool proof in that if an owner of the host mistakenly relinquishes his ownership at step then he may reclaim ownership by re connecting his CC to the appliance at step .

In another embodiment of the present invention instead of or in addition to generating reports CC sends registration information it collects to a server computer. In this regard reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a web based device registration system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

A server computer includes a database with serial numbers or such other identifiers of electrical appliances and information about their corresponding manufacturers sellers or service providers . When CC is connected to electrical appliance CC opens a TCP connection and generates an HTTP request to computer server the request including inter alia the serial number of appliance and contact information such as a telephone number for the owner. An example of such an HTTP call is http www.myserver.com action.aspx action registration serial 89723464 phone 15551212.

Server information for computer server including inter alia a server URL which may be a server IP address a server domain name or such other locator is generally stored in CC .

Also shown in is an application programming interface API . After receiving the HTTP request with the serial number of appliance server computer locates the relevant information about manufacturer seller or service provider for the serial number and transmits a registration report for appliance to manufacturer seller and service provider via the API. In this way manufacturers sellers and service providers receive registration reports for the appliances that they are responsible for. This embodiment is described as push mode since server computer pushes the registration reports to manufacturers sellers and service providers .

In accordance with a pull mode embodiment of the present invention manufacturer seller or service provider uses the API to access server computer and extract registration reports for the appliances that they are responsible for from a website . In this embodiment manufacturers sellers or service providers pull their registration reports from web site .

Use of server computer is of particular advantage when manufacturer seller or service provider changes its contact information. The change is recorded once in server computer and does not need to be changed in appliances .

Additionally server computer may vary the format of messages sent to manufacturer seller or service provider so that registration reports are transmitted via SMS MMS phone call e mail HTTP request or such other transmission format.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

