---

title: System for internet protocol based outage handling
abstract: An internet protocol (IP)-based outage handling system. The outage handling system collects information about the impact of selected unavailable network resources on users accessing the network of an internet service provider (ISP). The outage handling system stores information identifying the unavailable network resource and monitors network traffic on the managed network for requests to access the unavailable network resource. The outage handling system intercepts requests to access the unavailable network resource and logs information associated with the request. The logged information may be used to track the total number of requests and analyze the actual impact of the outage. The outage handling system optionally collects additional voluntarily provided information that may be used to notify the user when the resource is available and/or to provide compensation for the access interruption caused by the outage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356829&OS=09356829&RS=09356829
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09356829
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131002
---
Outages of Internet and local area network resources e.g. websites or email services are inevitable occurrences. Resource outages may be the planned or unplanned result of maintenance or failure of the host device or the software. The Domain Name System DNS provides limited handling of resource outages. When a resource is unavailable users may simply receive a generic error message via the user agent e.g. the web browser or email application or in some cases the user agent may be redirected to a search page intended to help the user locate the unavailable network resource.

Most internet service providers have DNS servers providing internet protocol IP address lookup for use by their customers. However customers of one internet service provider that are roaming on another internet service provider s network may utilize the DNS servers of the internet service provider that customer is using to access the Internet. For example a customer accessing resources associated with their home internet service provider from work will typically be using the DNS servers associated with their work internet service provider. For example roaming users may be utilizing the DNS servers of the internet service provider of whom the user is a customer. Further some users may have systems using statically rather than dynamically configured DNS servers. For example a customer might choose to use an alternative DNS server provider e.g. DNS servers provided by an anti virus security vendor .

The level of information provided to the consumer also varies based on the location of the resource experiencing the outage. For resources on the internet service provider s network the internet service provider may have greater ability to control how an unavailable network resource is handled. If the resource experiencing the outage is outside of the internet service provider s network the internet provider has no control over how an unavailable network resource is handled. Delays in propagating DNS record changes to the multitude of DNS servers make customizing DNS redirection for a specific resource unsuitable or unworkable to handle short term outages. While standard port numbers of a resource are associated with the DNS record type e.g. A and MX records the DNS records do not support custom port numbers which limits the ability to provide redirection for nonstandard resources. As a result what the user sees in response to a resource outage can vary.

Customer service related to resource outages is another concern. The current ability to determine the impact of a resource outage and mitigate the inconvenience to users is limited at best even when DNS redirection is available. If it becomes widely publicized compensation is being offered for a resource outage customers that were not affected may seek to claim compensation. At the same time customers that were actually affected may not be aware that compensation is being offered or may not want to deal with the perceived hassle of obtaining the compensation. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

Various embodiments of the system for internet protocol based outage handling collects information about the impact of selected unavailable network resources on users accessing a managed network. The outage handling system stores information identifying the unavailable network resource and monitors network traffic on the managed network for requests to access the unavailable network resource. The outage handling system intercepts requests to access the unavailable network resource and logs information associated with the request. The logged information may be used to track attempts to access the resource during the outage and analyze the actual impact of the outage. The outage handling system optionally collects additional voluntarily provided information that may be used to notify the user when the resource is available and or to provide compensation for the access interruption caused by the outage.

The outage handling system includes a network traffic monitor an outage content server and an affected user database. The outage handling system is typically maintained by a managing entity i.e. a manager operating a managed network accessible by a user. The outage handling system may handle network resources located on the managed network i.e. on network or on an external network i.e. off network . The off network resources are typically operated by third parties e.g. news providers online retail stores or resource hosting service companies . Available network resources are those that are functioning and accessible by a user of the managed network. Unavailable network resources are those that are not functioning and or are not accessible by a user of the managed network.

The network traffic monitor analyzes network traffic on the managed network intercepts a request destined for an unavailable network resource and redirects the request to the outage content server for handling. The network traffic monitor runs a routing service configured with outage rules applied to network traffic on the managed network at the network layer. An outage response engine running on by the outage content server serves the front end for interaction with the user by sending outage related content to the user agent. The outage content server automatically captures basic information and optionally serves content used to provide information about the outage and collect voluntarily provided user information. The voluntarily provided user information may be used to provide benefits to the user such as a notification when the network resource becomes available or compensation for the disruption caused by the outage. The affected user database stores the information collected by the outage content server. In various embodiments the outage content server is in communication with one or more business support systems e.g. a customer management or billing database .

Various embodiments of the method for internet protocol based outage handling performed by the outage handling system begin by configuring the outage handler for the unavailable resource. Once configured the outage handler monitors the managed network for any network traffic destined for the unavailable resource. When network traffic destined for the unavailable resource is located it is redirected to the outage content server where user information is collected access restored notifications are handled and access interruption compensation is handled.

The outage handler configuration operation begins by identifying unavailable network resources. The outage related content is associated with the resource identifier of an unavailable network resource. The outage related content includes the outage notification that is to be sent to the user agent in response a request for an unavailable network resource. An access restored notification may be enabled for an unavailable network resource. Similarly compensation options may be selected and associated with the resource identifier of an unavailable network resource.

The network traffic monitoring operation applies the outage rules to control the flow of the network traffic. Requests sent to network resources with a resource identifier that does not satisfy the conditions of an outage rule are ignored by the outage handling system and pass on to be handled by the target network resource. If resource identifier of a request satisfies the conditions of an outage rule the routing service redirected to the outage content server.

The outage response engine parses the resource identifier for the unavailable network resource from the redirected request and locates the outage related content associated with the resource identifier. Next the outage response engine sends the outage notification message to informing the user that the requested resource is unavailable to the user agent. Meanwhile the outage response engine captures the basic information associated with the content request. The captured information allows the manager to identify the users or client devices attempting to access the resource during the outage. The basic information is associated with the resource identifier of the unavailable network resource and stored in the affected user database. Some embodiments of the outage response engine use the automatically captured basic information for customer identification by attempting to obtain information from the business system support system. If the user cannot be identified from the basic information or additional information is required the outage response system solicits voluntarily provided user information. The voluntarily provided information is associated with the resource identifier of the unavailable network resource and stored in the affected user database.

The availability of access restored notifications for the unavailable network resource is checked. If the access restored notification is enabled for the unavailable network resource the outage response engine solicits the user whether an access restored notification is desired and any contact information needed to provide the access restored notification. If the user opts to receive an access restored notification the outage response engine enables the delivery of the access restored notification associated with the unavailable network resource for the user. When access is determined to have been restored the outage response engine sends the access restored notification to the users for which access restored notification delivery has been enabled.

If compensation options are associated with the unavailable network resource the outage response engine notifies the user that compensation may be available and solicits the user to select a compensation option and or confirm acceptance of the compensation option. If it is determined that the affected user is a customer of the manger in operation some embodiments of the outage response engine automatically fulfill the compensation offering. In the case of third party compensation some embodiments of the outage response system may send the basic and or voluntarily supplied information to the third party for processing.

An internet protocol IP based outage handling system is described herein and illustrated in the accompanying figures. The outage handling system collects information about the impact of selected unavailable network resources on users accessing a managed network. The outage handling system stores information identifying the unavailable network resource and monitors network traffic on the managed network for requests to access the unavailable network resource. The outage handling system intercepts requests to access the unavailable network resource and logs information associated with the request. The logged information may be used to track attempts to access the resource during the outage and analyze the actual impact of the outage. The outage handling system optionally collects additional voluntarily provided information that may be used to notify the user when the resource is available and or to provide compensation for the access interruption caused by the outage.

The illustrated embodiment shows a number of users accessing the managed network via client devices . Examples of suitable client devices include but not limited to a mobile computing device e.g. a smart phone or tablet a general computing device e.g. a desktop or laptop computer and a specialized computing device such as a television a set top box or other smart appliance. The client devices are generally capable of running a user agent used to access a network resource. Examples of suitable user agents include but are not limited to web browser and email applications. In various embodiments the user agents compatible with the outage handling system are capable of rendering a hypertext markup language HTML document.

The illustrated embodiment also shows a number of network resources running on host computing devices located on the managed network i.e. on network or on an external network i.e. off network such as the Internet. The off network resources are typically operated by third parties e.g. news providers online retail stores or resource hosting service companies . More specifically the illustrated embodiment shows an unavailable on network resource an unavailable off network resource an available on network resource and an available off network resource . Available network resources are those that are functioning and accessible by a user of the managed network . Unavailable network resources are those that are not functioning and or are not accessible by a user of the managed network . Exemplary reasons that a network resource may be unavailable include but are not limited to hardware or software failures crashes hardware or software upgrades system maintenance network failures and domain name system entry misconfiguration.

The network traffic monitor analyzes network traffic on the managed network intercepts a request destined for an unavailable network resource and redirects the request to the outage content server for handling. The terms request and response are used to describe network traffic with directionality and should not be construed as requiring any specific communication protocol. In various embodiments the requests and responses handled by the outage handling system are hypertext transfer protocol HTTP requests and HTTP responses. In some embodiments the response to a request for resource in the outage list is a HTTP 302 redirect. The outage content server automatically captures basic information and optionally serves content used to provide information about the outage and collect voluntarily provided user information. The voluntarily provided user information may be used to provide benefits to the user such as a notification when the network resource becomes available or compensation for the disruption caused by the outage. The affected user database stores the information collected by the outage content server . The affected user database may be an independent database maintained by the outage handling system . In various embodiments the outage content server is in communication with one or more business support systems e.g. a customer management or billing database .

In one embodiment the network traffic monitor is a network device running a routing service configured with outage rules applied to network traffic on the managed network at the network layer. In an alternate embodiment the network traffic monitor is a network device in communication with a computing device running the routing service . The outage rules applied by the routing service are resource identifier based. Examples of suitable resource identifiers include but are not limited to one or more of the domain name the uniform resource locator URL the IP address and the port number of the target resource specified by the request. If a request destined for an unavailable network resource is received the routing service redirects the request to the outage content server for handling. Because the request is handled before reaching the unavailable web site no special handling is required by the unavailable web site. In other words the outage handling system preempts handling of the request by the unavailable network resource . Examples of suitable network devices include but are not limited to network switches network routers network port analyzers network appliances and other network hardware having port mirroring replication and or programmable routing functionality.

An outage response engine running on the outage content server serves the front end for interaction with the user by sending outage related content to the user agent . Examples of suitable outage related content served by the outage content server include but are not limited to web portals web pages and HTML forms in application messages and email messages. In application messages e.g. in browser messages are messages that may be displayed to the user via the user agent for example as a pop up message from a remote source. At a minimum the outage related content notifies the user that the requested resource is unavailable and captures basic information that may be automatically obtained or derived from the request or a client device . Examples of the basic information that may be captured by the outage response engine include but are not limited to the media access control MAC address of the client gateway i.e. the client modem from where the request originated the MAC address or telephone number of the client device making the request the IP address assigned to the client device making the request the IP address and or URL of the requested unavailable network resource and the date time of the request.

In some embodiments the outage related content includes a form that may be voluntarily filled out by the user to receive compensation for the outage. In various embodiments the user has the opportunity to select from one or more compensation options. As with the basic information the voluntarily provided information is stored in the affected user database for subsequent use. Some embodiments of the outage content server also use the voluntarily provided information to notify to the user when the network resource becomes available again.

The outage related content is associated with the resource identifier of an unavailable network resource in operation . The outage related content includes the outage notification that is to be sent to the user agent in response a request for an unavailable network resource . A stock outage notification may be used for all unavailable network resources or the outage notification may be customized for an unavailable network resource . An access restored notification may be enabled for an unavailable network resource in operation . Similarly compensation options may be selected and associated with the resource identifier of an unavailable network resource in operation .

Meanwhile the outage response engine captures the basic information associated with the content request in operation . The captured information allows the manager to identify the users or client devices attempting to access the resource during the outage. In various embodiments the information is captured automatically. In some embodiments some or all of the basic information is obtained from the headers and or body of the request. In some embodiments the outage notification message contains scripts or other code used to collect the identifying information from the client device and or the gateway device associated with the client device . In other embodiments the outage response engine queries the client device and or the gateway device directly to obtain the basic information. The basic information is associated with the resource identifier of the unavailable network resource and stored in the affected user database in operation .

In addition to the basic information the outage response engine may obtain additional information about the user to provide benefits such as access interruption compensation and or an access restored notification. Some embodiments of the outage response engine use the automatically captured basic information for customer identification by attempting to obtain information from the business system support system in operation . The outage response engine compares some or all of the basic information against the information maintained by the business support system . The comparison may use automatically collected information e.g. the MAC address or telephone number of the client or gateway device or voluntarily provided information e.g. username or account number . If the basic information is associated with a customer the outage response engine retrieves information about the customer from the business support system in operation . In some cases the outage response engine presents the information retrieved from the business support system and solicits confirmation of the user s identity.

If the user cannot be identified from the basic information or additional information is required the outage response system solicits voluntarily provided user information . The information typically requested for benefit processing includes but is not limited to information identifying the user of the client as a customer of the manager or the provider of the affected resource and contact information for the user of the client. Examples of the user identity information requested include but are not limited to the user s name the user s email address and the user s account number and or username with the manager and or the provider of the unavailable network resource . The voluntarily provided information is associated with the resource identifier of the unavailable network resource and stored in the affected user database in operation .

When access is determined to have been restored in operation the outage response engine sends the access restored notification to the users for which access restored notification delivery has been enabled in operation . In various embodiments the outage response engine monitors the outage rules or the outage list for changes. In some embodiments the routing service notifies the outage response server when the outage rules or the outage list changes. When the outage rule for a network resource is removed or a resource identifier is removed from the outage list the outage response engine automatically generates and sends access restored notifications. In other embodiments the generation and sending of access restored notifications by outage response engine is initiated by the manager.

In various embodiments third parties may enjoy the benefits of the outage handling system through an arrangement with the manager. For example an internet retailer responsible for an off network resource outage might choose to offer affected users a discount e.g. a percentage or dollar amount on a future purchase. In another example a sports network responsible for an off network resource outage may agree to reimburse the cable operator for providing a premium service e.g. a free month of a premium sports channel to the affected user .

Not all users may be eligible for available compensation. Some embodiments of the outage response engine may attempt to verify eligibility prior to offering compensation. Eligibility may be automatically verified by the same or similar techniques used to identify customers. Where eligibility cannot be automatically verified the outage handling system may accept the voluntarily supplied compensation request but provide notice that fulfillment compensation request is contingent upon eligibility verification. In the case of third party compensation some embodiments may send the basic and or voluntarily supplied information to the third party for eligibility verification before offering compensation options.

If it is determined that the affected user is a customer of the manger in operation some embodiments of the outage response engine automatically fulfill the compensation offering in operation . Example of automatic compensation fulfillment include but are not limited to updating the customer s account e.g. entering a billing credit or adding complimentary service providing the customer with a redeemable code e.g. a discount code or generating and submitting an order via one or more of the business services systems linked to the outage handling system . In the case of third party compensation some embodiments of the outage response system may send the basic and or voluntarily supplied information to the third party either as it is received or when access is restored in operation .

The information collected by outage handling system may be used by the manager to analyze the impact of the outage. The level of analysis available to the manager varies with the type and amount of information collected by the outage content server . In various embodiments the information collected by the outage content server may be analyzed in the aggregate to determine the number of users actually impacted by the resource outage without personally identifying affected users . When available the voluntarily provided information may be used by the manager for enhanced analysis of the impact of the outage.

The captured information may also be used where contemporaneous compensation is not offered. For example when a customer calls in to complain about the resource outage the captured information would provide a record that the customer attempted to access the resource during the outage. This knowledge allows customer service to take appropriate measures to address the customer s complaint e.g. offering compensation with assurance that the customer was actually impacted by the outage rather than attempting to cash in on a publicly or privately reported outage.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the set top box . In the illustrated embodiment the set top box is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a smart phone a personal computer e.g. a laptop or desktop a smart television a set top box a tablet slate computer etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the television or the set top box via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The set top box also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the set top box and the server side head end system described below.

The set top box also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the set top box in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the set top box for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side set top box . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side set top box may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The set top box may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The set top box may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the set top box and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 MHz and 1000 MHz. The signaling space is generally divided into channels which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between 0 MHz and 54 MHz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side set top box . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system is well known to those skilled in the art.

The head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via television set . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to embodiments client application may include the user agent described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. In the illustrated embodiment the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

The web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services. According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services. According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems of which the illustrated embodiment is only one example.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to one embodiment the user agent the routing engine and the outage response engine may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the routing engine and the outage response engine to provide IP based outage handling as described above.

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage media refers to devices and other articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device and specifically excludes communications media. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile or nonvolatile and removable or non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user . Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the illustrated embodiment the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the user agent the routing engine and the outage response engine . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment the user agent may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or a WI FI positioning system to determine the location of a device .

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to flowcharts and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the Figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved. While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The description and illustration of one or more embodiments provided in this application are not intended to limit or restrict the scope of the invention as claimed in any way. The embodiments examples and details provided in this application are considered sufficient to convey possession and enable others to make and use the best mode of claimed invention. The claimed invention should not be construed as being limited to any embodiment example or detail provided in this application. Regardless of whether shown and described in combination or separately the various features both structural and methodological are intended to be selectively included or omitted to produce an embodiment with a particular set of features. Having been provided with the description and illustration of the present application one skilled in the art may envision variations modifications and alternate embodiments falling within the spirit of the broader aspects of the general inventive concept embodied in this application that do not depart from the broader scope of the claimed invention.

