---

title: Cold crack additive on paving advertising and related methods
abstract: A paving advertisement has an elongated flexible tape body with a base substrate layer. The base substrate layer has front and rear faces, the front face having at least one text message that conveys information. The base substrate layer includes a cold crack additive, such as polyvinyl chloride, thereby increasing its strength and flexibility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08950095&OS=08950095&RS=08950095
owner: ParkMarx Advertising, LLC
number: 08950095
owner_city: Arvada
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130712
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 271 477 filed Nov. 14 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 486 208 which is a continuation in part of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 186 310 filed Jul. 21 2005 now abandoned which is itself a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 633 943 filed Aug. 4 2003 now abandoned. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 271 477 filed Nov. 14 2008 also claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 60 988 676 filed Nov. 16 2007. Each of the applications identified above is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Pavement marking was an early method used for directing motor and foot traffic. In the era of brick roads different colored bricks were used to convey safety information. Later paint was used however early paints had poor durability under the demanding conditions of foot and motorized traffic and the environment. In addition pavement painting was usually a time consuming and disruptive task. Paint required drying time and traffic had to be kept off the painted surface until drying was complete. Rain cold and heat adversely affected the drying time and the success of the operation. Once paint was dry and in use it was often difficult to remove when changes in the traffic pattern were required.

More recently pavement tapes have been used for marking pavement for example to delineate pedestrian crossings and lane markings. Although pavement tapes could be applied more quickly than paint reducing traffic disruptions early pavement marking tapes had limited visibility and poor durability under many road conditions. Improved tapes permitted long term or temporary application and provided skid resistance low temperature durability high temperature durability and reflectivity.

Despite advances in pavement marking tapes motorists and pedestrians have been provided with minimal information such as sidewalk and crosswalk delineation centerlines and other road markings at best. On the other hand Applicant s information conveying pavement tape may provide for example information of a commercial nature and in a manner that is efficient effective and safe. Commercial information as used herein may include the following commercial advertising for example advertising of available real estate tourist attractions and businesses such as home improvement stores hardware stores department stores and other shops restaurants bars beer liquor grocery stores gas stations hotels motels entertainment venues and the like event advertising such as advertising for sales concerts theater productions festivals and other events directional information for example maps compass points mile markers and directions to area businesses or tourist attractions tourist information such as interesting area facts things to do in the area operating hours of area attractions and the like solicitations for example by community agencies or charitable institutions and or public safety information including information about traffic conditions road conditions detour requirements turn requirements the presence of pedestrians and safety reminders such as be a designated driver and the like.

The claims at the end of this specification set forth a full and accurate description of Applicant s information conveying pavement tape which may illustratively include one or more of the following embodiments.

In one embodiment a paving advertisement comprises an elongated flexible tape body having a base substrate layer with front and rear faces the front face comprising at least one text message that conveys information where the base substrate layer is treated with a cold crack additive for increasing strength and flexibility.

In one embodiment a method of conveying information from pavement includes treating a base substrate layer of an elongated flexible tape with cold crack additive printing at least one text message conveying information on a front face combining an upper substrate layer with the front face of the base substrate layer and bonding a rear face of the base substrate layer to a section of pavement.

Pavement tape may serve as a pavement sign conveying commercial information based on the letters of a language. For example pavement tape may serve to convey information to people traversing the pavement or to motorists. Pavement signs based on the letters of a language may serve a variety of purposes including delineating parking spaces in a parking lot advertising and directing consumers to businesses proximate the parking lot conveying traffic conditions road conditions detour requirements turn requirements and or the presence of pedestrians. Lettered pavement signs may for example delineate parking areas for the disabled or advertise goods or services of local national or international purveyors. In other contexts lettered pavement signs may convey solicitations by community agencies or charitable institutions directions to community landmarks public safety reminders such as know when to say when be a designated driver and the like. When sponsored by a company or business such signs may also include the name of the sponsor allowing the sponsoring company for example to leverage their charitable support by advertising and associating their company name with the charity.

Pavement tape may convey commercial information of a particular interest to out of town motorists and pedestrians. For example pavement tape may include symbols that convey information about and or directions to tourist attractions restaurants bars hotels coffee shops grocery stores gas stations entertainment venues and commercial establishments such as home improvement stores hardware stores department stores and malls. Symbols may also convey advertisements for area real estate and or special events including concerts plays sales and festivals for example.

Thus symbols may be printed upon front face of base substrate layer . Symbols may be digitally printed upon front face for example using a solvent based ink jet printer. For outdoor applications a long lasting outdoor ink for example a Scitex vision 200 series five year outdoor ink may be used in combination with a Scitex printer for printing symbols upon front face .

A first adhesive layer A is for example a pressure sensitive adhesive that couples with rear face . The pressure sensitive adhesive may be a weather and solvent resistant acrylic adhesive having the following specifications 

First adhesive layer A may alternatively be a 0.005 inch rubber adhesive Ritrama Duramark part number 3 8590 10000 also known as VYW 3.25 M 86 50G may serve as tape body and adhesive layer A for example.

An upper substrate layer protects front face of base substrate layer . Upper substrate layer includes a second adhesive layer at least partially covered by a protective layer for example a vinyl film. Upper substrate layer is for example a pressure sensitive weather resistant acrylic adhesive covered with an 18 mm 235 g mvinyl PVC film. The acrylic adhesive layer may thus have the following specifications 

A smooth transparent PVC film having a matte finish may provide for easy viewing of symbols while reducing glare from sunlight streetlights or headlights for example.

Protective layer may be a suitable protective material for example a siliconized paper layer and adhesive layer may be a suitably strong weather resistant adhesive. Upper substrate layer is for example a plasticized embossed polyvinyl chloride poly acrylic ester based adhesive covered with siliconized paper such as 7.4 mil vinyl GBC Arctic . Grain produced by GBC Industrial and Print Finishing Group.

Upper substrate layer joins with base substrate layer at front face . For example upper substrate layer may be joined with base substrate layer by placing upper substrate layer atop base substrate layer such that second adhesive layer contacts and adheres to front face . The joined substrate layers may be fixed together for example by laminating e.g. cold laminating upper substrate layer to base substrate layer .

Upper substrate layer may include a release tape for protecting second adhesive layer . For example Kraft paper coated with polyethylene PE and silicon such as a 120 6 g mPE lame paper may be releasably bonded to second adhesive layer . Such a release tape is removed from second adhesive layer prior to placing upper substrate layer atop base substrate layer .

As shown in the perspective view of tape body is relatively thick and not necessarily to scale. And there is no requirement for this particular thickness. The thickness of tape body is a matter of design choice depending on the intended application. The size and orientation of symbols is also a matter of design choice. As shown in symbols of pavement tape are approximately half the width of tape body and are positioned in a line with the vertical axis of the symbols perpendicular to an edge of tape body . This size position and orientation of symbols is not a requirement but rather is application dependent. At one extreme the symbols may take up close to the entire width of the tape. At the other extreme the symbols may be as small as permitted by the application. For example smaller symbols may be required where symbols are stacked on top of one another across the width of the tape. Depending upon the application the symbols may also vary in height as compared to one another. Furthermore symbols may vary in position and orientation. For example there is no requirement that a symbol or symbols be oriented with a vertical axis perpendicular to an edge of tape body . Depending on the application a symbol may have a broad range of angular orientations relative to one or both edges of tape body . Additionally symbols may have a broad range of angular orientations relative to one another. For example the vertical axis of one symbol may be perpendicular to the vertical axis of another symbol.

As illustrated by the symbols of pavement tape also may be non language symbols. depicts a top view of a section of another continuous pavement tape . The symbols of this pavement tape are fanciful comprising a star a snowman and a snowflake. Symbols also could relate to motorist activity or safety. Thus symbols could be turn arrows stop indicators road condition indicators detour indicators pedestrian or crosswalk indicators bicycle lane indicators and or disabled indicators. Beyond this symbols may be graphic representations or photographs depicting commercial establishments such as hotels motels bars eating establishments shopping centers gas stations and or other services of interest to motorists cyclists and or pedestrians. As used herein the term motorist includes operators and passengers of vehicles including cars trucks buses motorcycles and other known vehicles. Symbols may thus include both language based symbols to form a composite message and or advertisement for the motorist cyclist or pedestrian.

As shown in the bases of symbols are disposed along the horizontal axis of tape body . However as previously noted symbols may have a broad range of angular orientations relative to one or both edges of tape body . For example shows alpha numeric symbols with their sides oriented along the horizontal axis of tape body such that a motorist cyclist or pedestrian approaching tape body and moving in the direction of arrow may easily read symbols . Continuous pavement tape may be made integrated or provided as a roll for example as shown in .

Pavement tape may be placed at or before an intersection such that approaching motorists cyclists and pedestrians may read the composite advertisement while approaching the intersection. Pavement tape may also be placed in the center of an intersection thus allowing motorists cyclists and pedestrians the opportunity to read pavement tape while stopped at a traffic light. As shown in the composite advertisement formed by symbols A C is oriented along the long horizontal axis of tape body . However as shown in the composite advertisement may also be oriented along the vertical axis of tape body such that pedestrians approaching a pavement tape placed at a crosswalk are able to easily read the tape. Other orientations of the composite advertisement e.g. symbols A C are within the scope of this disclosure.

Alpha numeric symbols may be printed onto tape body in a color or colors contrasting with the color or colors of tape body . For example symbols may be digitally printed onto tape body using a palette of outdoor inks that contrast with the colors of tape body . In a specific example tape body may be red and black symbols may be printed in red and white ink upon the black portion or portions of tape body and printed in black and white ink upon the red portion or portions of tape body .

Further it should be apparent that switch may also connect to audio storage and playback circuitry which then also connects to speaker by wires . Audio storage and playback circuitry may include a recorder A to record and or store audible information for playback and or a memory not shown to store recorded audible information it may also be digitally programmable. Where amplification of the played audible information is desired for example at a busy intersection an amplifier B may also be included in circuitry . Audio storage and playback circuitry is also shown attached to light post however as with speaker audio storage and playback circuitry may be positioned at any convenient location e.g. within tape body such as when circuitry is configured as an ASIC and may not require wires when in wireless communication with switch .

Switch may be pressure activated such that pressure applied to switch triggers play of pre recorded information at speaker . In the embodiment of the pre recorded information may be commercial information such as an advertisement for a home improvement store sale however pre recorded information may also include music public safety announcements tourist information event advertising and or directional information. Switch may also activate lights disposed within atop below or remote from tape body . In one embodiment lights with tape body are LEDs. As shown in lights surround a message composed of symbols B. Lights may also form symbols A C provide a border for tape body and or be otherwise placed so as to draw attention to part or all of tape body .

In an example of operation a person s footstep upon switch triggers lights and or play of pre recorded information relating to one or more of symbols A C forming a composite audiovisual advertisement. Since one or more lights e.g. light A may be proximate to tape body such a light A may be a streetlight a light mounted on an adjacent building or structure and or one or more lights disposed elsewhere upon a section of pavement. Thus lights may delineate a crosswalk in a street or parking lot or a curb. A timer not shown may also be incorporated into pavement tape such that lights remain illuminated for a selected time following activation of switch . Likewise lights and or play of pre recorded information may be activated by a vehicle upon switch and lights may delineate parking spaces or commercial advertising in a parking lot.

In one embodiment sound may be provided by one or more sound chips including pre recorded information. As shown in sound chip is connected to pressure activated switch . Pressure upon switch for example by foot initiates play of the pre recorded information from sound chip . Multiple sound chips and switches may be included in one pavement tape such that a person plays a composite advertisement including a variety of pre recorded information while traversing the pavement tape and activating switches . Pressure activated switches may likewise activate lights such that wires are not needed. Switches may include electrodes e.g. electrodes A B of switch that complete a circuit upon contacting one another thus activating sound chip for example.

Pavement tape may also be wholly or partly reflective. For example symbols may also be printed in whole or in part with a reflective ink such that at least a portion of a symbol is reflective. Alternately or additionally at least a portion of base substrate layer or upper substrate layer of tape body may be wholly or partially reflective thus lending a reflective quality to at least a portion of tape body . Pavement tape may also be made reflective by affixing glass beads thereto for example by affixing glass beads to the front face of the base substrate layer.

In reflective glass beads are arranged over the entire front surface of tape body except that symbols are not covered. A motorist viewing pavement tape of under automobile headlights at night will observe a field of light surrounding symbols which would appear dark by contrast.

Reflective glass beads are not required in the pavement tape of . Reflective paint may be used in place of reflective glass beads . Alternately other materials that contrast with symbols may accomplish the same or a comparable result especially when pavement tape is viewed in daylight. In daylight applications reflective glass beads may be replaced by alternative contrast materials such as bright paints and or plastics impregnated with bright pigments. Such alternative contrast materials may be superior to reflective glass beads in daylight applications. For example tape body may usefully be coated on its top surface with a bright paint or plastic rather than reflective glass beads or simply be formed of an appropriately bright material. On the other hand symbols may be formed of glass beads or other alternative contrast material leaving tape body relatively dark.

There is no requirement that reflective glass beads or other alternative contrast materials be placed over the entire front surface of tape body . Reflective glass beads may be placed over a smaller area of tape body if the application so dictates. Other materials may be used in areas where reflective glass beads are not present. For example a bright paint might be used to create a pavement tape that is useful in both day and night applications or a different type of reflective glass bead might be used to enhance night performance. Similarly an abrasive might be used to enhance traction for pedestrians as well as motorists.

The composite tape structure of is positioned over pavement . The exact placement of the composite structure may be determined and achieved and the composite tape structure lowered so that first adhesive face A of base substrate layer contacts pavement .

Although first adhesive layer A may serve to adhere the composite tape to pavement a bed of pavement adhesive may be utilized and in such case first adhesive layer A may be omitted . accordingly shows the composite tape structure of minus first adhesive layer A being lowered onto a bed of pavement adhesive A. This pavement adhesive A may be any one of a number of types of adhesive. Generally speaking it will be high tack with a high cure strength and low creep although these and other characteristics will vary with the application.

The composite tape structure is positioned over pavement adhesive A on pavement and the exact placement of the composite tape structure is determined and achieved. The composite tape structure is then lowered so that the bottom of tape body contacts pavement adhesive A e.g. so that rear face of base substrate layer contacts pavement adhesive A.

Release tape and release layer protect first adhesive layer A. Release layer may be a low tack PSA adhesive that bonds weakly to first adhesive layer A but provides a stronger bond to release tape however a number of other adhesives may serve effectively as release layer . In some applications release layer may be done away with altogether and the necessary release properties incorporated into the surface of release tape . For example in one embodiment release tape is a wood free paper e.g. Kraft paper coated with polyethylene and silicon for example a PE lame release paper having a thickness of about 0.125 mm and a basic weight of about 120 g m. Polyethylene and silicon coatings may provide a releasable bond with first adhesive layer A such that release tape may be easily peeled or otherwise removed. Release tape may be used independently of pavement adhesive A such that adhesive layer A alone bonds tape to pavement .

The lettering on first crosswalk tape A is oriented to face a pedestrian passing through the crosswalk in either direction. The same is true of the lettering on crosswalk tape A. The lettering on centerline tape A has been oriented so that it is upright to a pedestrian passing from sidewalk through the crosswalk but inverted to a pedestrian passing through the crosswalk in the opposite direction. Were the lettering on centerline tape A oriented so as to appear inverted to a pedestrian passing from sidewalk through the crosswalk it would appear upright to a motorist stopped at crosswalk .

Parking tape segments and refer generically to FOOD and with an arrow specify a general direction in which the food for example a collection of fast food establishments may be found. The letters of parking tape segments and may be inverted as discussed above. Parking tapes through relate to services. Tapes and include an arrow pointing out the general direction of RESTROOMS while tapes though identify the location of EMERGENCY services at a specific location B5 which may for example be a floor and sector identifier. Here again the letters of parking tape segments may be inverted as discussed above.

Centerline tape A sets forth commercial information for example indicating the general direction of XYZ DRUG and ACME GAS with opposing up and down arrows respectively. These messages are upright to a motorist and passenger parking on the left side of centerline tape A but inverted to a motorist parking on the right side. The letters may be inverted to reverse the situation or only one message may be inverted so that left side motorists see for example XYZ DRUG upright and ACME GAS inverted. Right hand motorists of course would see the opposite. Alternately each message may be displayed for both the left side and right side motorists. For example each message may be displayed as a mirror image.

The tapes of may be of any size and shape consistent the needs of a parking lot. The thicknesses and colors of the tapes and letters are limited only by the dictates of the application. Glass beads and other reflective materials may be used again depending on the dictates of the application.

The only part of tape body that is visible through mask perforation is the portion of tape body surrounding and bearing the circular symbol perforation A. If mask tape body is black and if tape body is embedded on its top surface with reflective glass beads backed with black pavement the visual result at night to a motorist using headlights or a pedestrian with a flashlight will be a shining star with a black center. Alternately as described herein above glass beads may be disposed on the surface of pavement beneath a base substrate layer not shown of perforated pavement tape . Circular symbol perforation A may extend through tape body and base substrate or through tape body where base substrate is made of a light transmissive material to convey the effect of a shining center.

Composite images of this type may take many forms. They may be built from two layers of tape or from many layers. The component tapes may be a spectrum of colors and textures including transparent components. Transparent components may provide actual visual depth and provide a viewer with a three dimensional image. Holographic or other components may simulate visual depth and provide a viewer with an illusion of a three dimensional image. Upper perforations need not surround lower perforations in their entirety but rather surround only portions of lower perforations. Designer choices govern these selections.

Mask tape has a green mask tape body . The top surface A of the body is bonded to a protective tape by a protective tape adhesive A. Its bottom surface B is coated with an adhesive of the same type used to bond perforated pavement tape to pavement e.g. as used in first adhesive layer A although this is not a requirement. Mask tape is perforated by mask perforation with boundaries and which exceed boundaries and of perforated pavement tape at all points as depicted in .

When mask tape is bonded to perforated pavement tape so that mask perforation is aligned directly above symbol perforation as illustrated in a viewer will observe the green surface of mask tape body interrupted by the star shaped mask perforation . Behind mask perforation the viewer will observe the smaller circular symbol perforation of perforated pavement tape . That symbol will be as black as the pavement beneath it and surrounded by the red of tape body up to the boundaries imposed by mask perforation of mask tape body . The visual result will be a red star with a black center in a green backdrop.

It is to be understood and appreciated that alternate configurations of perforated pavement tape and mask tape may also be implemented. For example base substrate layer e.g. may be a perforated pavement tape and upper substrate layer may be a mask tape.

Text message may be printed upon front face of base substrate layer . Text message may be digitally printed upon front face . For outdoor applications a long lasting outdoor ink may be used for printing text message upon front face . Text message prompts the consumers to interact directly with the advertiser such as to retrieve a message or a discount for example.

First adhesive layer A applied to the rear face may be a pressure sensitive adhesive. The pressure sensitive adhesive may be a weather and solvent resistant acrylic adhesive having similar specifications to those described above. In one embodiment first adhesive layer A may be a rubber adhesive that serves as both tape body and adhesive layer A at the same time.

An upper substrate layer including a second adhesive layer protects front face of base substrate layer . Upper substrate layer is for example a pressure sensitive weather resistant acrylic adhesive covered with an 18 mm 235 g mvinyl PVC film. The acrylic adhesive layer may thus have similar specifications as to those adhesive layers described above. A smooth transparent PVC film having a matte finish may provide be added to for easy viewing of text message while reducing glare from sunlight streetlights or headlights for example. Protective layer partially covering the upper substrate layer may be a suitable protective material such as a siliconized paper layer and adhesive layer may be a suitably strong weather resistant adhesive.

Upper substrate layer joins with base substrate layer at front face . For example upper substrate layer may be joined with base substrate layer by placing upper substrate layer atop base substrate layer such that second adhesive layer contacts and adheres to front face . The joined substrate layers may also be fixed together for example by laminating e.g. cold laminating upper substrate layer to base substrate layer .

The various tape and pavement configurations described in the detailed description set forth are not intended to limit the scope of this application. Changes may be made in the information bearing pavement tape described herein without departing from the scope thereof. The matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings should be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. The following claims are intended to cover all generic and specific features described herein as well as all statements of the scope of the present system and methods which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

