---

title: Compact microbeam radiation therapy systems and methods for cancer treatment and research
abstract: The present subject matter relates to compact, non-synchrotron microbeam radiation therapy (MRT) systems and methods for cancer research and treatment based on a carbon nanotube distributed x-ray source array technology. The systems and methods can deliver microscopically discrete x-ray radiation at peak dose rate of 10 Gy per second or higher. The x-ray radiation can be provided by a spatially distributed x-ray source array. The technology can be used, for example and without limitation, for human cancer treatment, for intra-operative radiation therapy, and for pre-clinical cancer research on animal cancer models.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08995608&OS=08995608&RS=08995608
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08995608
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 688 425 filed Jan. 15 2010 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 205 240 filed Jan. 16 2009 the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. U54 CA 119343 and 1R21 CA 118351 01 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to radiotherapy systems and methods. More particularly the subject matter disclosed herein relates to microbeam radiotherapy systems and methods for cancer treatment and research. Microbeam Radiotherapy MRT radiation can be characterized by its microscopically discrete spatial radiation distribution beam width is less than 1 millimeter and beam separation is several millimeters and ultra high dose rate 10 Gy s or higher .

The fundamental challenge of radiotherapy is to treat cancer patients effectively and safely. Current radiotherapy systems and methods provide excellent benefits for patients with early stage and radiosensitive cancers but these benefits diminish for patients with radioresistant tumors e.g. brain or pancreas cancers and patients with late stage tumors. For these patients the radiation needed to eradicate the tumor can cause intolerable or fatal radiation damage. This is especially the case for pediatric patients whose rapidly developing normal tissues are often more radiosensitive than their tumors and who therefore cannot tolerate radiotherapy that would be curative for adults with the same disease. As a result normal tissue collateral damage is a major limitation in current radiotherapy preventing effective radiotherapy treatments for cancer patients of a young age patients with central nerve system cancers radioresistant cancers and late stage cancer with large tumors. These cancer patients currently have a poor prognosis.

Microbeam Radiotherapy MRT is a unique form of radiation that has shown an extraordinary ability to eradicate tumors while sparing normal tissue in numerous animal studies. MRT utilizes multiple narrow but well separated x ray planar beams i.e. microbeams and delivers radiation at extremely high dose rate. MRT radiation differs from conventional radiotherapy radiations in two aspects dose spatial discreteness and dose temporal rate. In conventional therapy the dose rate is about 100 times lower and the dose distribution is microscopically continuous in space. The current solution which is not always effective is to use multiple treatments at 2 Gy per treatment. In contrast animal studies have shown that single treatments at a dose level of several hundred Gy e.g. about 10Gy or greater can eradicate a tumor while sparing normal tissue including developing tissue in the central nervous system.

There are currently two hypotheses for the mechanism by which MRT can provide tumor eradication while sparing normal tissue. First it is believed that tumor microvasculature does not repair itself well while normal tissue does. Second there appears to be a bystander effect wherein unirradiated tumor cells die with irradiated tumor cells through cell cell signaling See e.g. D. Slatkin et al. 92 pp 8783 8787 1995 . However the underlying mechanism of MRT is still poorly understood. Nonetheless MRT is extremely attractive for human application as the key challenge of radiotherapy has been how to eradicate tumors with minimal collateral damage to the host normal tissue.

Unfortunately however MRT requires that x rays with an extremely high dose rate e.g. on the order of 100 Gy s or higher are needed to irradiate tissues in a fraction of a second to assure minimal broadening of the micro slices due to movement of the target. This dose rate is several orders of magnitude higher than what is typically used for conventional radiation therapy.

Existing x ray tube technologies today cannot provide a MRT dose distribution and dose rate as the MRT dose rate can be thousands of times that of state of art radiotherapy machines 5 Gy min . The high dose rate is thought to be important for minimizing the broadening due to the object motion of the tens of micron wide microbeam required during irradiation of live objects. A conventional x ray tube comprises a metal filament cathode which emits electrons when it is resistively heated to over 1000 C. and a metal target anode that emits x ray when bombarded by the accelerated electrons. The spatial resolution of an x ray source is determined by the size of the focal spot which is the area on the x ray anode that receives the electron beam. Because of the high operating temperature and power consumption essentially all current commercial x ray tubes are single pixel devices where x ray radiations are emitted from single focal spots on the anodes. The heat load of the anode limits the maximum x ray flux of an x ray tube. To generate the small MRT beam size at the ultrahigh dose rate using the current x ray technology would require an ultrahigh electron beam density and heat load that are beyond physical possibility. For instance the state of art high power x ray tube operating at 100 kW delivers only about 1 10 cGy s at patient with 0.6 m source object distance

As a result due to this high required dose rate MRT has thus far been studied exclusively using synchrotron radiation for instance at the National Synchrotron Light Source NSLS in the United States and at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility ESRF in Grenoble France. Therefore in order to speed up the research that may advance the promising cancer treatment for potential human application there is a need for compact non synchrotron source MRT systems and associated methods that can be widely available for cancer centers for preclinical research and clinical application.

In accordance with this disclosure compact non synchrotron source MRT systems and methods for microbeam radiotherapy are provided. In one aspect a method for microbeam radiation therapy is provided. The method can comprise positioning a distributed x ray source array about a target to be irradiated the x ray source array comprising a plurality of carbon nanotube field emission x ray sources and simultaneously generating a plurality of x ray microbeams from the plurality of carbon nanotube field emission x ray sources.

In another aspect a microbeam radiotherapy system is provided. The system can comprise a distributed x ray source array comprising a plurality of carbon nanotube field emission x ray sources each of the x ray sources being positioned to direct x rays towards a common focus a microbeam array collimation a positioning device for aligning a target with the plurality of x ray microbeams and a control system in communication with each of the plurality of x ray sources in the distributed x ray source array for simultaneous generation of a plurality of x ray microbeams from the plurality of x ray sources.

Although some of the aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein have been stated hereinabove and which are achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other aspects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

A traditional x ray source generates x ray radiation from a small area on the x ray anode focal spot that receives electrons. The local temperature on the anode can reach over 1500 C. when it is bombarded by the high energy electrons. The maximum x ray dose can be limited by the heat load that can be tolerated by the anode which is also related to the size of the focal spot. For instance a clinical linear accelerator LINAC can deliver a dose of only about 5 Gy min. In contrast the present subject matter provides compact non synchrotron source MRT devices systems and methods that can utilize multiple separated narrow x ray planar or line beams to deliver radiation at a comparatively higher dose rate. The MRT devices systems and methods can be used for example for cancer treatment for humans including brain tumors and for intra operative radiation therapy. It is also envisioned that MRT devices systems and methods as disclosed herein can be used for cancer research in animal models.

As discussed above MRT differs from conventional radiotherapy techniques in both dose spatial discreteness and dose temporal rate. Specifically referring to B rather than a single broad beam that provides a substantially continuous dose distribution across the beam width devices systems and methods for MRT produce a plurality of x ray microbeams MB each having a beam width on the order of about 1 mm or smaller. As can be seen in a sample irradiated using an MRT method can be identified by a plurality of distinct x ray beam paths. The plurality of microbeams MB can be directed toward a target T e.g. a tumor which can be contained within an object O.

A second feature that differentiates MRT from conventional radiotherapy is the comparatively high temporal dose rate. Previously disclosed systems and methods for MRT produce x ray using a high energy synchrotron or a conventional X ray tube source but each of these options has significant drawbacks as discussed above. In contrast the presently disclosed subject matter provides that comparatively high temporal dose rates sufficient for MRT can be achieved using a spatially distributed x ray source array composed of a plurality of individual x ray sources that can be positioned about object O.

In one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the spatially distributed x ray source array can be based on a carbon nanotube CNT distributed x ray source array technology. For example CNT field emitters are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 724 titled Large Area Individually Addressable Multi Beam X Ray System and Method of Forming Same U.S. Pat. No. 6 850 595 titled X Ray Generating Mechanism Using Electron Field Emission Cathode and U.S. Pat. No. 6 553 096 titled X Ray Generating Mechanism Using Electron Field Emission Cathode the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Exemplary configurations for a field emission x ray source are illustrated in . In the exemplary configurations shown a field emission x ray source can comprise a field emission cathode structure such as for example a nanostructure or carbon nanotube film on a conducting substrate. A gate electrode e.g. a high melting temperature metal grid can be positioned above cathode such that applying a voltage between cathode and gate electrode can cause electrons to be field emitted from cathode for example as an electron beam EB and directed towards an anode for generation of an x ray beam. X ray source can further comprise a focusing electrode for focusing electron beam EB before it reaches anode thereby reducing the size of the focal spot on anode .

The system can further comprise a microbeam collimator shown in which can be positioned in the path of the emitted x ray beam to allow only selected x ray microbeams MB having a defined beam thickness d to be transmitted thereby defining the irradiation area. In one embodiment shown in for example collimator can produce fan beam x ray radiation with a narrow beam width e.g. having a beam width of between about 0.01 mm and 1 mm . As a result a thin slice of target T can be irradiated by x ray microbeams MB. To minimize the damage to the normal tissues the fan beam angle i.e. the spread of the fan beam can also be collimated such that the x ray radiation covers primarily the region occupied by target T. In addition the system can also comprise a radiochromic film e.g. Gafchromic XR QA positioned between each x ray source and target T. In this configuration x ray microbeam MB can be generated with significantly higher dose rate than what is used in clinical treatment. In another arrangement the system can comprise a multi slit microbeam collimator or a plurality of collimators shown in which can likewise be positioned in the path of the emitted x ray beam. This arrangement can create a plurality of non overlapping e.g. parallel x ray microbeams MB emitted from each of x ray sources .

To achieve the high dose rate required by MRT a plurality of x ray sources can be assembled in a distributed x ray source array as shown in . Each x ray source can be a distinct element with an independent cathode and anode which can be operated independently or in combination with other of the plurality of x ray sources . Alternatively x ray source array can comprise an anode ring and an opposing cathode ring inside a vacuum container. In this alternative configuration cathode ring and anode ring can be operated collectively to produce x ray radiation from the anode ring and irradiate target T within object O.

In either arrangement x ray source array functions as a distributed x ray source. Instead of using one parallel x ray beam delivering the radiation from one direction or two orthogonal beam arrays i.e. as done in the experiments performed at the synchrotron sources x ray source array surrounds target T to be irradiated. In this way x ray radiation can be delivered from multiple directions to a common focus to increase the amount of radiation received at target T without increasing the amount of radiation received at any intervening portion of object O outside of target T. In addition each of the plurality of x ray sources can be arranged such that x ray microbeams MB from one of x ray sources irradiate a first portion of target T x ray microbeams MB from a second of x ray sources irradiate a second portion of target T different from the first portion and so on. For instance referring to a first set of x ray microbeams MB can irradiate target T along a plurality of parallel radiation planes while a separate set of x ray microbeams designated MB in can irradiate target T along radiation planes that are interleaved with the radiation planes of the first set of x ray microbeams MB. In this way the x ray radiation at target T has a substantially continuous dose distribution even though each individual x ray microbeam MB does not.

As a result by distributing the x ray power over a large area surrounding target T x ray source array can generate micro planar x ray beams with dose rates at target T that are sufficient for MRT. For example x ray source array can generate dose rates on the order of about 0.1 to 100 Gy sec or it can generate much higher dose rates on the order of 500 Gy sec. Meanwhile portions of object O outside of target T only receive x ray radiation from a single x ray microbeam MB or group of microbeams rather than the combined radiation at the common focus and thus the dose rate for these intervening portions can be much lower.

X ray source array can be configured to be in any of a variety of geometries such as a ring an arc a polygon or a linear array. For instance in one configuration shown in x ray source array can have a ring shaped structure. Object can be positioned inside the ring structure with target T at a focus of the plurality of x ray sources and a plurality of x ray microbeams can thereby be emitted from multiple locations along a circumference of the ring towards target T. In another configuration shown in x ray source array can have a polygonal structure with multiple segments each segment essentially operating as a linear x ray source array. Although the ring shaped array and polygonal array configurations shown in the figures only have x ray sources on a portion of x ray source array it should be understood by those having skill in the art that x ray sources can be positioned about the entirety of x ray source array to more fully distribute the emitted x ray microbeams MB about target T.

Compared to conventional x ray tubes that typically generate x rays from a small area on the x ray anode therefore x ray source array distributes the power over a larger area and or to multiple focal points on the x ray anode so that a high dose rate can be achieved. Primarily because of the limitations of the heat load of the x ray anode a current state of art commercial thermionic x ray tube can be operated at around 100 kW at an effective focal spot size of 1 1 mm after reflection . This is insufficient for the dose rate required for MRT. Specifically previous study of MRT indicates that a dose rate in the order of 100 Gy sec can be effective but achieving such dose rates has previously only been possible using a synchrotron source. In the present systems and methods however x ray microbeams MB can be generated around the circumference of a ring or polygon shaped anode structure and directed towards target T. By distributing the power over a large area a much higher x ray dose can be achieved without generating excessive heat loads at any one x ray anode. Further through the use of carbon nanotube based field emission x ray sources the size of the x ray focal spot can be reduced compared to prior art devices i.e. less than 1 1 mm .

Further a system for microbeam radiotherapy can comprise a controller that can set the treatment parameters including the dose to be delivered the dwell time the width of the x ray radiation plane and the spacing between adjacent radiation planes. In addition the system can also comprise a patient bed for supporting the patient undergoing radiotherapy i.e. object O and a positioning device that can align target T with the radiation field. For instance the alignment of x ray source array can be performed using an x ray computed tomography CT scanner e.g. a dynamic micro CT in connection with positioning device . CT scanner can identify the location of target T as well as any peripheral structures of object O e.g. normal tissue surrounding a tumor and positioning device can then be used to align target T with a focus of microbeams MB.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a method for microbeam radiotherapy is provided. The method can comprise positioning distributed x ray source array about target T to be irradiated e.g. a tumor within a medical patient x ray source array comprising a plurality of carbon nanotube field emission x ray sources and simultaneously generating a plurality of x ray microbeams MB from the plurality of carbon nanotube field emission x ray sources . X ray source array can be structured such that x ray microbeams MB can be generated from the plurality of field emission x ray sources at different locations on x ray source array . X ray sources can be switched to deliver x ray microbeams MB to either one or several parallel radiation planes on target T in a short time. A treatment planning program can be used to determine the radiation dose the width of the x ray beam the spacing between the x ray radiation planes and the exposure time each of which can be controlled by a controller in communication with x ray source array .

To generate multiple and parallel irradiation planes either object O in which target T is contained or x ray source array can be translated after each exposure to a sequence of positions within a small interval and x ray source array can be operated to irradiate target T after each translation. The process can be repeated until the entire area of target T is irradiated. In this way x ray source array can deliver x ray radiation to target T with the dose being distributed in alternating high and low dose planes.

The steps for an exemplary process according to this method are shown in . Specifically a method for microbeam radiotherapy can comprise identifying a region of interest ROI for irradiation e.g. target T and aligning the ROI with a radiation field. For instance aligning the ROI can comprise positioning object O on a patient bed and aligning the region of interest of object O to be irradiated such as a tumor i.e. target T with a focus of x ray microbeams MB. For example a positioning device discussed above can be used to align target T with the radiation field. This alignment can be facilitated by first locating target T within object O. As discussed above this locating can be accomplished using an imaging device such as an x ray computed tomography scanner . It can be further advantageous to monitor the location of target T during the course of treatment. For example physiological motions of object O generally or target T specifically can be monitored and the operation of x ray source array can be synchronized with such physiological motions which can minimize blurring of the irradiation field due to the motions. Once the ROI has been aligned the method can further comprise determining a dose width and spacing of the radiation plane generated by x ray source array and irradiating the ROI. As discussed above either object O or x ray source array can be translated by a predetermined distance and the irradiation process can be repeated until the entire ROI is irradiated.

In summary compact systems and methods are disclosed that can generate spatially discrete x ray microbeams with planar and other geometries with high dose rate for microbeam therapy. Such microbeam radiotherapy systems and methods can provide can be used for human cancer treatment such as human external beam treatment intra operative radiation therapy brachytherapy and for preclinical cancer research on animal cancer models.

The present subject matter can be embodied in other forms without departure from the spirit and essential characteristics thereof. The embodiments described therefore are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although the present subject matter has been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within the scope of the present subject matter.

