---

title: Method and system for improved online auction
abstract: Methods and systems for improving auction-based online commerce are provided, including methods and systems for facilitating advance, rapid, accurate estimation of shipping costs between a seller and the winner of an online auction. Methods and systems include an application for facilitating seller estimation of shipping costs, including various components of shipping costs, and for providing to the buyer a shipping estimate based on the circumstances of the buyer and the auction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521642&OS=08521642&RS=08521642
owner: Paid, Inc.
number: 08521642
owner_city: Worcester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130107
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 563 051 filed Jul. 31 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 352 357 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 246 filed Apr. 15 2011 abandoned which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 755 659 filed May 30 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 237 issued Apr. 19 2011 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 106 476 filed Mar. 25 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 324 968 issued Jan. 29 2008 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of electronic commerce and more particularly to the field of online auctions.

Online auctions have become a fixture of electronic commerce. Auctions offer buyers the possibility of finding specialized goods and services antiques used items and other items that can be difficult to find in conventional stores or in other electronic commerce storefronts. Because prices are not fixed buyers can also obtain some items at significant discounts to retail list prices.

Auctions offer sellers the benefit of price competition among buyers creating markets for goods and services for which it is normally difficult to set prices.

However participants in auctions face certain difficulties. One of these difficulties is the difficulty of determining the actual cost of the item to the buyer because the actual cost includes not only the winning bid but also any shipping handling or other costs that are to be added to the bid. Uncertainty as to shipping prices has led many buyers to complain which in turn has resulted in pressure on sellers to offer various promotions such as free shipping flat rate shipping and the like. The problem with such promotions is that they can be very costly to the seller such as in cases where shipping distances are higher than expected so that the cost of shipping an item greatly exceeds a flat rate estimate. Since most auctions do not communicate the address of the buyer until the end of the auction unexpected shipping costs are a persistent problem for sellers and buyers alike. Thus a need exists for the parties to online auctions to have access to better information in advance about the real shipping costs for their items.

Provided herein are methods and systems for facilitating action based online commerce. Such methods and systems may include a rate engine for determining the cost of shipping an item from a location designated by a seller to a location designated by a buyer the rate engine comprising an insurance rate calculator a carrier rate calculator and a packaging calculator. Such methods and systems may further include a retrieval application for retrieving auction data via a communication network and a calculation module for automatically determining a shipping cost for the item upon conclusion of the auction based on data from the rate engine and the retrieval application.

It should be noted that the term auction is used herein to describe a situation where a seller offers goods online via a bidding process however it should be understood that where context permits it should be understood to further encompass other methods by which a seller offers goods or services such as a reverse auction or a direct online product offering. Thus a seller could build a shipping calculator into a product offering through an online store allowing a buyer for example to estimate shipping costs for a combined order based on the weights of the various items. Thus the term auction should not be understood to be limiting except where context requires it.

Referring to a schematic diagram is provided depicting entities that participate in an online auction . A seller presents items to be sold in the online auction which may be hosted by an auction host . One or more buyers bid on the items according to the rules of the auction host typically resulting in the highest bid winning the auction at the close of a predetermined time period. Online auctions are well known including those where the auction host is eBay Yahoo.com Ubid.com Amazon.com or many others.

Referring to in a typical marketplace there are multiple online auctions hosted by multiple auction hosts with multiple sellers and multiple buyers . Thus a given buyer typically participates in more than one auction perhaps involving more than one seller . Similarly a given seller may wish to sell more than one item in more than one auction . Certain auction hosts are known for hosting generalized auctions of almost any kind of goods and services. In other cases auction hosts specialize in particular goods or services such as sports memorabilia. Thus a given seller may use different auction hosts for different auctions depending on the needs of a particular auction.

Referring to a flow diagram depicts steps by which a typical online auction takes place. First at a step a seller identifies an item that the seller wishes to auction. Next at a step the seller selects an auction provider such as eBay. Next at a step the seller creates a description of the item to be auctioned typically a combination of words and pictures that depict the details of the item. At a step the seller sets various auction parameters such as the dates of the auction the minimum price the seller will accept for the goods as well as other factors such as whether the seller is willing to pay shipping costs to ship outside a given region and the like. These parameters are typically entered via a conventional computer data entry mechanism such as a web based form such as one created in HTML or a similar markup language like dynamic HTML or the like. The form contains the relevant data fields for setting auction parameters and when submitted by the seller to the auction host through an online submission mechanism the servers of the auction host recognize the form and facilitate creation of the auction at a step . Such steps are conventional in online auctions and are typically created by CGI scripts or similar coding mechanisms for recognizing HTTP messages and executing appropriate actions.

Once the seller has created the auction at the step the auction can be found online at a site hosted by the host . At a step the seller can observe the auction until it terminates either with one or more winning buyers who have at least met the seller s minimum price for the item or with no winner. Once one or more winners have been determined at a step the seller interacts with the winning buyer to complete the transaction. This interaction conventionally requires a communication between seller and buyer such as an exchange of emails a telephone call or the like. The transaction step may include various sub steps such as the seller communicating shipping options to the buyer the buyer sending address information to the seller and the buyer making payment to the seller . At a step the buyer pays for the item. To complete the transaction the seller ships the item to the buyer or directs shipment to the buyer from a third party at a step . The shipping step may involve an additional charge for the buyer or for the seller or for both.

The conventional online auctions described in conjunction with do not offer the buyer complete information about the real cost of the auction because they do not specify exact shipping cost information. Referring to an improved auction method and system includes a shipping calculator . The shipping calculator can be included in the display for the auction item itself. The shipping calculator can prompt a potential buyer to enter information necessary to determine shipping cost. In an embodiment that information may include entry of a zip code of the buyer in a zip code field of the display . When the buyer enters the zip code information in the zip code field the buyer may then initiate the shipping calculator by clicking a display button such as a calculate button . As used herein the term zip code should be understood to include other location information such as origin codes in other countries international postal codes addresses country codes or the like.

Referring to triggering the calculate button of sends a message such as an HTTP message to a server which can in turn present a more detailed shipping calculator to the buyer as an HTML form. In addition to the zip code or other location code in that field the shipping calculator now includes an item identification field in which the buyer may enter an auction number or similar identifier for the item that the buyer is considering for bid and an anticipated winning bid field in which the buyer enters the expected amount the buyer expects to have to pay in order to win the auction . The buyer can then hit a second calculate button to initiate further calculation. As with other web based services hitting the calculate button submits an HTML form with the relevant data for further action by a server such as an HTTP server. The actions of a system for facilitating the shipping calculator are described further below. As further described below it should be noted that the shipping calculator could be embodied in various forms using various software models and business models. For example the calculator could be provided as a client program to be downloaded onto the user s machine as a application service provider ASP application accessed by a computer network from the user s machine or a combination of the same.

Referring to the shipping calculator returns a page with a display that now contains relevant shipping information. The shipping information includes a sub total sales tax information and shipping and handling cost . The shipping and handling cost may be calculated in a manner described below. The buyer may select various options from a drop down menu so that the buyer can choose among for example ground shipping versus air or postal service versus overnight carrier service. Thus the shipping calculator provides the buyer with an accurate estimate of shipping cost based on the location of the buyer the cost of the item and the manner of shipment.

Referring still to the calculator may feature a tab . By initiating the tab the buyer can view all of the auctions that the buyer is monitoring or in an embodiment all auctions involving the same seller. Where there are multiple auctions for the same buyer and seller the system can track that fact and provide a consolidated shipping calculation based on the assumption that multiple items may be shipped together rather than separately. The all my auctions tab can through the retrieval module capture current data for each auction and refresh the view to reflect accurate data for all current auctions.

Referring to the shipping calculator may have other features. For example an information field may provide the buyer with information about the auction such as information as to the status of the anticipated winning bid as compared to the current highest bid. Similarly a refresh button allows the buyer to update the anticipated winning bid field to reflect the current highest bid for the auction in question rather than the buyer s estimate of the likely bid. Then pressing the recalculate button allows the buyer to obtain the cost of shipping that would apply if the current highest bid were the actual winning bid. Although these are web enabled steps it should be noted that the calculator can be embodied as an offline client based application that doesn t require the round trips to a web server. Such a client application could be coded in Java ActiveX or a similar code that is downloaded to the client. In other embodiments the system may access an application programming interface of an auction host such as an API that is needed to interact with the auction. The API could require programming in any language and could require the application to provide specific calls in order to obtain the data it requires to complete a shipping rate calculation. The system could also be employed through a virtual private network or VPN. Thus one of ordinary skill in the art could readily recognize various embodiments for coding the shipping calculator system .

In order for a buyer to have access to the shipping calculator a seller may provide the calculator as part of the auction . Referring to a flow diagram depicts the steps by which a seller can facilitate the provision of the calculator for an auction . First at a step the seller must acquire the capability to build the shipping calculator into the seller s auctions. Thus the seller acquires access to a shipping calculator system . In embodiments the system may include a builder application in a shipping wizard server which may be a web based application coded in a language such as PHP so that the seller can access the system and the builder application in a shipping wizard server via the Internet or a similar computer network. Once the seller has access to the shipping calculator system the seller may enter various information such as identity and location information at a step shipping preferences at a step insurance preferences at a step shipping locations at a step and other shipping parameters such as packaging information at a step . In embodiments all of this information is entered into fields via an online form such as an HTML form served by a server of the shipping calculator system . In other embodiments the information is entered into a downloaded client program or the program is served through an ASP model. Details of an embodiment of the shipping calculator system are set forth below. Once all of this data is entered by the seller the system can take advantage of it to generate shipping calculations for various auctions offered by the seller in a manner further described below.

Referring to a schematic diagram sets out high level components for a computer based shipping calculator system . The system may be operated by a host entity for assisting various sellers in providing improved online auctions such as by an auction host or another entity. The system may include one or more modules and other elements. In particular the system may include a communication facility for allowing it to communicate via an external communication network such as the Internet or worldwide web. The communication facility might in some embodiments be an application programming interface for allowing the system to interact with a third party system such as an auction host s system or it might be a virtual private network or other known communication facility. Thus the communication facility may take whatever form is required for the system to retrieve data from various external sources such as the auction auction host shipping carrier postal service or the like. Each of those external sources may have a different requirement in order to exchange data and the communication facility may be configured in a conventional way to allow data exchange.

The system may further include various conventional computer system elements such as an operating system one or more software applications and one or more data storage facilities . The operating system may be a conventional one such as a Unix or Linux based operating system or a Windows based operating system such as provided by Microsoft. The applications may include conventional computer software applications such as those for data manipulation and retrieval communications and the like. The various other modules may be provided in software hardware firmware or a combination of the same but are in one embodiment software modules coded in a language such as PHP or an object oriented language such as Java or C . The data storage facility may be a conventional database facility such as Microsoft SQL server and Oracle database or an open source data storage facility.

In addition to conventional system components the shipping calculator system may include specialized modules or components. In particular the system may include a rate engine for calculating shipping rates based on various inputs. The rate engine may interact with other system components including a retrieval module a shipping wizard server a shipping rate server and one or more rate databases . The rate engine interacts with those other modules to obtain inputs it requires in order to make a rate calculation. The retrieval module acts through the communication facility to obtain data from an external source such as from a web page through a spider or similar facility or from a third party system through an application programming interface or the like. In particular the retrieval module can obtain auction data from an auction that is identified by a buyer or seller during their interaction with the shipping calculator . For example the retrieval module can obtain the amount of the winning bid the current high bid the location of the buyer the number of unique visitors the number of hits to the auction and the like from the web site that hosts the option. This can be accomplished by extracting values from form elements in the HTML or other markup language that is used by the auction provider to code the presentation of the auction.

The shipping wizard server may be a conventional server programmed to facilitate the interaction of a user who wishes to be a seller with the system . The shipping wizard server can serve various pages to the seller allowing the seller to interact with the system through forms and similar mechanisms. The pages for the shipping wizard server can be stored for retrieval in the data storage facility . The shipping wizard server thus facilitates the steps identified elsewhere herein for enabling a seller to interact with the system to create an auction to insert a shipping calculator in the auction and to set various preferences for shipping for the seller s various auctions. The shipping wizard server can interact with the rate engine to supply it with data for making a rate calculation in particular data about the location of the seller and data about the seller s various shipping preferences and requirements.

The shipping rate server may also be a conventional server and in fact may be part of a single integrated server with it . In this case the shipping rate server acts to facilitate interaction of a buyer with the system . Thus the shipping rate server presents pages code for which is stored in the data storage facility to the buyer that include forms for data entry as well as those for presenting the buyer with estimates of shipping costs for the auction in question. The shipping rate server can interact with the rate engine to supply it with data needed to make a shipping rate calculation such as the buyer s location the auction number in question and preferences for how the item should be shipped.

The rate databases may contain shipping rate information. In embodiments these databases may be provided for the system from third party providers such as carriers who provide shipping. The rate databases may reside outside the system or may be imported into the system depending on what the third party provider is willing to provide. Examples include databases of shipping rates for the postal service UPS Federal Express Emery and any other shipping providers with tables for calculating shipping costs based on weights shipping locations and other factors that determine the rate charged for a shipment. Interaction with these rate databases may be accomplished through a variety of APIs or other inputs. Thus the system may require coding to allow it access to the rates in the rate databases . In other embodiments the rate databases may be coded directly by the user of the system using publicly available information about shipping rates. The rate engine can access the relevant rate database to obtain a shipping rate for a given auction.

The rate engine may include various modules or engines for calculating factors that contribute to the overall shipping rate for a given auction. By way of example the rate engine may include a shipping rate engine a tax rate engine an insurance rate engine a packaging algorithm engine and a fee based rate engine . These are by way of example and in embodiments other factors that contribute to shipping can be handled by additional modules or engines of the rate engine .

For the packaging algorithm engine a seller can specify an item as prepackaged or not and can specify for items whether they can be packaged together with other items. This data can be stored in the data storage facility . A seller can determine a limit to the total package e.g. a weight limit. It is also possible for the seller to provide a volume based algorithm based on the volume of the items and the volume of the boxes or other packaging types to determine whether items can be packaged together. A seller might also indicate the number of items that are to be packed together for a given type. Thus the packaging algorithm engine allows the seller to customize packing preferences for the seller s items. In embodiments the algorithms may also provide for three dimensional packaging calculations. The algorithms can also apply fees based on the type of box or carton that is used for packaging. For example a hockey stick might require a box that costs a significant amount relative to the weight of the item. An oversized item might be one that exceeds a length a length and width thereby increasing the cost. Therefore packaging is an important factor in shipping cost. Thus a two pound hockey stick is shipped as a thirty pound item based on dimensional weight calculations used by the post office and common carriers. The packaging algorithm engine determines the appropriate packaging based on the seller s preferences and the size weight or shape of the item and it applies an appropriate factor to the shipping rate based on the size and weight of the packaging.

The fee based rate engine calculates rates based on seller inputs such as rates charged for shipping and handling above the rates from the common carriers. In an embodiment a seller may wish to charge a flat rate for shipping or a flat rate per item shipped. The fee based rate engine can access the seller s preferences which are stored in the data storage facility and apply the appropriate flat rate or other fee based rate for the shipment. For example if the packaging algorithm engine determines that three items will be shipped together and the seller has indicated that it will charge a flat rate for a first item and a different flat rate for each additional item then the fee based rate engine can calculate and retrieve the appropriate flat rate for shipping three items from that seller by adding the rate for the first item to two times the rate for each additional item.

In other embodiments rather than charging a flat fee or a fee set in advance by the seller the system may need to calculate a rate based on other factors such as rates charged by common carriers weights package sizes distances and the like. The shipping rate engine can calculate a rate for a shipment based on inputs such as the distance between the seller location and the buyer location the weight of the item the weight of any packaging and the method of shipment. These various inputs can be obtained from the retrieval module the servers other modules and the rate databases . The shipping rate engine thus calculates a basic shipping rate for the item once all of the inputs are placed in it.

The tax rate engine determines what taxes may apply to the auction based on inputs from the retrieval module and the shipping wizard server. In an embodiment the shipping calculator may be part of an overall auction management system that stores information for a buyer. In such an embodiment the system can store a tax exemption certificate for buyer and determine not to charge the buyer tax on a transaction that would otherwise be taxable.

The insurance rate engine calculates a cost of insurance to be added to the overall shipping rate based on the preferences of the buyer and seller as expressed in their completion of forms served by the servers as well as insurance rates stored in the rate databases .

The rate engine can integrate the inputs from the calculations of the other modules and engines applying whatever discounts or other factors are required if components are not simply added to obtain a shipping rate based on the various inputs. The rate may be a flat rate from the fee based engine a rate calculated from the other engines or a rate from a combination of the different types of calculation.

The system may be provided by a host for access by various entities such as sellers buyers and auction hosts . Alternatively it might be licensed to and provided directly by an auction host . In other embodiments it might be accessed by one or more entities in an ASP business model. Such embodiments may be accomplished using appropriate facilities for coding such models including XML WDDX Java RMI or the like.

Referring to a flow diagram depicts steps by which a seller can take advantage of the system to offer a shipping calculator in the seller s auctions. First at a step the seller identifies an item to be auctioned just as in a conventional auction. Next at a step the seller initiates interaction with the system such as by initiating a shipping calculator wizard served by the shipping wizard server . The shipping wizard prompts the seller to enter various information needed to determine shipping costs such as the seller s preferences for providers packaging preferences and weights taxability of transactions insurance preferences modes of shipment and the like. Many of these items may be stored in default and need not be reentered for every new transaction. Once the seller has completed the wizard the seller can select an auction provider at a step create an item description at a step and set auction parameters at a step in each case in a manner similar to for a conventional auction. The seller can can immediately look at a test auction at the point the seller has completed the wizard which can pop up a view of the auction in a separate window. Based on the values entered in the wizard the seller can also click on a shipping inspector which provides a detailed breakout view of the specific values used to determine the shipping cost.

Next at a step the seller can insert the shipping calculator code into the auction. In an embodiment this is accomplished by having the seller insert code for the shipping calculator into the HTML for the auction document. Once inserted into the HTML for the auction the calculator will automatically contact the system when initiated by a buyer . The seller can then create an auction at a step and observe the results at a step just as for a conventional auction. When the auction is complete the system can determine the winner such as via the retrieval module and make the appropriate calculation to inform the seller and buyer of the cost of shipping based on the winning bid the locations of the seller which may include multiple drop ship locations of third parties for example and buyer e.g. items going to one or more locations the weight of the items packaging factors taxes and the like. At a step the seller and buyer may complete the transaction and the seller can ship the item in the manner identified by the buyer . In an embodiment this may be accomplished without the need for the buyer to enter further information since all information can be retrieved from the auction itself or from the buyer s previous interactions with the rate calculator .

Referring to a flow diagram includes steps by which a seller may enter preferences as to shipping in interaction with the shipping rate wizard server . The seller initiates the shipping wizard at a step . Next at a step the seller enters shipper data such as the name and shipping locations for that seller . Next the seller can enter items the seller may ship at a step . Next at a step the seller can enter item weights and packaging preferences including package weights in some cases for items the seller will auction. The steps and may be optional at this point. That is the system can automatically update the system with new items and weights at the time they are listed rather than in advance. Next at a step the seller can enter locations from which shipments can be made. Next at a step the seller can enter any fee preferences such as a desire to apply a handling fee to all shipments and the amount. Next at a step the seller can enter shipping type preferences such as a preference for next day air shipment ground shipment postal service or the like. Next at a step the seller can enter insurance preferences. Next at a step the seller can enter other preferences including any custom preferences the system wishes to allow. Through completion of these steps the seller establishes a set of default preferences that can be retrieved for a given auction for the seller during setup and later upon completion of the auction. Many other options and properties can be included in the wizard calculator such as quantities of items and other shipping option parameters.

In an embodiment a buyer can register at the site and receive preferred shipping rates. Based on the buyer s address it can be verified through a verification process in interaction with a database of known addresses through an API provided for example by the postal service. It is more expensive to ship to a residential address with many carriers. So the calculator can generally assume a residential rate. With address verification it is possible to quote commercial rates where appropriate. The seller doesn t know who the buyer is but the buyer can still receive the best available rate.

In an embodiment if a buyer registers with the host they do not need to reregister when they win an auction. The information is sent to the seller automatically by the system.

Referring to a flow diagram depicts steps by which the system facilitates a buyer s interaction with an auction that has been established with the shipping calculator . First at a step the buyer can visit the auction such as by visiting the web site of an auction provider . Next at a step the buyer can use the shipping calculator by entering a zip code or other location code or information and clicking the submit button on the page. Next at a step the system identifies which auction host has referred the auction as determined by tracking the URL at which the buyer resided before the buyer was referred to the system a tracking feature common to most conventional browsers . Where the tracking feature does not provide the identity of the auction provider the buyer is prompted to enter an auction number so that the system can retrieve data from the appropriate auction. Once the system has identified the auction host and auction the system checks at a step whether this is the first buyer to use the calculator for this particular auction. If so then at a step the system populates the data storage facility with data for this auction including the item its weight the current highest bid and the like. The data can be retrieved later for further shipping rate calculations for this auction such as if another buyer uses the calculator for that auction. If at the step the user is not the first user then the system goes directly to a step where the system gets the current highest bid then a step where the system calculates the shipping rate or hypothetical shipping rate if the auction is not over based on the data for the auction including the current bid the data entered by the seller and the location and shipping preferences of the buyer . Then at a step the system serves a page to the buyer with an indication of the shipping rate.

Referring to a flow diagram sets out steps by which the system can determine a shipping rate. At a step the system initiates the rate engine such as in response to a buyer clicking on the calculator . Next at a step the system retrieves the seller s shipping preferences from the data storage facility .

In embodiments the system can recognize when a given buyer has purchased multiple items from a given seller and it can prompt the seller to combine the items into a single shipment. The system can then apply the rate calculation to the combined shipment rather than making separate calculations for all shipments. Thus at a step the system determines whether there are multiple items to be shipped from the seller to this buyer . This may be accomplished by retrieving the data that the buyer views when clicking the all my auctions tab . If there are multiple items at the step then at a step the system retrieves data for the first item s auction either previously stored in the data storage facility if a buyer has used the calculator for this auction before or by accessing the data in the auction directly such as by a spider or API. At a step the system determines whether the item for which the data was retrieved at the step is the last item. If not then the system returns to the step repeatedly until data for all items has been retrieved for use by the system. If at the step it is determined that there is only one item or if at the step it is determined that the item is the last item then processing proceeds to a step .

At the step the system queries the seller s preferences to determine whether the shipping rate is a fee based rate. If so then at a step the system applies the fee based rate whether based on a single item shipping charge or a multiple item shipping charge. Next at a step the system applies the preferences of the seller to determine whether the rate is solely fee based or whether other factors apply. If at the step no other factors apply then the system can serve a rate for the rate calculator at a step .

If at the step it is determined that other factors apply or if at the step it is determined that the rate is not a fee based rate then processing proceeds to a step where the packaging algorithm is applied by the packaging algorithm engine . The packaging algorithm engine at the step determines the packaging for the item or items that are to be shipped from the seller to the buyer . Packaging may be standard for the seller s items may be pre specified or may be determined by calculations based on the size or weight of the items or in special cases the shape such as a hockey stick that requires a special box . Once packaging has been determined the system can proceed to calculate a shipping rate based on various factors.

At a step the system can then determine the locations of the seller and the buyer based on data entered in interaction with the servers of the system . At the step the system can also calculate and store a rate factor based on the locations of the buyer and seller . Next the system can query at a step whether weight is a factor in the calculation. If so then the system can at a step calculate and store a weight factor for the item optionally including package weight for packaged items . Next at a step the system can query whether taxes apply and at a step calculate and store a tax factor. Next at a step the system can query whether insurance charges apply. If so then the system can calculate and store an insurance factor for the item at a step . Next the system queries whether there is a handling charge by the seller at a step . The system can then calculate and store a handling factor at a step .

Once all of the factors are determined then the system can calculate a rate at a step . The calculation may be a simple addition or it may combine factors according to any algorithm used to determine cost of shipping. For example shipping may be free if the buyer is within a given distance of the seller if the order is over 100 or if the order is within a time frame. The system can recognize and apply this to the overall rate based on the location factor at the step .

In embodiments the system can track where buyers are coming from to determine where the greatest interest is for a given auction item. Thus the host can surmise demographic information.

Referring to an illustration is provided of a screen for a seller who wishes to use the system . The seller can administer his or her interaction with the system through the screen . The seller can access instructions for listing an auction. The seller can also monitor auction and sales activity for the seller s auctions through a link . The seller can also access a wizard for inserting the shipping calculator into the auction. The seller can also set up shipping preferences through the link or can access the shipping calculator .

Referring to an illustration is provided of a screen that may be provided if the seller asks for listing instructions at the link of . The listing instructions indicate steps for including a shipping calculator in an auction of an auction provider including steps of including HTML generated by a wizard into the item description for an auction making sure that shipping sections for an item reference the item description checking for accuracy and testing the calculator before placing the HTML in the auction listing . As indicated on the screen the listing mechanisms are not limited to a particular auction provider but rather can be used with any auction provider still providing appropriate rate calculations. The seller can also reference the shipping inspector to confirm that the underlying items in the rate calculation are correct.

Referring to a screen is illustrated as an example of a wizard that could be initiated by clicking on the wizard link of . The wizard provides a form by which the seller can enter data into fields needed to facilitate generation of code for inclusion in an auction listing. The wizard includes a drop down menu through which the seller can select a particular format for how the calculator will appear on the screen. The wizard also includes a field for entering a flat shipping rate for a first item and a field for entering a flat shipping rate for each additional item. These rates can be triggered if the seller enters a check mark in a box that indicates the seller wishes to charge a flat shipping rate. If the seller does not wish to charge a flat shipping rate then the seller can enter data in other fields to calculate a shipping rate. Through a drop down menu the seller can indicate whether to package items together if a buyer wins more than one of the seller s auctions. The seller can also enter the weight of the item into a weight field and the dimensions of the item into a length field width field and height field . The seller can also indicate whether the item is taxable in a tax field an whether to include insurance in an insurance field . Then the seller can generate HTML for inclusion into the auction listing by clicking a generate HTML button which prompts the shipping wizard server of the system to build and serve the HTML for the listing to the seller . The seller can then paste HTML into the item description of the auction which will in turn include the rate calculator in that auction with the rates being calculated based on the preference the seller entered in the wizard .

In embodiments there are other shipping options. For example the post office has a media rate for bound printed matter. You may specify that such a rate is required. Some items might require special handling such as if not in a carton. The rate calculator can account for these factors as well.

The items entered into the wizard depicted in need not be entered again for every auction of the seller . In embodiments the seller can configure shipping options by setting default values for each of the fields in a form that is stored for the seller in the data storage facility . In that case the wizard only needs to prompt the seller to enter values for which the seller does not wish to vary the default values. Any of the fields of can be stored as default values for the seller . In addition other values can be stored such as shipping methods. Referring to a screen shows fields for a seller to set default values for various shipping methods. The seller can indicate that it wishes to activate a shipping method by clicking one of the activate buttons . The seller can then enter a handling charge for each type of shipping in each of the handling charge fields . The system stores these values so that when a buyer clicks on the shipping calculator in the seller s auction of an item the handling charge is added to the rate calculated by the rate calculator for that item based on the type of shipping selected by the buyer .

Referring to a screen shows that a seller can configure the system to calculate packaging weight based on the weight of the item to be packaged.

Referring to a screen shows that tax rates can be stored for purposes of determining taxes that apply to the auction. The system can recognize the difference between interstate and intrastate shipments an adjust taxes accordingly.

Thus the system allows a seller to register set up preferences and generate HTML code that will be embedded into an auction listing page. The buyer then enters a zip code into a calculator that is created through the HTML and the system calculates a shipping rate based on the seller data buyer data and auction data. At the time the auction is created the system does not require storage of any data other than the shipping preferences of the seller .

Storage of seller preferences has a number of advantages. Conventional systems require a seller to reenter shipping data each time an auction is created resulting in a great deal of extra labor. With the wizard described herein the system analyzes seller preferences and only requires the seller to enter a limited set of data unless the seller wishes to vary default preferences.

Each time a seller wishes to run an auction the seller only needs to pull up the wizard and generate HTML for inclusion in the auction listing of the item the seller wishes to sell. When a buyer uses the calculator information is transmitted from the buyer s browser to the system . The system can take the information and through the retrieval module return to the site that hosts the auction inspect the auction retrieve what information is needed from the HTML of the auction and construct all of the data needed to make a rate calculation. Use of the retrieval module allows the system to be used with any listing tool. Thus the system is platform independent working with any web based auction provider. The system only needs to be programmed to recognize the appropriate form fields in the forms for the auction. For example the system may look for a value in the shipcalc field in the HTML form for an eBay auction or a different value in a different field for another auction. The system retrieves all values in the relevant fields and returns them to server as a basis for a rate calculation.

To identify the auction from which the buyer is using the calculator the system identifies a URL sent by the browser when the buyer hits the calculate button. The referrer URL is sent as a feature of Netscape Explorer and other conventional browsers. In some browsers the referrer URL is disabled or not provided in which case the user is prompted for an auction number and provider which allows the system to retrieve the data it needs.

When a buyer arrives via the calculate button at the host system the system gets the item or auction number from the page at which the buyer was before arriving. The system then inspects the data storage facility to see whether it has inspected that auction before. If so it uses the stored data. If not then it gathers the information from the page and stores it.

Once the system has the information for the auction can place a persistent cookie on the buyer s machine allowing the system to recognize the buyer upon return to the system . The cookie can allow the system to track values such as the current high bid or winning bid that occur in the auction and update the buyer s calculator to reflect the changes. Thus the system can automatically update a buyer s view of an auction and the shipping calculation to reflect the current status of the auction.

The system also allows a seller to edit mistakes. The seller can go to the system and edit an auction to correct errors such as item weights and the like. As the buyer enters the auction the buyer can get a message saying the seller needs to review the auction before shipping quotes are finalized.

In an embodiment the system can access a database of addresses to determine whether a given address is a commercial or residential address. Thus the system can apply commercial or non commercial rates as appropriate for the type of shipment based on the address of the recipient. This can be accomplished using an API provided by the postal service.

In embodiments the seller can allow drop shipment from multiple locations with the calculator determining the best location for a shipment given the location of the buyer.

In embodiments the shipping calculator may be part of a larger system that offers auction management capabilities such as tracking status email notification of auction results automated fulfillment of shipping and automated notification to the parties of tracking information for shipments. For example after an auction is completed a buyer can check out and can be integrated with any payment provider e.g. Paypal . Thus the shipping calculator can be part of an integrated commerce system. After winning the buyer can come to the system and through a checkout process that uses the shipping calculator to determine the shipping charges that will apply for the transaction.

All patents patent applications and other documents referenced herein are hereby incorporated by reference. While the disclosure has been described in connection with certain preferred embodiments other embodiments would be readily understood by those of ordinary skill in the art and are intended to be encompassed herein.

