---

title: Selective review of bundled messages from a wireless communication device
abstract: A system, method, and computer device that allow a wireless communication device to selectively bundle messages in an access channel communication packet being sent to another computer device on the wireless communication network, such as a base station are disclosed. The bundled messages are typically sent in response to a request sent to the wireless communication device for response to a specific event, such as the setup of a group communication call. The receiving computer device determines if the access channel communication packet contains data indicating one or more bundled messages are therewithin such that resources only then will expended to review the bundled messages to check for the availability of the requested resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09198006&OS=09198006&RS=09198006
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09198006
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130109
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 212 490 entitled SELECTIVE REVIEW OF BUNDLED MESSAGES FROM A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed Sep. 17 2008 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 974 840 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SELECTIVE REVIEW OF BUNDLED MESSAGES FROM A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE filed Sep. 24 2007 each of which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for selectively reviewing messages that may be bundled in a transmission from a wireless communication device.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

For PTT communications it is desirous to minimize the call setup time or otherwise the latency can stall the communication or cause a false floor grant when one or more target mobile devices did not have resources available for the PTT call. If the PTT system utilizes existing cellular network infrastructure the existing call signaling methods based upon standard traffic channel setup often prove too slow for a fully responsive PTT communication system.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method to expedite PTT communication setup with a target wireless communication device given the time sensitivity of the communication. The system and method should be able to allow for multiple messages being sent as quickly as possible which will expedite the PTT communication setup without compromising the resources of the wireless communication device or base station. It is thus to the provision of such a system and method to expedite communications from a target wireless communication device that the present invention is primarily directed.

Embodiments of the invention include a system method and computer device that allow a wireless communication device to selectively bundle messages requesting resources and send them in an access channel communication packet to other computer devices on a wireless communication network such as a base station which assists in rely of time sensitive communications. The bundled messages are typically sent in response to a request sent to the wireless communication device for response to a specific event such as the setup of a push to talk call. The receiving computer device determines if the access channel communication packet contains data indicating one or more bundled messages are therewithin before utilizing resources to review one or bundled messages and check for the availability of requested resources.

In this description the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system for with a group communication server to one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system selectively communicates to a wireless communication device for a group communication across the wireless communication network with the a group communication server configured to receive a request at to establish a group communication with at least one target wireless communication device e.g. mobile telephone and the group communication server send a request to the at least one target wireless communication device across the wireless communication network indicating an incoming group communication. An intermediate computer device such as base station controller in receives an access channel communication packet across an access channel from the at least one target wireless communication device that received the request to establish a group communication from the group communication server . The access communication packet indicates the whether or not there are bundled messages present in the packet such as messages indicating the resources for the group communication to the at least one wireless communication device . Through the bundling of messages the wireless communication device can quickly send messages indicating the ability to handle the incoming communication without the other computer device such as base station needing to examine all messages send from the wireless communication device for bundled messages.

The group communication can be voice applications graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like or audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . Also the group communication is typically half duplex audio conferencing among members of the communication group .

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service providers packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN and or a broadcast serving node shown here resident as on a carrier network . Each PSDN or BSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the base transceiver station sometimes referred to as branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct communications will occur through or be at the control of the group communication server . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device typically for the half duplex voice communication in a PTT call. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The system provides a mechanism for the base station controller to search for the bundled messages within an access channel communication packet from a target wireless communication device only when necessary and when received the base station controller will check the availability of the requested resources. If the requested resources are not available the base station controller remarks the differentiated service code point DSCP of the IP header of the access channel communication packet and forwards the packet to the PDSN . The group communication server reads the DSCP value of the call request packet and takes appropriate actions according to the value i.e. determines if the target wireless communication device for the group communication is available.

In the evolution data optimized EV DO standard for wireless communications a data over signaling DOS message is defined as a transport mechanism to deliver short application packets over the Access Channel AC or Control Channel CC between the base station and mobile telecommunication device.

In one embodiment at the time of initial call set up request the base station controller can send the request to the wireless communication device as encapsulated in a DOS message and send it over the AC to the wireless communication device since the message is short and very delay sensitive. In such a case the DOS message is expected to be bundled with other messages that request resources for an upcoming PTT call. For example in the EV DO standard in order to request Traffic Channel TCH resources with a certain quality of service QoS requirement the wireless communication device can bundle the DOS message with a Connection Request message and the ReservationOnRequest message in the same access probe to the base station. In another example the wireless communication device can bundle the DOS message with a BCMCSFlowRegistration message to request broadcast channel BCH resources.

In one embodiment existing headers for the access channel communication packet as defined in the EV DO standard are used. Specifically both the multi flow packet application MFPA and enhanced multi flow packet application EMFPA DOS headers contain the reset field. According to the standard this one bit field must be always set to 0 for a mobile originated DOS since the reset operation can be initiated only by the base station controller . Here the wireless communication device will set this field to 1 in order to request the base station controller to read the bundled messages before forwarding the access channel communication packet to the PDSN . When the base station controller receives a DOS message from the wireless communication device it first looks at the reset field to determine if it needs to read the bundled messages. If the reset 0 the base station controller just forwards the DOS payload to the PDSN for ultimate transmission either directly or indirectly to the group communication server . If reset 1 the base station controller searches for the bundled messages and checks the availability of the requested resources. For instance if a BCMCSFlowRegistration message was bundled the base station controller checks the availability of the broadcast channel resources. If the resources are available the base station controller simply forwards the packet to the PDSN without changing the DSCP value. If not the base station controller changes the DSCP value of the IP header of the packet to a specific value indicating unavailability of the requested resources. It then forwards the DOS payload to the PDSN which ultimately notifies or is sent to the group communication server .

In another embodiment the base station controller can search for the bundled messages whenever it receives a DOS message from the wireless communication device . This doesn t require the wireless communication device to indicate the presence of the bundled messages using the reset field. In this case however the base station controller need to check the presence of bundled messages for every DOS message received from the wireless communication device . The base station controller determines a message is bundled with the DOS message if it is received within a certain time distance from the reception of the DOS message.

The target PTT Client will receive the incoming call announcement and verify that it has the resources available to participate in the PTT call. The target PTT Client sends an acknowledgement to the GCS indicating that the resources are or are not available through modification of the header of the access channel communication packet as shown in the embodiment described above. For purposes of illustration here it is assumed that the target PTT client does have resources available. Once the access channel communication packet is received from the target PTT Client the BSC reviews the header to see of examination of the bundled messages therein is warranted and if not remark the DSCP in the IP header of the call accept message before forwarding the message to the GCS . The GCS determines if the target device is available and if so sends the floor grant to the originating PTT Client which indicates the call is being established and the PTT Client can start talking often with an audible beep to the user of the device . Then the GCS will handle the PTT communication and send it to the target device PTT client .

At the target wireless communication device as shown in the request is received indicating the setup of the PTT communication as shown at step and then a determination is made as to whether bundled messages will be needed to generate a response as shown at decision . If the bundled messages are needed at decision the access channel communication packet header is modified to indicate that bundled messages are present and that packet is sent to the base station such as altering the reset bit as described above as shown at step . Otherwise if there is no need to send bundled messages at decision then the target wireless communication device sends and access channel communication packet indicating no bundled messages as shown at step to the base station .

At the base station which is in a wait state at decision waiting for a response from the target wireless device once the access channel communication packet is received at decision a determination is then made as to whether bundled messages are present in the access channel communication packet as shown at decision . In one embodiment this determination is examining the header data of the access channel communication packet to set if the reset bit is flipped by the target wireless communication device indicating that the messages within the packet should be examined and that the resources for the PTT are probably not available. If bundled messages are present at decision then the access channel communication packet is searched for messages as shown at step . Then and if there are no bundled messages indicated at decision the appropriate acknowledgment from the target wireless communication device is sent ultimately to the group communications server . It should be noted that other computer devices and pathway of the packet or message from the base station to the group communication server can be used in the present system. In one embodiment if the resources of the target wireless device are available the acknowledgement is sent to the group communication server that the target wireless communication device is ready for the PTT call. Here the notice is preferably sent to the group communication server so that the floor can be granted to the originating wireless communication device.

It can thus be seen that system provides in one embodiment an inventive method for bundling of messages send from a target wireless communication device through using an access channel communication packet that includes a header thereof. The computer device such as base station receives a request to communicate to the wireless computer device such as a PTT call from a group communication server . Then sending an access communication packet from the at least one target wireless communication device across an access channel on the wireless communication network indicating the presence of bundled messages within the packet and receiving the access channel communication packet at an another computer device such as base station . If the data in the access channel communication packet indicates the presence of bundled messages then the other computer device will examine the packet for the bundled messages.

In one embodiment sending a group communication is establishing a half duplex voice communication broadcast channel. If the access channel communication packet includes a header containing a plurality of signaling bits the method will then include changing one or more bits of the signaling bits to indicate the presence of bundled messages. Further the wireless communication device can send the access channel communication packet to the base station . The method can include the group communication server not permitting the group communication if resources to the at least one target wireless communication device are not available. Alternately the group communication server can selectively ignore indication that resources are not available for the group communication to the at least one target and permit the group communication.

Further the determination as to resources being available can be determining if the establishment of a traffic channel to the at least one target wireless communication device for the group communication is possible. The intermediate computer device can also send the request to the at least one target wireless communication device indicating an incoming group communication through a control channel to the at least one target wireless communication device . In one embodiment the intermediate computer device can determine if resources are available for the traffic channel.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

