---

title: Angiotensin in treating brain conditions
abstract: The present invention provides, among other things, methods and compositions for treating brain conditions. In some embodiments, the methods include administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to a brain condition an angiotensin (1-7) peptide via either an intravenous or subcutaneous route of administration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511055&OS=09511055&RS=09511055
owner: Tarix Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
number: 09511055
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130517
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 752 202 filed Jan. 28 2013 which claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 708 793 filed Oct. 2 2012 and U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 720 299 filed Oct. 30 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present specification makes reference to a Sequence Listing submitted electronically as a .txt file named 2009912 0053 ST25 on Jan. 28 2012. The .txt file was generated on Jan. 28 2013 and is 11 kb in size. The entire contents of the Sequence Listing are herein incorporated by reference.

Proper functioning of the central nervous system is essential in any animal. Damage to the brain in particular such as through an ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke can have dramatic and potentially deadly effects. One obstacle to treatment or prevention of brain damaging events is the blood brain barrier which is a collection of tight junctions between neighboring capillary endothelial cells of the brain. These junctions prevent most substances from crossing unless they are either highly lipophilic or specifically transported across the blood brain barrier. As a result it is extremely difficult to administer therapeutics via traditionally preferred routes such as through an intravenous or subcutaneous administration and observe a therapeutic effect in the brain.

The present invention provides among other things methods and compositions for treating brain conditions including but not limited to stroke vascular dementia and traumatic brain injury. As described in the Examples section below the present invention is in part based on the surprising discovery that systemic administration such as subcutaneous administration of an angiotensin 1 7 peptide e.g. PanCyte results in improvement of neurological and motor function in a rat model of ischemic stroke. Prior to the present invention it was believed that angiotensin 1 7 would not cross the blood brain barrier and thus had to be administered intracerebrovascularly ICV or using complex methods such as infection of hematopoietic stem cells which are capable of crossing the blood brain barrier with a lentivirus that causes overexpression of Ang 1 7 . Mecca et al. Cerebroprotection by Angiotensin 1 7 in Endothelin 1 Induced Ischaemic Stroke 2011 2011 96 10 1084 1096. No one had shown that administration of an angiotensin 1 7 peptide or a non peptidic Angiotensin 1 7 agonist via a systemic for example either a subcutaneous or intravenous route could result in therapeutic levels reaching the brain and in particular damaged brain tissue.

In some embodiments the invention provides methods of treating a brain condition including administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to a brain condition an angiotensin 1 7 peptide via systemic administration. In some embodiments systemic administration suitable for the present invention is intravenous administration. In some embodiments systemic administration suitable for the present invention is subcutaneous administration. In some embodiments systemic administration suitable for the present invention is oral administration. In some embodiments systemic administration suitable for the present invention does not include intracerebroventricular administration. In some embodiments the brain condition is selected from stroke vascular dementia and traumatic brain injury. In some embodiments the stroke is ischemic stroke. In some embodiments the stroke is hemorrhagic stroke.

In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered via continuous infusion. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an administration interval. For example the angiotensin 1 7 peptide may be administered three times a day twice a day once per day twice per week once per week three times per month twice per month once every two weeks once every three weeks once every four weeks once a month once every two months once every three months once every four months once every five months once every six months at an irregular interval.

It is contemplated that various embodiments may use different amounts of angiotensin 1 7 peptide. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 1 000 g kg day e.g. ranging from about 1 900 g kg day 1 800 g kg day 1 700 g kg day 1 600 g kg day 1 500 g kg day 1 400 g kg day 1 300 g kg day 1 200 g kg day 1 100 g kg day 1 90 g kg day 1 80 g kg day 1 70 g kg day 1 60 g kg day 1 50 g kg day 1 40 g kg day 1 30 g kg day 1 20 g kg day 1 10 g kg day . In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 500 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 100 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 60 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose selected from about 1 2 4 6 8 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 75 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 or 1 000 ug kg day.

It is also contemplated that various angiotensin 1 7 peptides may be used in various embodiments. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide comprises the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 amino acid sequence of Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro SEQ ID NO 1 .

In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is a functional equivalent of SEQ ID NO 1. In some embodiments the functional equivalent is a linear peptide. In some embodiments the linear peptide comprises a sequence that includes at least four at least five or at least six amino acids from the seven amino acids that appear in the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 wherein the at least four five or six amino acids maintain their relative positions as they appear in the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . In some embodiments the linear peptide contains 4 25 amino acids. In some embodiments the linear peptide is a fragment of the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . In some embodiments the linear peptide contains amino acid substitutions deletions and or insertions in the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . In some embodiments the linear peptide has an amino acid sequence of Asp Arg Val ser Ile His Cys SEQ ID NO 2 .

In some embodiments the functional equivalent is a cyclic peptide. In some embodiments the cyclic peptide comprises a linkage between amino acids. In some embodiments the linkage is located at residues corresponding to positions Tyrand Proin naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . In some embodiments the linkage is a thioether bridge. In some embodiments the cyclic peptide comprises an amino acid sequence otherwise identical to the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 amino acid sequence of Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro SEQ ID NO 1 . In some embodiments the cyclic peptide comprises a norleucine Nle replacing position Valin naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . In some embodiments the cyclic peptide is a 4 7 cyclized angiotensin 1 7 with the following formula Asp Arg Val Ser Ile His Cys SEQ ID NO 22 . In some embodiments the cyclic peptide is a 4 7 cyclized angiotensin 1 7 with the following formula 

In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide comprises one or more chemical modifications to increase protease resistance serum stability and or bioavailability. In some embodiments the one or more chemical modifications comprise pegylation.

In some embodiments the present invention provides methods of treating brain conditions including but not limited to stroke vascular dementia and traumatic brain injury including administering to a subject who is suffering from or susceptible to one or more brain conditions an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is a non peptidic agonist. In some embodiments the non peptidic agonist is a compound with the following structure 

As used in this application the terms about and approximately are used as equivalents. Any numerals used in this application with or without about approximately are meant to cover any normal fluctuations appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

Other features objects and advantages of the present invention are apparent in the detailed description that follows. It should be understood however that the detailed description while indicating embodiments of the present invention is given by way of illustration only not limitation. Various changes and modifications within the scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the detailed description.

In order for the present invention to be more readily understood certain terms are first defined below. Additional definitions for the following terms and other terms are set forth throughout the specification.

Animal As used herein the term animal refers to any member of the animal kingdom. In some embodiments animal refers to humans at any stage of development. In some embodiments animal refers to non human animals at any stage of development. In certain embodiments the non human animal is a mammal e.g. a rodent a mouse a rat a rabbit a monkey a dog a cat a sheep cattle a primate and or a pig . In some embodiments animals include but are not limited to mammals birds reptiles amphibians fish insects and or worms. In some embodiments an animal may be a transgenic animal genetically engineered animal and or a clone.

Approximately or about As used herein the term approximately or about as applied to one or more values of interest refers to a value that is similar to a stated reference value. In certain embodiments the term approximately or about refers to a range of values that fall within 25 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 or less in either direction greater than or less than of the stated reference value unless otherwise stated or otherwise evident from the context except where such number would exceed 100 of a possible value .

Biologically active As used herein the phrase biologically active refers to a characteristic of any agent that has activity in a biological system and particularly in an organism. For instance an agent that when administered to an organism has a biological effect on that organism is considered to be biologically active. In particular embodiments where a peptide is biologically active a portion of that peptide that shares at least one biological activity of the peptide is typically referred to as a biologically active portion. In certain embodiments a peptide has no intrinsic biological activity but that inhibits the effects of one or more naturally occurring angiotensin compounds is considered to be biologically active.

Brain Condition as used herein a brain condition is any disease disorder or event that results in damage and or dysfunction of at least a portion of a subject s brain. Non limiting examples of brain conditions include stroke both ischemic and hemorrhagic vascular dementia and traumatic brain injury.

Carrier or diluent As used herein the terms carrier and diluent refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable e.g. safe and non toxic for administration to a human carrier or diluting substance useful for the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation. Exemplary diluents include sterile water bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI a pH buffered solution e.g. phosphate buffered saline sterile saline solution Ringer s solution or dextrose solution.

Dosage form As used herein the terms dosage form and unit dosage form refer to a physically discrete unit of a therapeutic agent for the patient to be treated. Each unit contains a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect. It will be understood however that the total dosage of the composition will be decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment.

Dosing regimen A dosing regimen or therapeutic regimen as that term is used herein is a set of unit doses typically more than one that are administered individually to a subject typically separated by periods of time. In some embodiments a given therapeutic agent has a recommended dosing regimen which may involve one or more doses. In some embodiments a dosing regimen comprises a plurality of doses each of which are separated from one another by a time period of the same length in some embodiments a dosing regime comprises a plurality of doses and at least two different time periods separating individual doses. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is administered continuously over a predetermined period. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is administered once a day QD or twice a day BID .

Functional equivalent or derivative As used herein the term functional equivalent or functional derivative denotes in the context of a functional derivative of an amino acid sequence a molecule that retains a biological activity either function or structural that is substantially similar to that of the original sequence. A functional derivative or equivalent may be a natural derivative or is prepared synthetically. Exemplary functional derivatives include amino acid sequences having substitutions deletions or additions of one or more amino acids provided that the biological activity of the protein is conserved. The substituting amino acid desirably has chemico physical properties which are similar to that of the substituted amino acid. Desirable similar chemico physical properties include similarities in charge bulkiness hydrophobicity hydrophilicity and the like.

Improve increase or reduce As used herein the terms improve increase or reduce or grammatical equivalents indicate values that are relative to a baseline measurement such as a measurement in the same individual prior to initiation of the treatment described herein or a measurement in a control subject or multiple control subject in the absence of the treatment described herein. A control subject is a subject afflicted with the same form of disease as the subject being treated who is about the same age as the subject being treated.

In vitro As used herein the term in vitro refers to events that occur in an artificial environment e.g. in a test tube or reaction vessel in cell culture etc. rather than within a multi cellular organism.

In vivo As used herein the term in vivo refers to events that occur within a multi cellular organism such as a human and a non human animal. In the context of cell based systems the term may be used to refer to events that occur within a living cell as opposed to for example in vitro systems .

Isolated As used herein the term isolated refers to a substance and or entity that has been 1 separated from at least some of the components with which it was associated when initially produced whether in nature and or in an experimental setting and or 2 produced prepared and or manufactured by the hand of man. Isolated substances and or entities may be separated from at least about 10 about 20 about 30 about 40 about 50 about 60 about 70 about 80 about 90 about 95 about 98 about 99 substantially 100 or 100 of the other components with which they were initially associated. In some embodiments isolated agents are more than about 80 about 85 about 90 about 91 about 92 about 93 about 94 about 95 about 96 about 97 about 98 about 99 substantially 100 or 100 pure. As used herein a substance is pure if it is substantially free of other components. As used herein the term isolated cell refers to a cell not contained in a multi cellular organism.

Prevent As used herein the term prevent or prevention when used in connection with the occurrence of a disease disorder and or condition refers to reducing the risk of developing the disease disorder and or condition. See the definition of risk. 

Polypeptide The term polypeptide as used herein refers a sequential chain of amino acids linked together via peptide bonds. The term is used to refer to an amino acid chain of any length but one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the term is not limited to lengthy chains and can refer to a minimal chain comprising two amino acids linked together via a peptide bond. As is known to those skilled in the art polypeptides may be processed and or modified.

Protein The term protein as used herein refers to one or more polypeptides that function as a discrete unit. If a single polypeptide is the discrete functioning unit and does not require permanent or temporary physical association with other polypeptides in order to form the discrete functioning unit the terms polypeptide and protein may be used interchangeably. If the discrete functional unit is comprised of more than one polypeptide that physically associate with one another the term protein refers to the multiple polypeptides that are physically coupled and function together as the discrete unit.

Risk As will be understood from context a risk of a disease disorder and or condition comprises a likelihood that a particular individual will develop a disease disorder and or condition e.g. stroke . In some embodiments risk is expressed as a percentage. In some embodiments risk is from 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 up to 100 . In some embodiments risk is expressed as a risk relative to a risk associated with a reference sample or group of reference samples. In some embodiments a reference sample or group of reference samples have a known risk of a disease disorder condition and or event e.g. stroke . In some embodiments a reference sample or group of reference samples are from individuals comparable to a particular individual. In some embodiments relative risk is 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more.

Stability As used herein the term stable refers to the ability of the therapeutic agent to maintain its therapeutic efficacy e.g. all or the majority of its intended biological activity and or physiochemical integrity over extended periods of time. The stability of a therapeutic agent and the capability of the pharmaceutical composition to maintain stability of such therapeutic agent may be assessed over extended periods of time e.g. for at least 1 3 6 12 18 24 30 36 months or more . In certain embodiments pharmaceutical compositions described herein have been formulated such that they are capable of stabilizing or alternatively slowing or preventing the degradation of one or more therapeutic agents formulated therewith. In the context of a formulation a stable formulation is one in which the therapeutic agent therein essentially retains its physical and or chemical integrity and biological activity upon storage and during processes such as freeze thaw mechanical mixing and lyophilization .

Subject As used herein the term subject refers to a human or any non human animal e.g. mouse rat rabbit dog cat cattle swine sheep horse or primate . A human includes pre and post natal forms. In many embodiments a subject is a human being. A subject can be a patient which refers to a human presenting to a medical provider for diagnosis or treatment of a disease. The term subject is used herein interchangeably with individual or patient. A subject can be afflicted with or is susceptible to a disease or disorder but may or may not display symptoms of the disease or disorder.

Substantially As used herein the term substantially refers to the qualitative condition of exhibiting total or near total extent or degree of a characteristic or property of interest. One of ordinary skill in the biological arts will understand that biological and chemical phenomena rarely if ever go to completion and or proceed to completeness or achieve or avoid an absolute result. The term substantially is therefore used herein to capture the potential lack of completeness inherent in many biological and chemical phenomena.

Suffering from An individual who is suffering from a disease disorder and or condition has been diagnosed with or displays one or more symptoms of the disease disorder and or condition.

Susceptible to An individual who is susceptible to a disease disorder and or condition has not been diagnosed with the disease disorder and or condition. In some embodiments an individual who is susceptible to a disease disorder and or condition may not exhibit symptoms of the disease disorder and or condition. In some embodiments an individual who is susceptible to a disease disorder condition or event for example ischemic stroke may be characterized by one or more of the following 1 a genetic mutation associated with development of the disease disorder and or condition 2 a genetic polymorphism associated with development of the disease disorder and or condition 3 increased and or decreased expression and or activity of a protein associated with the disease disorder and or condition 4 habits and or lifestyles associated with development of the disease disorder condition and or event 5 having undergone planning to undergo or requiring a transplant. In some embodiments an individual who is susceptible to a disease disorder and or condition will develop the disease disorder and or condition. In some embodiments an individual who is susceptible to a disease disorder and or condition will not develop the disease disorder and or condition.

Therapeutically effective amount As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent means an amount that is sufficient when administered to a subject suffering from or susceptible to a disease disorder and or condition to treat diagnose prevent and or delay the onset of the symptom s of the disease disorder and or condition. It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a therapeutically effective amount is typically administered via a dosing regimen comprising at least one unit dose.

Treating As used herein the term treat treatment or treating refers to any method used to partially or completely alleviate ameliorate relieve inhibit prevent delay onset of reduce severity of and or reduce incidence of one or more symptoms or features of a particular disease disorder and or condition. Treatment may be administered to a subject who does not exhibit signs of a disease and or exhibits only early signs of the disease for the purpose of decreasing the risk of developing pathology associated with the disease.

The present invention provides among other things improved compositions and methods for treating or reducing the risk of brain conditions resulting from damage to or disorder of brain tissue.

Various aspects of the invention are described in detail in the following sections. The use of sections is not meant to limit the invention. Each section can apply to any aspect of the invention. In this application the use of or means and or unless stated otherwise.

The brain is highly vulnerable to a disturbance in its oxygen supply. Anoxia and ischemia lasting only a few seconds can cause symptoms and if the condition persists for minutes they can cause irreversible neuronal damage. Accordingly stroke is a prominent cause of serious long term disability and a leading cause of death in the United States. Stroke is also a significant burden on the medical industry with total health costs for disability due to stroke being estimated at approximately 53 billion annually.

There are two types of stroke ischemic and hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke involves an obstruction in one or more blood vessels that supply blood to brain tissue for example occlusion resulting from atherosclerotic thrombii or embolism. Ischemic stroke cerebral ischemia represent approximately 88 of all strokes making ischemic stroke one of the most common types of cerebrovascular injury. Ischemic conditions in the brain quickly lead to neuronal death often leading to permanent sensorimotor deficits. A hemorrhagic stroke is defined herein as the accumulation of blood anywhere within the cranial vault. Hemorrhagic strokes may result from many causes including injury resulting from an expanding hematoma which can disrupt or distort tissue.

A major barrier in the treatment of both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke is delivery of a therapeutic that will reach affected tissue. Given the effectiveness of the blood brain barrier few compounds are capable of crossing into and affecting cerebral tissue. Previously delivery of compounds such as angiotensin 1 7 had to be made using intracerebroventricular ICV delivery. Surprisingly embodiments of the present invention including the exemplary angiotensin 1 7 peptides described below are able to cross the blood brain barrier without complex delivery systems such as modified stem cells or the like. Rather in some embodiments angiotensin 1 7 peptides may be delivered via intravenous or subcutaneous routes.

Vascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia behind Alzheimer s Disease. Vascular dementia may result from problems with blood supply in the brain such as those caused by ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke or from other causes that lead to development of lesions in the brain. Other causes of vascular dementia include cerebral amyloid angiopathy hypercholesterolemia diabetes mellitus or cardiovascular disease. Dementia resulting from one or more strokes is also known as single infarct dementia or multi infarct dementia depending upon the root cause.

Treatment of vascular dementia has primarily focused on the prevention of further cerebrovascular lesions through use of antiplatelet drugs and life style changes alteration of diet cessation of smoking etc . Cholinesterase inhibitors such as galantamine have also been explored for use in this clinical scenario but this type of treatment is concerned with maintenance of acetylcholine function in the brain and not recovery or generation of an improved and sustained blood supply. Thus embodiments of the present invention represent a novel intravenous and subcutaneous therapy targeted to improving the underlying causes of the disease rather than management of symptoms or maximization of remaining tissue resources.

Traumatic brain injury TBI a form of acquired brain injury occurs when a sudden trauma causes damage to the brain. TBI can result when the head suddenly and violently hits an object or vice versa or when an object pierces the skull and enters brain tissue. Symptoms of a TBI can be mild moderate or severe depending on the extent of the damage to the brain. A person with a mild TBI may remain conscious or may experience a loss of consciousness for a few seconds or minutes. Other symptoms of mild TBI include headache confusion lightheadedness dizziness blurred vision or tired eyes ringing in the ears bad taste in the mouth fatigue or lethargy a change in sleep patterns behavioral or mood changes and trouble with memory concentration attention or thinking. A person with a moderate or severe TBI may show these same symptoms but may also have a headache that gets worse or does not go away repeated vomiting or nausea convulsions or seizures an inability to awaken from sleep dilation of one or both pupils of the eyes slurred speech weakness or numbness in the extremities loss of coordination and increased confusion restlessness or agitation.

Treatments for TBI focus primarily on preventing further injury or complications. Primary concerns in treating TBI include insuring proper oxygen supply to the brain and the rest of the body maintaining adequate blood flow and controlling blood pressure. Often the primary treatment a TBI sufferer receives post stabilization is rehabilitation that involves individually tailored treatment programs in the areas of physical therapy occupational therapy speech language therapy psychology psychiatry and social support. Embodiments of the present invention provide a novel treatment for these patients.

As used herein the term angiotensin 1 7 peptide refers to both naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 and any functional equivalent analogue or derivative of naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 . As used herein peptide and polypeptide are interchangeable terms and refer to two or more amino acids bound together by a peptide bond. As used herein the terms peptide and polypeptide include both linear and cyclic peptide. The terms angiotensin 1 7 Angiotensin 1 7 and Ang 1 7 are used interchangeably.

Naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 also referred to as Ang 1 7 is a seven amino acid peptide shown below 

Different types of angiotensin may be formed by the action of various enzymes. For example Angiotensin 1 7 is generated by action of Angiotensin converting enzyme 2 ACE 2 .

Ang 1 7 is an endogenous ligand for Mas receptors. Mas receptors are G protein coupled receptor containing seven transmembrane spanning regions. As used herein the term angiotensin 1 7 receptor encompasses the G Protein Coupled Mas Receptors.

As used herein the term naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 includes any Angiotensin 1 7 peptide purified from natural sources and any recombinantly produced or chemically synthesized peptides that have an amino acid sequence identical to that of the naturally occurring Angiotensin 1 7 .

In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 peptide suitable for the present invention is a functional equivalent of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . As used herein a functional equivalent of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 refers to any peptide that shares amino acid sequence identity to the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 and retain substantially the same or similar activity as the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . For example in some embodiments a functional equivalent of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 described herein has pro angiogenic activity as determined using methods described herein or known in the art or an activity such as nitric oxide release vasodilation improved endothelial function antidiuresis or one of the other properties discussed herein that positively impacts angiogenesis. In some embodiments a functional equivalent of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 described herein can bind to or activate an angiotensin 1 7 receptor e.g. the G protein coupled Mas receptor as determined using various assays described herein or known in the art. In some embodiments a functional equivalent of Ang 1 7 is also referred to as an angiotensin 1 7 analogue or derivative or functional derivative.

Typically a functional equivalent of angiotensin 1 7 shares amino acid sequence similarity to the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In some embodiments a functional equivalent of Ang 1 7 according to the invention contains a sequence that includes at least 3 e.g. at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 at least 7 amino acids from the seven amino acids that appear in the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 wherein the at least 3 e.g. at least 4 at least 5 at least 6 or at least 7 amino acids maintain their relative positions and or spacing as they appear in the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 .

In some embodiments a functional equivalent of Ang 1 7 also encompass any peptide that contain a sequence at least 50 e.g. at least 60 70 80 or 90 identical to the amino acid sequence of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . Percentage of amino acid sequence identity can be determined by alignment of amino acid sequences. Alignment of amino acid sequences can be achieved in various ways that are within the skill in the art for instance using publicly available computer software such as BLAST ALIGN or Megalign DNASTAR software. Those skilled in the art can determine appropriate parameters for measuring alignment including any algorithms needed to achieve maximal alignment over the full length of the sequences being compared. Preferably the WU BLAST 2 software is used to determine amino acid sequence identity Altschul et al. Methods in Enzymology 266 460 480 1996 blast.wustl edu blast README.html . WU BLAST 2 uses several search parameters most of which are set to the default values. The adjustable parameters are set with the following values overlap span 1 overlap fraction 0.125 word threshold T 11. HSP score S and HSP S2 parameters are dynamic values and are established by the program itself depending upon the composition of the particular sequence however the minimum values may be adjusted and are set as indicated above.

In some embodiments a functional equivalent analogue or derivative of Ang 1 7 is a fragment of the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In some embodiments a functional equivalent analogue or derivative of Ang 1 7 contains amino acid substitutions deletions and or insertions in the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . Ang 1 7 functional equivalents analogues or derivatives can be made by altering the amino acid sequences by substitutions additions and or deletions. For example one or more amino acid residues within the sequence of the naturally occurring Ang 1 7 SEQ ID NO 1 can be substituted by another amino acid of a similar polarity which acts as a functional equivalent resulting in a silent alteration. Substitution for an amino acid within the sequence may be selected from other members of the class to which the amino acid belongs. For example the positively charged basic amino acids include arginine lysine and histidine. The nonpolar hydrophobic amino acids include leucine isoleucine alanine phenylalanine valine proline tryptophane and methionine. The uncharged polar amino acids include serine threonine cysteine tyrosine asparagine and glutamine. The negatively charged acid amino acids include glutamic acid and aspartic acid. The amino acid glycine may be included in either the nonpolar amino acid family or the uncharged neutral polar amino acid family. Substitutions made within a family of amino acids are generally understood to be conservative substitutions. For example the amino acid sequence of a peptide inhibitor can be modified or substituted.

Examples of Ang 1 7 functional equivalents analogues and derivatives are described in the section entitled Exemplary Angiotensin 1 7 Peptides below.

An angiotensin 1 7 peptide can be of any length. In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 peptide according to the present invention can contain for example from 4 25 amino acids e.g. 4 20 4 15 4 14 4 13 4 12 4 11 4 10 4 9 4 8 4 7 amino acids . In some embodiments the linear peptide contains 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 amino acids.

In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 peptide contains one or more modifications to increase protease resistance serum stability and or bioavailability. In some embodiments suitable modifications are selected from pegylation acetylation glycosylation biotinylation substitution with D amino acid and or un natural amino acid and or cyclization of the peptide.

As used herein the term amino acid in its broadest sense refers to any compound and or substance that can be incorporated into a polypeptide chain. In certain embodiments an amino acid has the general structure HN C H R COOH. In certain embodiments an amino acid is a naturally occurring amino acid. In certain embodiments an amino acid is a synthetic or un natural amino acid e.g. disubstituted amino acids N alkyl amino acids in some embodiments an amino acid is a d amino acid in certain embodiments an amino acid is an 1 amino acid. Standard amino acid refers to any of the twenty standard amino acids commonly found in naturally occurring peptides including both l and d amino acids which are both incorporated in peptides in nature. Nonstandard or unconventional amino acid refers to any amino acid other than the standard amino acids regardless of whether it is prepared synthetically or obtained from a natural source. As used herein synthetic or un natural amino acid encompasses chemically modified amino acids including but not limited to salts amino acid derivatives such as amides and or substitutions. Amino acids including carboxy and or amino terminal amino acids in peptides can be modified by methylation amidation acetylation and or substitution with other chemical groups that can change the peptide s circulating half life without adversely affecting its activity. Examples of unconventional or un natural amino acids include but are not limited to citrulline ornithine norleucine norvaline 4 E butenyl 4 R methyl N methylthreonine MeBmt N methyl leucine MeLeu aminoisobutyric acid statine and N methyl alanine MeAla . Amino acids may participate in a disulfide bond. The term amino acid is used interchangeably with amino acid residue and may refer to a free amino acid and or to an amino acid residue of a peptide. It will be apparent from the context in which the term is used whether it refers to a free amino acid or a residue of a peptide.

In certain embodiments angiotensin 1 7 peptides contain one or more L amino acids D amino acids and or un natural amino acids.

In addition to peptides containing only naturally occurring amino acids peptidomimetics or peptide analogs are also encompassed by the present invention. Peptide analogs are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry as non peptide drugs with properties analogous to those of the template peptide. The non peptide compounds are termed peptide mimetics or peptidomimetics Fauchere et al. 54 283 287 1986 Evans et al. 30 1229 1239 1987 . Peptide mimetics that are structurally related to therapeutically useful peptides and may be used to produce an equivalent or enhanced therapeutic or prophylactic effect. Generally peptidomimetics are structurally similar to the paradigm polypeptide i.e. a polypeptide that has a biological or pharmacological activity such as naturally occurring receptor binding polypeptides but have one or more peptide linkages optionally replaced by linkages such as CHNH CHS CH CH CH CH cis and trans CHSO CH OH CH COCH etc. by methods well known in the art Spatola Peptide Backbone Modifications Vega Data 1 3 267 1983 Spatola et al. 38 1243 1249 1986 Hudson et al. 14 177 185 1979 and Weinstein. B. 1983 Chemistry and Biochemistry of Amino Acids Peptides and Proteins Weinstein eds Marcel Dekker New York . Such peptide mimetics may have significant advantages over naturally occurring polypeptides including more economical production greater chemical stability enhanced pharmacological properties e.g. half life absorption potency efficiency etc. reduced antigenicity and others.

Ang 1 7 peptides also include other types of peptide derivatives containing additional chemical moieties not normally part of the peptide provided that the derivative retains the desired functional activity of the peptide. Examples of such derivatives include 1 N acyl derivatives of the amino terminal or of another free amino group wherein the acyl group may be an alkanoyl group e.g. acetyl hexanoyl octanoyl an aroyl group e.g. benzoyl or a blocking group such as F moc fluorenylmethyl O CO 2 esters of the carboxy terminal or of another free carboxy or hydroxyl group 3 amide of the carboxy terminal or of another free carboxyl group produced by reaction with ammonia or with a suitable amine 4 phosphorylated derivatives 5 derivatives conjugated to an antibody or other biological ligand and other types of derivatives and 6 derivatives conjugated to a polyethylene glycol PEG chain.

Ang 1 7 peptides may be obtained by any method of peptide synthesis known to those skilled in the art including synthetic e.g. exclusive solid phase synthesis partial solid phase synthesis fragment condensation classical solution synthesis native chemical ligation and recombinant techniques. For example the peptides or peptides derivatives can be obtained by solid phase peptide synthesis which in brief consist of coupling the carboxyl group of the C terminal amino acid to a resin e.g. benzhydrylamine resin chloromethylated resin hydroxymethyl resin and successively adding N alpha protected amino acids. The protecting groups may be any such groups known in the art. Before each new amino acid is added to the growing chain the protecting group of the previous amino acid added to the chain is removed. Such solid phase synthesis has been disclosed for example by Merrifield 85 2149 1964 Vale et al. Science 213 1394 1397 1981 in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 305 872 and 4 316 891 Bodonsky et al. Chem. Ind. London 38 1597 1966 and Pietta and Marshall 650 1970 by techniques reviewed in Lubell et al. Peptides Science of Synthesis 21.11 . Thieme Stuttgart 713 809 2005 . The coupling of amino acids to appropriate resins is also well known in the art and has been disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 244 946. Reviewed in Houver Weyl Methods of Organic Chemistry. Vol E22a. Synthesis of Peptides and Peptidomimetics Murray Goodman Editor in Chief Thieme. Stuttgart. N.Y. 2002 .

Unless defined otherwise the scientific and technological terms and nomenclature used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by a person of ordinary skill to which this invention pertains. Generally the procedures of cell cultures infection molecular biology methods and the like are common methods used in the art. Such standard techniques can be found in reference manuals such as for example Ausubel et al. Wiley Interscience New York 2001 and Sambrook et al. 3edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press N.Y. 2001.

During any process of the preparation of an Ang 1 7 peptide it may be desirable to protect sensitive reactive groups on any of the molecule concerned. This may be achieved by means of conventional protecting groups such as those described in Protective Groups In Organic Synthesis by T. W. Greene P. G. M. Wuts 1991 John Wiley and Sons New York and Peptides chemistry and Biology by Sewald and Jakubke 2002 Wiley VCH Wheinheim p. 142. For example alpha amino protecting groups include acyl type protecting groups e.g. trifluoroacetyl formyl acetyl aliphatic urethane protecting groups e.g. t butyloxycarbonyl BOC cyclohexyloxycarbonyl aromatic urethane type protecting groups e.g. fluorenyl 9 methoxy carbonyl Fmoc benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz Cbz derivatives and alkyl type protecting groups e.g. triphenyl methyl benzyl . The amino acids side chain protecting groups include benzyl for Thr and Ser Cbz Tyr Thr Ser Arg Lys methyl ethyl cyclohexyl Asp H is Boc Arg His Cys etc. The protecting groups may be removed at a convenient subsequent stage using methods known in the art.

Further Ang 1 7 peptides may be synthesized according to the FMOC protocol in an organic phase with protective groups. Desirably the peptides are purified with a yield of 70 with high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC on a C18 chromatography column and eluted with an acetonitrile gradient of 10 60 . The molecular weight of a peptide can be verified by mass spectrometry reviewed in Fields G. B. Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis . Vol. 289 Academic Press 1997 .

Alternatively Ang 1 7 peptides may be prepared in recombinant systems using for example polynucleotide sequences encoding the polypeptides. It is understood that a polypeptide may contain more than one of the above described modifications within the same polypeptide.

While peptides may be effective in eliciting a biological activity in vitro their effectiveness in vivo might be reduced by the presence of proteases. Serum proteases have specific substrate requirements. The substrate must have both L amino acids and peptide bonds for cleavage. Furthermore exopeptidases which represent the most prominent component of the protease activity in serum usually act on the first peptide bond of the peptide and require a free N terminus Powell et al. 10 1268 1273 1993 . In light of this it is often advantageous to use modified versions of peptides. The modified peptides retain the structural characteristics of the original L amino acid peptides that confer the desired biological activity of Ang 1 7 but are advantageously not readily susceptible to cleavage by protease and or exopeptidases.

Systematic substitution of one or more amino acids of a consensus sequence with D amino acid of the same type e.g. D lysine in place of L lysine may be used to generate more stable peptides. Thus a peptide derivative or peptidomimetic of the present invention may be all L all D or mixed D L peptide in either forward or reverse order. The presence of an N terminal or C terminal D amino acid increases the in vivo stability of a peptide since peptidases cannot utilize a D amino acid as a substrate Powell et al. 10 1268 1273 1993 . Reverse D peptides are peptides containing D amino acids arranged in a reverse sequence relative to a peptide containing L amino acids. Thus the C terminal residue of an L amino acid peptide becomes N terminal for the D amino acid peptide and so forth. Reverse D peptides retain the same secondary conformation and therefore similar activity as the L amino acid peptides but are more resistant to enzymatic degradation in vitro and in vivo and thus can have greater therapeutic efficacy than the original peptide Brady and Dodson 368 692 693 1994 Jameson et al. 368 744 746 1994 . Similarly a reverse L peptide may be generated using standard methods where the C terminus of the parent peptide becomes takes the place of the N terminus of the reverse L peptide. It is contemplated that reverse L peptides of L amino acid peptides that do not have significant secondary structure e.g. short peptides retain the same spacing and conformation of the side chains of the L amino acid peptide and therefore often have the similar activity as the original L amino acid peptide. Moreover a reverse peptide may contain a combination of L and D amino acids. The spacing between amino acids and the conformation of the side chains may be retained resulting in similar activity as the original L amino acid peptide.

Another effective approach to confer resistance to peptidases acting on the N terminal or C terminal residues of a peptide is to add chemical groups at the peptide termini such that the modified peptide is no longer a substrate for the peptidase. One such chemical modification is glycosylation of the peptides at either or both termini. Certain chemical modifications in particular N terminal glycosylation have been shown to increase the stability of peptides in human serum Powell et al. 10 1268 1273 1993 . Other chemical modifications which enhance serum stability include but are not limited to the addition of an N terminal alkyl group consisting of a lower alkyl of from one to twenty carbons such as an acetyl group and or the addition of a C terminal amide or substituted amide group. In particular the present invention includes modified peptides consisting of peptides bearing an N terminal acetyl group and or a C terminal amide group.

Substitution of non naturally occurring amino acids for natural amino acids in a subsequence of the peptides can also confer resistance to proteolysis. Such a substitution can for instance confer resistance to proteolysis by exopeptidases acting on the N terminus without affecting biological activity. Examples of non naturally occurring amino acids include disubstituted amino acids N alkyl amino acids C methyl amino acids amino acids and methyl amino acids. Amino acids analogs useful in the present invention may include but are not limited to alanine norvaline norleucine 4 aminobutyric acid orithine hydroxyproline sarcosine citrulline cysteic acid cyclohexylalanine 2 aminoisobutyric acid 6 aminohexanoic acid t butylglycine phenylglycine o phosphoserine N acetyl serine N formylmethionine 3 methylhistidine and other unconventional amino acids. Furthermore the synthesis of peptides with non naturally occurring amino acids is routine in the art.

In addition constrained peptides comprising a consensus sequence or a substantially identical consensus sequence variation may be generated by methods well known in the art Rizo and Gierasch 61 387 418 1992 . For example constrained peptides may be generated by adding cysteine residues capable of forming disulfide bridges and thereby resulting in a cyclic peptide. Cyclic peptides can be constructed to have no free N or C termini. Accordingly they are not susceptible to proteolysis by exopeptidases although they may be susceptible to endopeptidases which do not cleave at peptide termini. The amino acid sequences of the peptides with N terminal or C terminal D amino acids and of the cyclic peptides are usually identical to the sequences of the peptides to which they correspond except for the presence of N terminal or C terminal D amino acid residue or their circular structure respectively.

In some embodiments a functional equivalent analogue or derivative of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 is a cyclic peptide. As used herein a cyclic peptide has an intramolecular covalent bond between two non adjacent residues. The intramolecular bond may be a backbone to backbone side chain to backbone or side chain to side chain bond i.e. terminal functional groups of a linear peptide and or side chain functional groups of a terminal or interior residue may be linked to achieve cyclization . Typical intramolecular bonds include disulfide amide and thioether bonds. A variety of means for cyclizing polypeptides are well known in the art as are many other modifications that can be made to such peptides. For a general discussion see International Patent Publication Nos. WO 01 53331 and WO 98 02452 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Such cyclic bonds and other modifications can also be applied to the cyclic peptides and derivative compounds of this invention.

Cyclic peptides as described herein may comprise residues of L amino acids D amino acids or any combination thereof. Amino acids may be from natural or non natural sources provided that at least one amino group and at least one carboxyl group are present in the molecule and amino acids are generally preferred. Cyclic peptides may also contain one or more rare amino acids such as 4 hydroxyproline or hydroxylysine organic acids or amides and or derivatives of common amino acids such as amino acids having the C terminal carboxylate esterified e.g. benzyl methyl or ethyl ester or amidated and or having modifications of the N terminal amino group e.g. acetylation or alkoxycarbonylation with or without any of a wide variety of side chain modifications and or substitutions e.g. methylation benzylation t butylation tosylation alkoxycarbonylation and the like . Suitable derivatives include amino acids having an N acetyl group such that the amino group that represents the N terminus of the linear peptide prior to cyclization is acetylated and or a C terminal amide group i.e. the carboxy terminus of the linear peptide prior to cyclization is amidated . Residues other than common amino acids that may be present with a cyclic peptide include but are not limited to penicillamine tetramethylene cysteine pentamethylene cysteine mercaptopropionic acid pentamethylene mercaptopropionic acid 2 mercaptobenzene 2 mercaptoaniline 2 mercaptoproline ornithine diaminobutyric acid aminoadipic acid m aminomethylbenzoic acid and diaminopropionic acid.

Following synthesis of a linear peptide with or without N acetylation and or C amidation cyclization may be achieved by any of a variety of techniques well known in the art. Within one embodiment a bond may be generated between reactive amino acid side chains. For example a disulfide bridge may be formed from a linear peptide comprising two thiol containing residues by oxidizing the peptide using any of a variety of methods. Within one such method air oxidation of thiols can generate disulfide linkages over a period of several days using either basic or neutral aqueous media. The peptide is used in high dilution to minimize aggregation and intermolecular side reactions. Alternatively strong oxidizing agents such as Iand KFe CN can be used to form disulfide linkages. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that care must be taken not to oxidize the sensitive side chains of Met Tyr Trp or His. Within further embodiments cyclization may be achieved by amide bond formation. For example a peptide bond may be formed between terminal functional groups i.e. the amino and carboxy termini of a linear peptide prior to cyclization . Within another such embodiment the linear peptide comprises a D amino acid. Alternatively cyclization may be accomplished by linking one terminus and a residue side chain or using two side chains with or without an N terminal acetyl group and or a C terminal amide. Residues capable of forming a lactam bond include lysine ornithine Orn amino adipic acid m aminomethylbenzoic acid diaminopropionic acid glutamate or aspartate. Methods for forming amide bonds are generally well known in the art. Within one such method carbodiimide mediated lactam formation can be accomplished by reaction of the carboxylic acid with DCC DIC ED AC or DCCI resulting in the formation of an O acylurea that can be reacted immediately with the free amino group to complete the cyclization. Alternatively cyclization can be performed using the azide method in which a reactive azide intermediate is generated from an alkyl ester via a hydrazide. Alternatively cyclization can be accomplished using activated esters. The presence of electron withdrawing substituents on the alkoxy carbon of esters increases their susceptibility to aminolysis. The high reactivity of esters of p nitrophenol N hydroxy compounds and polyhalogenated phenols has made these active esters useful in the synthesis of amide bonds. Within a further embodiment a thioether linkage may be formed between the side chain of a thiol containing residue and an appropriately derivatized amino acid. By way of example a lysine side chain can be coupled to bromoacetic acid through the carbodiimide coupling method DCC EDAC and then reacted with the side chain of any of the thiol containing residues mentioned above to form a thioether linkage. In order to form dithioethers any two thiol containing side chains can be reacted with dibromoethane and diisopropylamine in DMF.

In certain aspects the invention provides linear angiotensin 1 7 peptides. As discussed above the structure of naturally occurring Ang 1 7 is as follows 

The peptides and peptide analogs of the invention can be generally represented by the following sequence 

Xaais any amino acid or a dicarboxylic acid. In certain embodiments Xaais Asp Glu Asn Acpc 1 aminocyclopentane carboxylic acid Ala MeGly N N dimethylglycine Pro Bet betaine 1 carboxy N N N trimethylmethanaminium hydroxide Glu Gly Asp Sar sarcosine or Suc succinic acid . In certain such embodiments Xaais a negatively charged amino acid such as Asp or Glu typically Asp.

Xaais Arg Lys Ala Cit citrulline Orn ornithine acetylated Ser Sar D Arg and D Lys. In certain embodiments Xaais a positively charged amino acid such as Arg or Lys typically Arg.

Xaais Val Ala Leu Nle norleucine Ile Gly Lys Pro HydroxyPro hydroxyproline Aib 2 aminoisobutyric acid Acpc or Tyr. In certain embodiments Xaais an aliphatic amino acid such as Val Leu Ile or Nle typically Val or Nle.

Xaais Tyr Tyr PO Thr Ser homoSer homoserine azaTyr aza homo L tyrosine or Ala. In certain embodiments Xaais a hydroxyl substituted amino acid such as Tyr Ser or Thr typically Tyr.

Xaais Ile Ala Leu norLeu Val or Gly. In certain embodiments Xaais an aliphatic amino acid such as Val Leu Ile or Nle typically Ile.

Xaais His Arg or 6 NH Phe 6 aminophenylalaine . In certain embodiments Xaais a fully or partially positively charged amino acid such as Arg or His.

In certain embodiments one or more of Xaa Xaais identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In certain such embodiments all but one or two of Xaa Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In other embodiments all of Xaa Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 .

In certain embodiments Xaais Nle. When Xaais Nle one or more of Xaa Xaaand Xaaare optionally identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In certain such embodiments all but one or two of Xaa Xaaand Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In other embodiments all of Xaa Xaaand Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 resulting in the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Nle Tyr Ile His Pro SEQ ID NO 5 .

In certain embodiments the peptide has the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Val Ser Ile His Cys SEQ ID NO 6 or Asp Arg Val ser Ile His Cys SEQ ID NO 2 .

In certain aspects the invention provides a cyclic angiotensin 1 7 Ang 1 7 peptide analog comprising a linkage such as between the side chains of amino acids corresponding to positions Tyrand Proin Ang. These peptide analogs typically comprise 7 amino acid residues but can also include a cleavable sequence. As discussed in greater detail below the invention includes fragments and analogs where one or more amino acids are substituted by another amino acid including fragments . One example of such an analog is Asp Arg Val Ser Ile His Cys SEQ ID NO 22 wherein a linkage is formed between Serand Cys.

Although the following section describes aspects of the invention in terms of a thioether bond linking residues at the 4 and 7 positions it should be understood that other linkages as described above could replace the thioether bridge and that other residues could be cyclized. A thioether bridge is also referred to as a monosulfide bridge or in the case of Ala S Ala as a lanthionine bridge. Thioether bridge containing peptides can be formed by two amino acids having one of the following formulas 

In these formulae R R R R Rand Rare independently H an alkyl e.g. C Calkyl C Calkyl or an aralkyl group where the alkyl and aralkyl groups are optionally substituted with one or more halogen OH or NRR groups where R and R are independently H or C Calkyl . In certain embodiments R R R R Rand Rare each independently H or CH such where all are H.

In certain embodiments the invention provides an Ang analog or derivative comprising a thioether bridge according to formula I . Typically R R Rand Rare independently selected from H and CH. Peptides comprising a thioether bridge according to formula I can be produced for example by lantibiotic enzymes or by sulfur extrusion of a disulfide. In one example the disulfide from which the sulfur is extruded can be formed by D cysteine in position 4 and L cysteine in position 7 or by D cysteine in position 4 and L penicillamine in position 7 see e.g. Galande Trent and Spatola 2003 71 534 551 .

In other embodiments the linkage of the two amino acids can be the bridges depicted in Formula II or Formula III . Peptides comprising a thioether bridge according to Formula II can be made for example by sulfur extrusion of a disulfide formed by D homocysteine in position 4 and L cysteine in position 7. Similarly peptides comprising a thioether bridge as in Formula III can be made for example by sulfur extrusion of a disulfide formed by D cysteine in position 4 and L homocysteine in position 7.

As discussed above the Ang analogs and derivatives of the invention vary in length and amino acid composition. The Ang analogs and derivatives of the invention preferably have biological activity or are an inactive precursor molecule that can be proteolytically activated such as how angiotensin I with 10 amino acids is converted to active fragments by cleavage of 2 amino acids . The size of an Ang analog or derivative can vary but is typically between from about 5 to 10 amino acids as long as the core pentameric segment comprising the 3 7 Nle thioether ring structure is encompassed. The amino acid sequence of an analog or derivative of the invention can vary typically provided that it is biologically active or can become proteolytically activated. Biological activity of an analog or derivative can be determined using methods known in the art including radioligand binding studies in vitro cell activation assays and in vivo experiments. See for example Godeny and Sayeski 2006 291 C1297 1307 Sarr et al. . 2006 71 794 802 and Koziarz et al. 1933 24 705 713.

a 4 7 cyclized analog designated Cyc Ang 1 7 which is derived from natural Ang 1 7 Asp Arg Val Cyc Ile His Cyc SEQ ID NO 7 .

a 4 7 cyclized analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 1 10 which is derived from natural Angiotensin I Ang 1 10 Asp Arg Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc Phe His Leu SEQ ID NO 8 

a 4 7 cyclized analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 1 8 which is derived from natural Angiotensin II Ang 1 8 Asp Arg Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc Phe SEQ ID NO 9 

a 4 7 cyclised analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 2 8 which is derived from natural Angiotensin III Ang 2 8 Arg Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc Phe SEQ ID NO 10 

a 4 7 cyclised analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 3 8 which is derived from natural Angiotensin IV Ang 3 8 Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc Phe SEQ ID NO 11 

a 4 7 cyclised analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 1 7 derived from natural Ang 1 7 Asp Arg Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc SEQ ID NO 12 and

a 4 7 cyclised analog designated Nle Cyc Ang 1 9 derived from natural Ang 1 9 Asp Arg Nle Cyc Ile His Cyc Phe His SEQ ID NO 13 .

These analogs can have one of the thioether bridges shown in Formulae I III as the Cycmoiety for example where Cycand Cycare represented by Formula I such as where R Rare each H or CH typically H.

As compared to the amino acid sequence of the natural angiotensin peptide the amino acids at positions 4 and 7 of the Cycanalog are modified to allow introduction of the thioether ring structures shown above. In addition to the length of the Ang analogs the amino acids at positions other than 3 4 and 7 can be the same or different from the naturally occurring peptide typically provided that the analog retains a biological function. For analogs of inactive precursors like Cyc Ang 1 10 biological function refers to one or both of an analog s susceptibility to angiotensin converting enzymes that can cleave it to a biologically active fragment e.g. Ang 1 8 or Ang 1 7 or the biological activity of the fragment itself. In certain embodiments an Ang analog or derivative of the invention has no intrinsic function but inhibits the effects of one or more naturally occurring angiotensin compounds.

Xaais any amino acid but typically a negatively charged amino acid such as Glu or Asp more typically Asp.

Cycforms a thioether bridge in conjunction with Cyc. Cyccan be a D stereoisomer and or a L stereoisomer typically a D stereoisomer. Examples of Cyc taken with Cyc are shown in Formulas I II and III . Typically the R groups in Formulae I II and III are H or CH especially H.

Cycforms a thioether bridge in conjunction with Cyc such as in Formula I II or III . Cyccan be a D stereoisomer and or a L stereoisomer typically a L stereoisomer. Examples of Cyc taken with Cyc are shown in Formulas I II III and IV . Typically the R groups in Formulae Formulas I II and III and IV are H or CH especially H.

In certain embodiments one or more of Xaa Xaa excluding Cycand Cyc is identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In certain such embodiments all but one or two of Xaa Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 . In other embodiments all of Xaa Xaaare identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang 1 7 .

In certain embodiments Cycand Cycare independently selected from Abu 2 aminobutyric acid and Ala alanine where Ala is present in at least one position. Thus cyclic analogs can have a thioether linkage formed by Ala S Ala Formula I where R Rare each H Ala S Abu Formula I R Rare H and Ris CH or Abu S Ala Formula I R Rand Rare H and Ris CH . Specific examples of cyclic analogs comprise a Abu S Ala or Ala S Ala linkage.

In certain embodiments the invention provides an Ang 1 7 analog with a thioether bridge between position 4 and position 7 having the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Val Abu Ile His Ala SEQ ID NO 15 or the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Val Ala Ile His Ala SEQ ID NO 16 which are represented by the following structural diagrams 

Xaa Xaa Nle Cyc Xaa Xaa Cyc Xaa Xaa Xaa V SEQ ID NO 17 As discussed above one or more of Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent in certain embodiments. For example 1 Xaais absent 2 Xaaand Xaaare absent 3 Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent 4 Xaais absent 5 Xaaand Xaaare absent 6 Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent 7 Xaa Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent 8 Xaaand Xaaare absent 9 Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent 10 Xaa Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent or 11 Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaaand Xaaare absent. For each of these embodiments the remaining amino acids have the values described below.

Xaa when present is any amino acid but typically a negatively charged amino acid such as Glu or Asp more typically Asp.

Cycforms a thioether bridge in conjunction with Cyc. Cyccan be a D stereoisomer and or a L stereoisomer typically a D stereoisomer. Examples of Cyc taken with Cyc are shown in Formulas I II and III . Typically the R groups in Formulae I II and III are H or CH especially H.

Cycforms a thioether bridge in conjunction with Cyc such as in Formula I II or III . Cyccan be a D stereoisomer and or a L stereoisomer typically a L stereoisomer. Examples of Cyc taken with Cyc are shown in Formulas I II and III . Typically the R groups in Formulae I II and III are H or CH especially H.

Xaa when present is an amino acid other than Pro typically Phe or Ile. In certain embodiments Ile results in an inhibitor of Ang 1 8 . In certain embodiments Phe maintains the biological activity of Ang 1 8 or Ang 1 10 .

In certain embodiments one or more of Xaa Xaa excluding Nle Cycand Cyc is identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang including Ang 1 7 Ang 1 8 Ang 1 9 Ang 1 10 Ang 2 7 Ang 2 8 Ang 2 9 Ang 2 10 Ang 3 8 Ang 3 9 and Ang 3 10 . In certain such embodiments all but one or two of Xaa Xaa for those present are identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang. In other embodiments all of Xaa Xaa for those present are identical to the corresponding amino acid in naturally occurring Ang.

In certain embodiments Cycand Cycare independently selected from Abu 2 aminobutyric acid and Ala alanine where Ala is present at at least one position. Thus encompassed are cyclic analogs comprising a thioether linkage formed by Ala S Ala Formula I where R Rare each H Ala S Abu Formula I R Rare H and Ris CH or Abu S Ala Formula I R Rand Rare H and Ris CH . Specific cyclic analogs comprise a Abu S Ala or Ala S Ala linkage.

In particular the invention provides an Ang 1 7 analog or derivative with a thioether bridge between position 4 and position 7 having the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Nle Abu Ile His Ala SEQ ID NO 18 or the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Nle Ala Ile His Ala SEQ ID NO 19 .

In another aspect the invention provides an Ang 1 8 analog or derivative with a thioether bridge between position 4 and position 7 having Ang 1 8 antagonistic activity in particular an Ang 1 8 analog or derivative having the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Nle Abu Ile His Ala Ile SEQ ID NO 20 or the amino acid sequence Asp Arg Nle Ala Ile His Ala Ile SEQ ID NO 21 .

An alkyl group is a straight chained or branched non aromatic hydrocarbon that is completely saturated. Typically a straight chained or branched alkyl group has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms preferably from 1 to about 10. Examples of straight chained and branched alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl pentyl and octyl. A C1 C4 straight chained or branched alkyl group is also referred to as a lower alkyl group.

An aralkyl group is an alkyl group substituted by an aryl group. Aromatic aryl groups include carbocyclic aromatic groups such as phenyl naphthyl and anthracyl and heteroaryl groups such as imidazolyl thienyl furyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyranyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl pyrazinyl thiazolyl oxazolyl and tetrazolyl. Aromatic groups also include fused polycyclic aromatic ring systems in which a carbocyclic aromatic ring or heteroaryl ring is fused to one or more other heteroaryl rings. Examples include benzothienyl benzofuryl indolyl quinolinyl benzothiazole benzoxazole benzimidazole quinolinyl isoquinolinyl and isoindolyl.

In some embodiments the present invention provides methods of treating brain conditions including administering to a subject who is suffering from or susceptible to one or more brain conditions an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist. As used herein the term angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist encompasses any molecule that has a positive impact in a function of an angiotensin 1 7 receptor in particular the G protein coupled Mas receptor. In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist directly or indirectly enhances strengthens activates and or increases an angiotensin 1 7 receptor i.e. the Mas receptor activity. In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist directly interacts with an angiotensin 1 7 receptor i.e. the Mas receptor . Such agonists can be peptidic or non peptidic including e.g. proteins chemical compounds small molecules nucleic acids antibodies drugs ligands or other agents. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is a non peptidic agonist.

An exemplary class of angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists are 1 p thienylbenzyl imidazoles. Examples of these non peptide angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists are represented by Structural Formula VI 

Ris halogen hydroxyl C C alkoxy C C alkoxy wherein 1 to 6 carbon atoms are replaced by the heteroatoms O S or NH preferably by O C C alkoxy substituted by a saturated cyclic ether such as tetrahydropyran or tetrahydrofuran O C C alkenyl O C C alkylaryl or aryloxy that is unsubstituted or substituted by a substituent selected from halogen C C alkyl C C alkoxy and trifluoromethyl 

In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is AVE 0991 5 formyl 4 methoxy 2 phenyl 1 4 2 ethylamino carbonylsulfonamido 5 isobutyl 3 thienyl phenyl methyl imidazole which is represented by the following structure 

Another exemplary class of angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists are p thienylbenzylamides. Examples of these non peptide angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists are represented by Structural Formula VII 

Ris C C alkyl that is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from NH halogen O C C alkyl CO O C C alkyl and COH C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C aryl that is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from halogen and O C C alkyl C C alkyl C C aryl where the aryl radical is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from halogen and O C C alkyl C C heteroaryl or C C alkyl C C heteroaryl 

Ris hydrogen C C alkyl that is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from halogen and O C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C aryl that is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from among halogen O C C alkyl and CO O C C alkyl or C C alkyl C C aryl that is unsubstituted or substituted by a radical chosen from halogen and O C C alkyl 

Additional examples of angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 235 766 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Various angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists described above can be present as pharmaceutically acceptable salts. As used herein a pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts that retain the desired activity of the peptide or equivalent compound but preferably do not detrimentally affect the activity of the peptide or other component of a system which uses the peptide. Examples of such salts are acid addition salts formed with inorganic acids for example hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid nitric acid and the like. Salts may also be formed with organic acids such as for example acetic acid oxalic acid tartaric acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid gluconic acid citric acid malic acid ascorbic acid benzoic acid tannic acid pamoic acid alginic acid polyglutamic acid and the like. Salts formed from a cationic material may utilize the conjugate base of these inorganic and organic acids. Salts may also be formed with polyvalent metal cations such as zinc calcium bismuth barium magnesium aluminum copper cobalt nickel and the like or with an organic cation formed from N N dibenzylethylenediamine or ethylenediamine or combinations thereof e.g. a zinc tannate salt . The non toxic physiologically acceptable salts are preferred.

The salts can be formed by conventional means such as by reacting the free acid or free base forms of the product with one or more equivalents of the appropriate acid or base in a solvent or medium in which the salt is insoluble or in a solvent such as water which is then removed in vacuo or by freeze drying or by exchanging the cations of an existing salt for another cation on a suitable ion exchange resin.

An alkyl group is a straight chained or branched non aromatic hydrocarbon that is completely saturated. Typically a straight chained or branched alkyl group has from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms preferably from 1 to about 10. Examples of straight chained and branched alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl pentyl and octyl. A C1 C4 straight chained or branched alkyl group is also referred to as a lower alkyl group.

An alkenyl group is a straight chained or branched non aromatic hydrocarbon that is includes one or more double bonds. Typically a straight chained or branched alkenyl group has from 2 to about 20 carbon atoms preferably from 2 to about 10. Examples of straight chained and branched alkenyl groups include ethenyl n propenyl and n butenyl.

Aromatic aryl groups include carbocyclic aromatic groups such as phenyl naphthyl and anthracyl and heteroaryl groups such as imidazolyl thienyl furyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyranyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl pyrazinyl thiazolyl oxazolyl and tetrazolyl. Aromatic groups also include fused polycyclic aromatic ring systems in which a carbocyclic aromatic ring or heteroaryl ring is fused to one or more other heteroaryl rings. Examples include benzothienyl benzofuryl indolyl quinolinyl benzothiazole benzoxazole benzimidazole quinolinyl isoquinolinyl and isoindolyl.

In accordance with the methods of the invention an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist as described herein of the invention can be administered to a subject alone e.g. as a purified peptide or compound or as a component of a composition or medicament e.g. in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of the disease as described herein. The compositions can be formulated with a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient to prepare a pharmaceutical composition. The carrier and composition can be sterile. The formulation should suit the mode of administration for example intravenous or subcutaneous administration. Methods of formulating compositions are known in the art see e.g. Remington s Pharmaceuticals Sciences 17Edition Mack Publishing Co. Alfonso R. Gennaro editor 1989 .

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include but are not limited to water salt solutions e.g. NaCl saline buffered saline alcohols glycerol ethanol gum arabic vegetable oils benzyl alcohols polyethylene glycols gelatin carbohydrates such as lactose amylose or starch sugars such as mannitol sucrose or others dextrose magnesium stearate talc silicic acid viscous paraffin perfume oil fatty acid esters hydroxymethylcellulose polyvinyl pyrolidone etc. as well as combinations thereof. The pharmaceutical preparations can if desired be mixed with auxiliary agents e.g. lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers coloring and or aromatic substances and the like which do not deleteriously react with the active compounds or interference with their activity. In a preferred embodiment a water soluble carrier suitable for intravenous administration is used.

The composition or medicament if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. The composition can be a liquid solution suspension emulsion sustained release formulation or powder. The composition can also be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides.

The composition or medicament can be formulated in accordance with the routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for administration to human beings. For example in a preferred embodiment a composition for intravenous administration typically is a solution in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer. Where necessary the composition may also include a solubilizing agent and a local anesthetic to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where the composition is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water saline or dextrose water. Where the composition is administered by injection an ampule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients may be mixed prior to administration.

An Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist as described herein can be formulated as neutral or salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include those formed with free amino groups such as those derived from hydrochloric phosphoric acetic oxalic tartaric acids etc. and those formed with free carboxyl groups such as those derived from sodium potassium ammonium calcium ferric hydroxides isopropylamine triethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine etc.

An Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist as described herein or a composition or medicament containing an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist described herein is administered by any appropriate route. In some embodiments an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist described herein is administered subcutaneously. As used herein the term subcutaneous tissue is defined as a layer of loose irregular connective tissue immediately beneath the skin. For example the subcutaneous administration may be performed by injecting a composition into areas including but not limited to thigh region abdominal region gluteal region or scapular region. In some embodiments an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist described herein is administered intravenously. Alternatively an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist described herein or a composition or medicament containing an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist described herein can be administered by inhalation parenterally intradermally transdermally rectally or transmucosally. More than one route can be used concurrently if desired.

In some embodiments a composition is administered in a therapeutically effective amount and or according to a dosing regimen that is correlated with a particular desired outcome e.g. with treating or reducing risk for ischemic stroke .

Particular doses or amounts to be administered in accordance with the present invention may vary for example depending on the nature and or extent of the desired outcome on particulars of route and or timing of administration and or on one or more characteristics e.g. weight age personal history genetic characteristic lifestyle parameter severity of cardiac defect and or level of risk of cardiac defect etc. or combinations thereof . Such doses or amounts can be determined by those of ordinary skill. In some embodiments an appropriate dose or amount is determined in accordance with standard clinical techniques. For example in some embodiments an appropriate dose or amount is a dose or amount sufficient to reduce a disease severity index score by 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 or more. For example in some embodiments an appropriate dose or amount is a dose or amount sufficient to reduce a disease severity index score by 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 . Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments an appropriate dose or amount is determined through use of one or more in vitro or in vivo assays to help identify desirable or optimal dosage ranges or amounts to be administered.

In various embodiments an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is administered at a therapeutically effective amount. As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount is largely determined based on the total amount of the therapeutic agent contained in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention. Generally a therapeutically effective amount is sufficient to achieve a meaningful benefit to the subject e.g. treating modulating curing preventing and or ameliorating the underlying disease or condition . In some particular embodiments appropriate doses or amounts to be administered may be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

Therapeutically effective dosage amounts of angiotensin 1 7 peptides or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists including derivatives analogs and or salts may be present in varying amounts in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of an angiotensin 1 7 peptide may be an amount ranging from about 10 1000 mg e.g. about 20 mg 1 000 mg 30 mg 1 000 mg 40 mg 1 000 mg 50 mg 1 000 mg 60 mg 1 000 mg 70 mg 1 000 mg 80 mg 1 000 mg 90 mg 1 000 mg about 10 900 mg 10 800 mg 10 700 mg 10 600 mg 10 500 mg 100 1000 mg 100 900 mg 100 800 mg 100 700 mg 100 600 mg 100 500 mg 100 400 mg 100 300 mg 200 1000 mg 200 900 mg 200 800 mg 200 700 mg 200 600 mg 200 500 mg 200 400 mg 300 1000 mg 300 900 mg 300 800 mg 300 700 mg 300 600 mg 300 500 mg 400 mg 1 000 mg 500 mg 1 000 mg 100 mg 900 mg 200 mg 800 mg 300 mg 700 mg 400 mg 700 mg and 500 mg 600 mg . In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is present in an amount of or greater than about 10 mg 50 mg 100 mg 150 mg 200 mg 250 mg 300 mg 350 mg 400 mg 450 mg 500 mg 550 mg 600 mg 650 mg 700 mg 750 mg 800 mg. In some embodiments an angiotensin 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is present in an amount of or less than about 1000 mg 950 mg 900 mg 850 mg 800 mg 750 mg 700 mg 650 mg 600 mg 550 mg 500 mg 450 mg 400 mg 350 mg 300 mg 250 mg 200 mg 150 mg or 100 mg. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one dose. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one day.

In other embodiments a therapeutically effective dosage amount may be for example about 0.001 mg kg weight to 500 mg kg weight e.g. from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 400 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 300 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 200 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 100 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 90 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 80 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 70 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 60 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 50 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 40 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 30 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 25 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 20 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 15 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to 10 mg kg weight. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one dose. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one day.

In still other embodiments a therapeutically effective dosage amount may be for example about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight e.g. from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.001 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.01 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.02 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.03 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.04 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 1 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 0.9 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 0.8 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 0.7 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 0.6 mg kg weight from about 0.05 mg kg weight to about 0.5 mg kg weight. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one dose. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective amount described herein is provided in one day.

In still other embodiments a therapeutically effective dosage amount may be for example about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.1 mg kg weight e.g. from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.09 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.08 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.07 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.06 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.05 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to about 0.04 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.03 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.02 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.019 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.018 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.017 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.016 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.015 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.014 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.013 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.012 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.011 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.01 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.009 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.008 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.007 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.006 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.005 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.004 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.003 mg kg weight from about 0.0001 mg kg weight to 0.002 mg kg weight. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective dose may be 0.0001 mg kg weight 0.0002 mg kg weight 0.0003 mg kg weight 0.0004 mg kg weight 0.0005 mg kg weight 0.0006 mg kg weight 0.0007 mg kg weight 0.0008 mg kg weight 0.0009 mg kg weight 0.001 mg kg weight 0.002 mg kg weight 0.003 mg kg weight 0.004 mg kg weight 0.005 mg kg weight 0.006 mg kg weight 0.007 mg kg weight 0.008 mg kg weight 0.009 mg kg weight 0.01 mg kg weight 0.02 mg kg weight 0.03 mg kg weight 0.04 mg kg weight 0.05 mg kg weight 0.06 mg kg weight 0.07 mg kg weight 0.08 mg kg weight 0.09 mg kg weight or 0.1 mg kg weight. The effective dose for a particular individual can be varied e.g. increased or decreased over time depending on the needs of the individual.

In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 1 000 g kg day e.g. ranging from about 1 900 g kg day 1 800 g kg day 1 700 g kg day 1 600 g kg day 1 500 g kg day 1 400 g kg day 1 300 g kg day 1 200 g kg day 1 100 g kg day 1 90 g kg day 1 80 g kg day 1 70 g kg day 1 60 g kg day 1 50 g kg day 1 40 g kg day 1 30 g kg day 1 20 g kg day 1 10 g kg day . In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 500 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 100 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose ranging from about 1 60 g kg day. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide is administered at an effective dose selected from about 1 2 4 6 8 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 75 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 or 1 000 ug kg day.

Various embodiments may include differing dosing regimen. In some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is administered via continuous infusion. In some embodiments the continuous infusion is intravenous. In other embodiments the continuous infusion is subcutaneous. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments the angiotensin 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist is administered bimonthly monthly twice monthly triweekly biweekly weekly twice weekly thrice weekly daily twice daily or on another clinically desirable dosing schedule. The dosing regimen for a single subject need not be at a fixed interval but can be varied over time depending on the needs of the subject.

In some embodiments an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist will be used as a part of a combination therapy. It is contemplated that any known therapeutic or treatment for one or more brain conditions may be used with one or more Ang 1 7 peptides or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists as disclosed herein. Exemplary compounds that may be used with one or more Ang 1 7 peptides or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonists as a combination therapy include but are not limited to thrombolytic compounds antioxidants or other reactive oxygen species agents interferon beta 1a e.g. Avonex Rebif CinnoVex ReciGen interferon beta 1b Betaseron glatiramer acetate Copaxone mitoxantrone Novantrone natalizumab Tysabri fingolimod Gilenya the first oral drug available and Teriflunomide Aubagio or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the present invention further provides kits or other articles of manufacture which contains an Ang 1 7 peptide an angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist or a formulation containing the same and provides instructions for its reconstitution if lyophilized and or use. Kits or other articles of manufacture may include a container a syringe vial and any other articles devices or equipment useful in administration e.g. subcutaneous by inhalation . Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes e.g. pre filled syringes ampules cartridges reservoirs or lyo jects. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. In some embodiments a container is a pre filled syringe. Suitable pre filled syringes include but are not limited to borosilicate glass syringes with baked silicone coating borosilicate glass syringes with sprayed silicone or plastic resin syringes without silicone.

Typically the container may holds formulations and a label on or associated with the container that may indicate directions for reconstitution and or use. For example the label may indicate that the formulation is reconstituted to concentrations as described above. The label may further indicate that the formulation is useful or intended for for example subcutaneous administration. In some embodiments a container may contain a single dose of a stable formulation containing an Ang 1 7 peptide or angiotensin 1 7 receptor agonist. In various embodiments a single dose of the stable formulation is present in a volume of less than about 15 ml 10 ml 5.0 ml 4.0 ml 3.5 ml 3.0 ml 2.5 ml 2.0 ml 1.5 ml 1.0 ml or 0.5 ml. Alternatively a container holding the formulation may be a multi use vial which allows for repeat administrations e.g. from 2 6 administrations of the formulation. Kits or other articles of manufacture may further include a second container comprising a suitable diluent e.g. BWFI saline buffered saline . Upon mixing of the diluent and the formulation the final protein concentration in the reconstituted formulation will generally be at least 1 mg ml e.g. at least 5 mg ml at least 10 mg ml at least 20 mg ml at least 30 mg ml at least 40 mg ml at least 50 mg ml at least 75 mg ml at least 100 mg ml . Kits or other articles of manufacture may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles syringes and package inserts with instructions for use. In some embodiments kits or other articles of manufacture may include an instruction for self administration.

Several animal models have been used to study cerebral ischemia in an effort to understand its pathophysiology and to identify therapeutic strategies for minimizing the severity of ischemic damage. Focal ischemia brings about localized brain infarction and may be induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion MCAO . A rat model of MCAO has gained acceptance as a model for hemispheric infarction in humans. After MCAO a cortical and striatal infarct with temporal and spatial evolution occurs within the vascular region supplied by the middle cerebral artery.

In the past several years ample evidence has been gathered regarding behavioral assessments in stroke animal studies including the MCAO rat model of ischemic stroke. Behavioral improvement is thought to be a reliable parameter for efficacy studies of potential therapeutics.

A desirable treatment for vascular complications of stroke would be a non invasive means of promoting neovascularization in ischemic tissues. Embodiments of the present invention provide such a therapeutic treatment. Binding of angiotensin 1 7 peptides on the cell surface of endothelial cells can rescue those cells from apoptosis induce their proliferation migration and formation of small blood vessels in vitro.

In this example the MCAO rat model was used to evaluate the dose dependent efficacy of angiotensin 1 7 peptides for example PanCyte in improving post occlusion function as measured by several accepted behavioral evaluations.

Animal handling was performed according to guidelines of the National Institute of Health NIH and the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care AAALAC . Animals were housed in polyethylene cages 5 cage measuring 35 30 15 cm with stainless steel top grill facilitating pelleted food and drinking water in plastic bottle bedding steam sterilized clean paddy husk Harlan Sani chip cat 2018SC F was used and bedding material were changed along with the cage at least twice a week. In this example a total of 60 rats were used and each rat weighed approximately 300 grams at study initiation.

Animals were fed ad libitum a commercial rodent diet Teklad Certified Global 18 Protein Diet cat 106S8216 . Animals had free access to acidified drinking water pH between 2.5 and 3.5 obtained from the municipality supply according to PharmaSeed s SOP No. 214 Water System . Animals were housed under standard laboratory conditions air conditioned and filtered HEPA F6 6 with adequate fresh air supply Minimum 15 air changes hour . Animals were kept in a climate controlled environment. Animals were kept within a temperatures range of approximately 20 24 C. with a relative humidity range of 30 70 and a 12 hours light dark cycle. Animals were inspected on arrival and were inspected daily for any signs of morbidity or mortality. Animals found in a moribund condition and animals showing severe pain and enduring signs of severe distress such as dyspnea lateral recumbency convulsions plegia or inability to reach food or water were humanely euthanized.

For the purposes of this example Transient middle cerebral artery occlusion tMCAO procedure Day is defined as Day 1 in this study. On the day of surgery anesthesia were induced with 4 isoflurane in a mixture of 70 NO and 30 Oand maintained with 1.5 2 isoflurane.

The tMCAO procedures were performed according to the method described R. Schmid Elsaesser et al. Briefly the right CCA Common Carotid Artery was exposed through a midline neck incision and carefully dissected free from surrounding nerves and fascia from its bifurcation to the base of the skull. The occipital artery branches of the ECA External Carotid Artery were then isolated and these branches were dissected and coagulated. The ECA was dissected further distally and coagulated along with the terminal lingual and maxillary artery branches which was then divided. The ICA Internal Carotid Artery was isolated and carefully separated from the adjacent vagus nerve and the pterygopalatine artery was ligated close to its origin with a 5 0 nylon suture SMI Belgium . Next a 4 0 silk suture was tied loosely around the mobilized ECA stump and a 4 cm length of 4 0 monofilament nylon suture the tip of the suture was blunted by using a flame and the suture was coated with polylysine prior to insertion was inserted through the proximal ECA into the ICA and thence into the circle of Willis effectively occluding the MCA. The surgical wound was closed and the animals were returned to their cages to recover from anesthesia. One hour and a half after occlusion rats were re anesthetized the monofilament was withdrawn to allow reperfusion the surgical wound was closed and rats were returned to their cages.

Animals were subjected to a modified Modified Neurological Rating Scale mNRS at 24 hours post reperfusion. Only animals with an overall score of 10 are included in this study. Animals were allocated into the test groups according to the mNRS results on day 2 in order to have similar distribution of rats performance between groups. Started on day 2 24 hours post surgery each animal is implanted subcutaneously with osmotic Alzet pump and is treated by continuous PanCyte administration 2.5 mg ml or 25 mg ml in PBS SEQ ID NO 22 . See Table 1 for group allocation 

Animals were tested for forelimb akinesia in a stepping test. The animal was held with its hind limbs fixed with one hand and the forelimb not monitored with the other while the unrestrained fore paw touches a table. The number of adjusting steps were counted while the animal was moved sideways along the table surface 85 cm in approximately five seconds in the forehand backhand direction for both forelimbs. shows the results of the stepping test at days 8 15 22 29 and 36. Four groups were analyzed in this test a control group receiving only PBS for 49 days a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 49 days a group receiving 500 g kg PanCyte for 49 days and a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 14 days. The data shows that each group receiving administration of PanCyte enjoyed increased performance of rats by day 22 as compared to control animals and that this effect continued through day 36 with increasing statistical significance. Additionally the group that was exposed to 50 g kg dose of PanCyte for 49 days performed significantly better than controls on day 15 as well while the groups exposed to either 500 g kg of PanCyte for 49 days or 50 g kg Pancyte for 14 days while trending toward improvement did not reach statistically significant levels at this time point in this particular experiment.

The limb placing tests were divided into both forelimb and hindlimb tests. For the forelimb placing test the examiner held the rat close to a tabletop and scored the rat s ability to place the forelimb on the tabletop in response to whisker visual tactile or proprioceptive stimulation. Similarly for the hindlimb placing test the examiner assessed the rat s ability to place the hindlimb on the tabletop in response to tactile and proprioceptive stimulation. Separate sub scores were obtained for each mode of sensory input and added to give total scores for the forelimb placing test 0 normal 12 maximally impaired for the hindlimb placing test 0 normal 6 maximally impaired . Scores were given in half point increments as follows Forelimb placing test whisker placing 0 2 visual placing forward 0 2 sideways 0 2 tactile placing dorsal 0 2 lateral 0 2 proprioceptive placing 0 2 for a total of 0 12. shows the results of the forelimb placing test at days 8 15 22 29 and 36. Four groups were analyzed in this test a control group receiving only PBS for 49 days a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 49 days a group receiving 500 g kg PanCyte for 49 days and a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 14 days. The data shows that each group receiving administration of PanCyte enjoyed increased performance on this test by day 29 as compared to control animals and that this effect continued to day 36. Also the group exposed to 50 g kg Pancyte for 14 days performed significantly better than control animals beginning on day 15 whereas the other treatment groups though trending in the same way did not reach statistical significance until day 29 in this experiment.

The rat was held approximately one inch from the base of its tail. It was then elevated to an inch above a surface of a table. The rat was held in the vertical axis defined as no more than 10 to either the left or the right side. A swing was recorded whenever the rat moved its head out of the vertical axis to either side. Before attempting another swing the rat had to return to the vertical position for the next swing to be counted. Twenty 20 total swings were counted. A normal rat typically has an equal number of swings to either side. Following focal ischemia rats tend to swing to the contralateral side left side in this example . Body swing scores are expressed as a percentage of rightward over total swings. shows the results of the body swing test at days 8 15 22 29 and 36. Four groups were analyzed in this test a control group receiving only PBS for 49 days a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 49 days a group receiving 500 g kg PanCyte for 49 days and a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 14 days. The data shows that each group receiving administration of PanCyte enjoyed improved performance on the test by day 36 as compared to the control group with the group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 14 days showed statistical significance beginning on day 29 as compared to control in this experiment. All treatment groups exhibited a trend toward improved scores beginning on day 8 as compared to the control group.

The Modified Neurological Rating Scale mNRS was administered by an individual who was unaware of the drug dose given blind test . The mNRS as administered allows for neuro scoring on a scale of 0 to 18 possible points. Animals with higher scores showed more severe symptoms and disability than lower scoring rats. shows the results of the mNRS evaluation at days 1 8 15 22 29 and 36. Four groups were analyzed in this test a control group receiving only PBS for 49 days a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 49 days a group receiving 500 g kg PanCyte for 49 days and a group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 14 days. The data shows that each group receiving administration of PanCyte enjoyed improved performance on the test by day 29 as compared to the control group. In addition to days 29 and 36 the group receiving 50 g kg PanCyte for 49 days showed statistically improved performance on days 8 and 15 and the group receiving 500 g kg PanCyte for 49 days showed statistically improved performance on day 22 in this experiment.

The animal model surgical procedures and animal care procedures and conditions were as described above for Example 1 unless otherwise specified. In this example a total of 105 animals were used and Table 2 shows the group allocation for this study 

Animals were subjected to a modified Modified Neurological Rating Scale mNRS at 24 hours post reperfusion. Only animals with an overall score of 10 were included in this study. Animals were allocated into the test groups according to the mNRS results on day 2 in order to have similar distribution of rats performance between groups. Starting on day 2 24 hours post surgery animals in groups 4 5 and 7 were implanted subcutaneously with an osmotic Alzet pump and treated with either 500 g kg TXA127 SEQ ID NO 1 500 g kg PanCyte SEQ ID NO 22 or 50 g kg Linear PanCyte SEQ ID NO 6 . Animals in groups 2 3 and 6 received 500 g kg or 1 000 g kg TXA127 or 500 g kg PanCyte administered subcutaneously via daily injection. Animals in group 1 were treated with a daily subcutaneous injection of a PBS vehicle .

Animals were tested for forelimb akinesia in a stepping test ST . The animal was held with its hind limbs fixed with one hand and the forelimb not to be monitored with the other while the unrestrained fore paw touches the table. The number of adjusting steps are counted while the animal is moved sideways along the table surface 85 cm in approximately five seconds in the forehand backhand direction for both forelimbs. shows treatment with TXA127 PanCyte or Linear Pancyte significantly improved the performance of treated rats in all experimental conditions by Day 21 post surgery as compared to the vehicle control condition. A trend of improvement is observed as early as Day 14 post surgery. It is of note that although only 50 ug kg of Linear Pancyte was administered the results are substantially equivalent to ten times as much TXA127 or PanCyte.

For the forelimb placing test the rat was held close to a tabletop and the rat s ability to place the forelimb on the tabletop in response to whisker visual tactile or proprioceptive stimulation was scored 0 normal 12 maximally impaired . Scores were given in half point increments see below . Typically there is a slow and steady recovery of limb placing behavior during the first month after stroke. shows that significant improvement in performance was observed in all treatment conditions as compared to vehicle control beginning on Day 14 and continuing through the duration of the study. It again appears that the Linear PanCyte group had the best performance particularly from Day 35 onward despite being exposed to a far lower dose of agent than the other experimental groups were.

Each rat was held approximately one inch from the base of its tail. It was then elevated to an inch above a surface of a table. The rat was held in the vertical axis defined as no more than 10 to either the left or the right side. A swing was recorded whenever the rat moves its head out of the vertical axis to either side. Before attempting another swing the rat must return to the vertical position for the next swing to be counted. Twenty 20 total swings were counted. A normal rat typically has an equal number of swings to either side. Following focal ischemia the rat tends to swing to the contralateral side left side in this case . Body swing scores are expressed as a percentage of rightward over total swings. Often there is a spontaneous partial recovery of body swing scores toward 50 during the first month after stroke. shows that the 1 000 g kg TXA127 TXA Alzet PanCyte Alzet 500 g kg PanCyte and Linear PanCyte groups all showed significant improvement in performance by Day 28 as compared to the vehicle control. The 500 g kg TXA127 group did not show significant results until Day 35. The 1 000 g kg TXA127 TXA Alzet PanCyte Alzet and Linear PanCyte groups all showed improvement by Day 21 and all experimental groups showed a trend toward improvement by Day 14. On Day 49 the TXA 1 000 g kg TXA Alzet and Linear PanCyte groups each appeared to perform at a near normal uninjured level.

The Modified Neurological Rating Scale mNRS was administered by an individual who was unaware of the drug dose given blind test . The mNRS as administered allows for neuro scoring on a scale of 0 to 18 possible points. Animals with higher scores showed more severe symptoms and disability than lower scoring rats. shows that each experimental group showed significant improvement in performance by Day 14 as compared to the vehicle control. The observed increased performance was maintained for the duration of the study.

These results show that TXA127 PanCyte and Linear PanCyte are all strong therapeutic candidates with the ability to dramatically improve the performance of animals post stroke. In addition to the performance benefits discussed above blood flow and blood vessel diameter was measured using Laser Doppler according to known protocols in each non Alzet group on Day 50. The results are shown in and show that animals in all assessed treatment groups showed significantly increased blood vessel diameter and blood flow compared to control animals by Day 50. In particular Linear PanCyte appears to have significantly improved therapeutic potential even beyond the other effective treatments tested in this example. These results are particularly surprising since the only difference between PanCyte and Linear PanCyte appears to be that PanCyte is cyclized while Linear PanCyte is not. Cyclization of a peptide is typically thought to allow a peptide to be more effective in vivo by making it more resistant to protease degradation. Linear PanCyte however is almost equally effective at a lower dose of 50 g kg as compared to 500 g kg of PanCyte in this example.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. The scope of the present invention is not intended to be limited to the above Description but rather is as set forth in the following claims.

