---

title: In-car driver tracking device
abstract: Disclosed are a device and method for providing driver tracking and behavior analysis, initiated without concurrent user input, by the presence detection of one or more drivers of the vehicle. Vehicle motion inferred from a location aware device sensor, as well as other driver smartphone sensors and application use are logged and analyzed to determine risk factors associated with identified drivers. Internet data sources are further utilized for associating road conditions and traffic regulations with the logged locations of the vehicle. Logged and analyzed data from the identified drivers is aggregated for reporting on vehicle risk.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09142142&OS=09142142&RS=09142142
owner: Kaarya, LLC
number: 09142142
owner_city: Signal Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130429
---
This application is a continuation in part of pending application Ser. No. 13 323 715 filed on Dec. 12 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 421 642. Both identified applications are incorporated herein in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to the field of vehicle telematics and location based driver tracking.

Driver tracking is a long standing problem with broad applications for parents company and fleet vehicles rental car agencies and vehicle insurance carriers. Previous solutions do not provide an ability to automatically and reliably track individual drivers when they are operating a vehicle. For each of these functions establishing the identity of a driver for a vehicle with multiple drivers can be highly relevant for example for an insurance carrier to assess the assumed risk when insuring the vehicle. Fleet management parents and other owners each have a special interest concerning the safe operation of vehicles.

Numerous efforts have been undertaken to monitor vehicle risk over time. A variety of systems have been proposed for monitoring vehicle behavior to assess risk U.S. Pat. No. 6 064 970 Craig et. al. at times including geo location as risk factors U.S. Pat. No. 7 343 306 Bates et. al. All of these have two key limitations including the inability to differentiate and measure behavior of individual drivers and the reliance on input from manufacturer vehicle sensor systems through the on board diagnostic system OBD . As explained below the OBD has its own set of problems including that a plurality of the available data is generally proprietary to the manufacturer. The difficulties for interacting or even reading manufacturer proprietary sensors was the motivation for the new open source interface standard pioneered by Ford research known as OpenXC. Unfortunately only a handful of even Ford vehicles are OpenXC compatible. The risk of a vehicle accident is not the only reason to monitor vehicles and drivers. Another is vehicle maintenance.

Vehicles particularly internal combustion engine powered vehicles require the replacement of consumable components or resources for extended operation. The most obvious of these is the vehicle fuel. Fuel gauges or charge gauges in the case of electric vehicles are prominently displayed to the driver. Drivers can thus generally predict when the fuel stored on board the vehicle will be consumed and can replenish the consumed fuel before the vehicle is stranded.

A number of other components of vehicles need regular service in addition to refilling the fuel but the determination of necessary service is not nearly as simple. This includes the engine lubrication the engine coolant system the vehicle braking friction surfaces the lubrication and air intake filters and spark plugs among others. Most important among these is the engine lubrication which has a widely variable lifespan depending on among other factors the operation of the vehicle and the environment of the vehicle operation. Although these variances are well known in the art they are difficult to track and most vehicle manufacturers recommend fixed intervals of vehicle mileage or time between servicing these vehicle components. Systems such as Jones U.S. Pat. No. 5 705 977 and Touhey U.S. Pat. No. 6 927 682 provide third party solutions for notifying drivers of required service based on manufacturer recommended maintenance service intervals. These systems are limited in many respects including their limitation for failing to account for variable vehicle operation and conditions.

Improved service interval reminder systems have been developed which account in some manner for vehicle operation such as Bai U.S. Pat. No. 7 129 827 which provides maintenance service interval adjustments based upon vehicle operating time and Muhlberger et. al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 533 900 a system for recommending service intervals based upon both mileage and various engine sensor readings used to detect high load conditions. Such modified service interval systems are useful but suffer certain limitations. Systems such as Bai U.S. Pat. No. 7 129 827 do not factor the load condition or operating conditions of the vehicle which may have significant impact on the service requirements of the vehicle. Systems such as Muhlberger et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 533 900 rely upon engine sensor input which may not be available for a particular vehicle and a connection to the vehicle odometer which is generally only available to the vehicle manufacturer due to the security sensitivity of the odometer electronic signal access.

Currently no service interval adjustment and notification system accounts for both mileage and load factors on the vehicle wear without reliance upon a direct connection to the vehicle sensor systems.

It is a general object of the invention to provide a platform for providing service interval notifications to a vehicle operator and to incorporate relevant vehicle operating conditions which most directly impact the longevity of engine lubrication and other wear prone components of vehicles.

It is a specific object of the invention to provide such a platform for service interval notification without reliance on vehicle sensor systems as such systems may not be available or may themselves but unreliable during the service interval.

One embodiment of the invention is for a device and system which provide a telematics solution for tracking individual drivers of a vehicle by identifying drivers by the detection of a short range data identification signal from a driver s mobile device. As is described below for providing a means for tracking a vehicle and analyzing the vehicle motion for determining vehicle service needs the ability to track individual drivers is an alternate embodiment of this invention.

Another embodiment of the invention is for a device and system which provide a vehicle owner or operator with predictive notification for periodic vehicle service. The implementation of this embodiment of the invention departs considerably from prior efforts to provide such a solution in several novel and important aspects. 1 The invention device and system do not rely upon any data or sensor connectivity with the vehicle 2 the invention device and system provide a standardized and vehicle independent intelligent means for monitoring relevant factors of vehicle wear and 3 the invention device and system incorporate new and novel relevant factors for adjusting the predicted service interval.

It is well known in the art that engine lubrication particularly for internal combustion engines is the most critical engine component that both prevents engine wear and is simultaneously most prone to deterioration and loss of efficacy. According to the treatise on engine lubrication wear and breakdown Significance of Tests for Petroleum Products ed. S. Rand Schwartz and Calcut pp 140 143 the most significant factors affecting internal combustion engine lubrication wear include a the amount of city vs. freeway driving b high load high temperature operation and c the frequency of cold and winter engine starts. According to Schwartz and Calcut wear during city driving is far greater than freeway diving as is the case during high load high temperature conditions such as extended mountainous driving. Most critical to rapid breakdown of engine oil which would require a shortened service period are the frequencies of cold engine at ambient temperature and winter a cold engine start with very low ambient temperature engine starts.

The findings of Schwartz and Calcut which although widely accepted in the art are not frequently utilized for adjusting service intervals. The present invention incorporates these findings in general and embodies them as model parameters into the service interval adjustment platform model of the invention.

Another component of these embodiments of the invention is the utilization of a location aware sensor device to provide an accurate and reliable sensor input for tracking vehicle motion and thus both mileage and operating patterns of the vehicle without any direct vehicle sensor input.

In one embodiment of the invention the platform device of the invention is an adapted use of an operator s smart phone which generally provides the capability of a location aware sensor such as the Global Positioning System GPS a means for wireless data communication with the Internet and a means for detecting proximity to the operator s vehicle such as by Bluetooth pairing or another means for detection of the identification signal broadcast by short range data transmission operation. An alternate embodiment of the invention is a dedicated on board device with these same attributes and likewise no direct connection to the vehicle sensor system. Another embodiment for tracking and reporting on individual driver behavior for risk analysis is disclosed below.

In the present invention when in proximity to the operator s vehicle the utilization of the location aware system provides a means for identifying and calculating vehicle operating conditions into four domains of engine wear factors including city vs. highway driving the cold start factor the winter start factor and the mountainous high load factor. Tracked vehicle mileage is adjusted according to these factors and compared against the manufacturer standard recommendation for service in order to obtain an improved vehicle service interval prediction.

In embodiments of the invention which incorporate individual driver identities the same method is used to initiate vehicle tracking by detecting the proximity or presence of a driver using short range data communication. In these embodiments of the invention the identification of individual drivers is also utilized during the data analysis and reporting. Driver identification is used for tracking not only the vehicle motion alone but for the vehicle motion attributed to individual drivers. For example by logging the driving and other risky behaviors of individual drivers the system can be applied to a variety of long standing problems. Disclosed is the application of the individual driver tracking to the adjustment of insurance premiums benefitting or penalizing lower than average or higher than average risk driving.

The device and system of the current invention in the preferred and alternate embodiments include a navigation position aware sensor a wireless communication component a programmable central processing unit CPU with associated volatile and non volatile memory for controlling and monitoring the system input and providing relevant output to the user via General Packet Radio Service or GPRS for example when queried or when the automated embedded intelligent system predicts an impending need for service.

The location aware sensor embedded within the device may utilize any available wireless location awareness system including but not limited to GPS GNSS GLONASS BD2 cellular tower triangulation WiFi triangulation or assisted GPS. This described embodiment of the invention utilizes the GPS system as the primary sensor input.

GPS or the Global Positioning System consists of a system of global satellites which continuously transmit very precise time signals via radio frequency broadcasts directed to the earth surface. Devices utilizing GPS for location awareness infer the latitude longitude time and elevation of the receiving device based on the differential between the timing of received GPS satellite broadcast signals. These 4 input parameters latitude longitude elevation and time are the primary input data for the invention device and system disclosed in preferred and alternate embodiments.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention shown in another primary input parameter to the system includes the driver identity as detected by the short range data communication capability which is utilized for proximity detection between the driver and the vehicle. Also as shown in vehicle motion is inferred from the device s accelerometer specifically unusual g forces within a specific range indicating the vehicle has either swerved or the driver has abruptly braked the vehicle. Either of these indicates high risk and repeated rapid braking has been identified as a means for detecting tailgating. The device microphone phone and other application activity provide additional input as further detailed below.

In this embodiment additional secondary information may be obtained from cloud services to determine local temperature or weather or driving conditions based upon location and time day. Other cloud sources are used to provide log input for localized traffic laws which can be matched with driver locations and motion for compliance.

The device of one embodiment of the invention tracks service intervals and makes relevant adjustments to such intervals for notifying the vehicle operator of necessary scheduled maintenance. provides a simple explanation of the device operation. When the device begins operating whether vehicle proximity is detected or the device is installed in the vehicle the location aware sensor of the device tracks the vehicle motion which is accumulated as total vehicle mileage an equivalent sensor to the vehicle odometer. As detailed below the engine wear factors are calculated based upon vehicle motion vehicle elevation and ambient operating temperature . Based upon these wear factors and the manufacturer s suggested service schedule an adjusted vehicle service interval is computed and compared against the accumulated vehicle mileage to determine whether the vehicle operator should be notified of an impending necessary service action .

In another embodiment of the invention which provides individual driver tracking and risk analysis for application such as fleet management and adjusting insurance premiums. provides a simple explanation of the device operation. and detail variations of this embodiment which include additional sensor input. When the device begins operating A initiated when vehicle presence is detected by the driver s mobile device or the device is installed in the vehicle and detects the presence of a driver the location aware sensor of the device tracks the vehicle motion A which is logged according to the detected identity of the driver and includes driven routes times and vehicle speeds driven as well as accumulated mileage A. As detailed below the risks associated with these driving habits and identification of drivers is determined according to routes and driving conditions. A. Based upon the driver logged behavior and driving conditions the risk or hazard factor is computed A. Driver identity is incorporated by factoring the age sex and driving record actuarial adjusted risk and a consolidated risk level is determined to compare against the average risk. Such a comparison may be utilized for example by insurance carriers A to determine any discount or surcharges that may apply to the vehicle coverage A.

In all embodiments of the invention the device initiates the process of logging and tracking automatically by the presence determination of matching a driver to the vehicle by monitoring a short distance communication signal protocol for known identification tags of a signal source. This is for example used in the process when paired Bluetooth devices link or during monitoring for devices in Bluetooth discoverable mode. This method is not unique to Bluetooth but can be utilized in a variety of short distance communication protocols well known in the art.

Regarding the service interval adjustment embodiment of the invention is an overview of methodology and logic utilized by the device to perform the intelligent monitor and notification functions. As mentioned above GPS is the chosen location aware sensor system for this embodiment of the invention and generates output data including the latitude longitude elevation and time as shown in . Mileage or the aggregate distance traveled by the location aware device is computed in with computational details outlined in . A straight line approximation of distances traveled by the device can suffer from sampling error analogous to aliasing error. Although the primary embodiment of this invention does not include methodology for correcting route errors the full invention claimed includes an alternative embodiment which incorporates one of several available route matching optimization techniques which are incorporated as and rely upon wireless data queries to mapping data sources such as Google or stored mapping databases such as Navteq .

Another point of novelty and utility of the disclosed invention is the capability to infer vehicle operating conditions which adversely affect wear without relying upon vehicle sensor data which varies widely between manufacturers and remains years away from standardization beyond basic emissions system sensor information. The invention capability to predict and adjust forthcoming regular vehicle maintenance is shown in components and . An embodiment of this invention to perform this function is detailed below and in .

Based upon published peer reviewed data sources including learned texts such as the aforementioned work by Schwartz and Calcut and Society of Automotive Engineers SAE research publications this invention asserts four operating conditions which are utilized to modify the normal service period predictions which are generally based only upon mileage or in the alternative based upon Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM specific sensor information. These four factors include a the percentage of city vs. highway driving b the frequency of engine cold starts following a period where the engine has sufficient time to dissipate heat and return to the ambient temperature surrounding it c the frequency of extreme winter cold starts which have been identified as an extremely high wear condition and d steep grade highway driving which places an unusually high load condition on the engine.

In order to determine if the frequency of the very high wear winter cold starts of the vehicle the ambient temperature is required. Potential sources for this information include an optional embedded sensor such as a thermocouple and associated data acquisition DAQ input for the system or by utilization of Internet based weather data such as the National Weather Service which have the ability via an available application programming interface API to provide real time temperature information corresponding to a latitude longitude query of the data provider .

Certain vehicle historical data are input by the user when the device is initially installed include either the vehicle identification number VIN or vehicle make model number and year as well as the current odometer mileage reading . This information is utilized to establish a baseline to compare with the manufacturer recommended service schedule intervals which in turn act as a baseline for the invention capability for adjusting service interval prediction according to unusual wear operating conditions. As detailed in this information is utilized to perform an optimization of vehicle service prediction .

A detailed outline of one embodiment of the invention device and process for the decision and computation to determine and accumulate logged values for city and highway driving are shown in . Parameters and Output data include the following 

The process or device operation for the invention embodiment which performs individual driver tracking and risk analysis for adjusting insurance premiums is shown in . As mentioned above once proximity is detected to an identified driver of the vehicle tracking initiates. GPS is the chosen location aware sensor system for this embodiment of the invention and generates output data including the latitude longitude elevation and time as shown in A. A logged record of the vehicle driving along with correlation with the identified driver are saved A and optionally may include driving conditions traffic weather rain snow fog A In order to incorporate detailed geographic information for the logs cloud based references A could be incorporated into route matching optimization A as described above and detailed in .

The driving log and risk assessment invention embodiment next incorporates the various operation risk domain assessments shown in A A A and A. First in A the driver accumulated driving mileage and driving time are incorporated as risk factors. The more time spent driving or the more distance driven are the most basic and obvious factors. Previous efforts have used the distance a vehicle has been driven as the sole factor for adjusting policy costs. This embodiment differs from these previous efforts in that it includes both the time driving and the identity of the driver. The fraction of mileage driven or time a vehicle is driven by identified higher risk drivers for a vehicle with multiple drivers is a novel feature of this embodiment.

Next in this embodiment of the invention the actual location of the vehicle and identity of the driver are factored into the risk assessment. For example if one lives in a safe suburb then commuting to the inner city everyday will increase the risk assessment. The reverse is also likely to be true. Also for fleet vehicle tracking rules regarding these factors have been implemented in fleet tracking devices but without the capability to identify the driver other than through the fleet records. Vehicle location risk factors are incorporated into the risk assessment A.

Of course an obvious risk factor is simply compliance with the rules of the road. This is addressed in this risk model and assessment A by incorporating input from municipality resources regarding posted and un posted vehicle code regulations for drivers A. Driver logs are compared against these retrieved regulations for compliance and for flagrant disregard or negligence.

System inputs latitude longitude time and elevation provide sufficient information for the current invention to determine the recognized and disparate wear conditions well known as highway and city driving.

Upon initiation of the device once the device is successful in its initial location determination at T the sample time in it continues to sample location information from the GPS system at intervals Tidentified above. The next sampled device location is stored according to at time T or T T . Earth surface land distance between locations sampled at Tand Tare calculated in this embodiment of the invention according to the accepted Haversine formula sin 2 cos cos sin 2 2tan 2 sqrt sqrt 1 seg where is the radius of the Earth 

Segment distance according to this formula is computed in . These computed values Dand the parameter T or sample time between location data points is output to a parallel routine via element to determine if the device vehicle is stationary and if so if it has been stationary long enough for the subsequent movement to be considered to be a cold start .

If the distance Dcomputed in exceeds expected variations due to sensor signal error device movement is affirmed and the device land speed during the interval of Tto Tis computed in 

Since location is based upon samples taken at discrete intervals rather than a continuous analog signal the speed computed in is the mean speed of the device during the interval Tto T.

An alternative embodiment of the invention utilizes multiple sample intervals before computing the device vehicle velocity in to compensate for signal and system variations among other possible aberrations and to improve system efficiency and accuracy.

Decision point assigns the distance and time associated with the segment or aggregation of segments in the multiple sample embodiment with either highway or city driving based upon a simple comparison to parameter V the threshold for determining highway driving velocity V

In the disclosed optional embodiment of the invention the available data for device elevation obtainable from GPS is utilized in and to log distance driven ascending extremely steep highway grades which constitute particularly high load operating conditions. The threshold for extreme grade conditions is set as parameter Grade load. A value of 4 highway grade is considered a default value for this parameter in this embodiment of the invention.

The grade for a particular segment of highway driving is computed in by dividing the distance by the change in elevation Grade .

Although GPS is known to be problematic for computing absolute elevations its relative accuracy between sampled positions is sufficient for the purpose of determining the route grade percentage. Mileage for highway segments driven under extreme grade conditions Grade Grade are accumulated into the system value Din D. D D.

The computed accumulated logs of mileage driven under city highway and extreme grade highway conditions are collected in and forwarded to the routine for computing the adjusted service interval mileage.

As an illustration of the practicality and utility of the disclosed methodology for determining accumulated city and highway miles are included. is an annotated version of the EPA highway drive cycle data used as an exemplar of driving characteristics which are typical for highway driving. Utilizing the methodology of the current invention as computing highway mileage based on device time and distances traveled in excess of threshold parameter V the analytical solution and visualization result is shown. The integration of the device speed over the interval of time spent in excess of the threshold is the analytic solution for the precise mileage of the vehicle 

The patterned area corresponding to the area under the curve A and B combined is the analytic solution shown graphically. The invention embodiment detailed herein provides a systematic approximation of this solution by utilizing discrete sampled intervals.

Similarly in the total city mileage corresponds to the area under the function V t during the periods for driving time when V t 

As an alternate embodiment of this aspect of the invention the standard On Board Diagnostic OBD pin corresponding to the engine on time may be provided on a limited exception to this invention s deliberate avoidance of OBD data since such data is currently standardized for all OBD equipped vehicles.

Inputs values from the basic distance and GPS acquisition routines which calculate device movement and sample frequency are incorporated into this analysis . Key to determining a cold start condition in the absence of on board sensor data is a determination of how long the device is stationary. A value in units of time Tis computed and accumulated T T Tas long as the device remains within the bounds of the location device signal error DE subsequent motion of the device is considered a cold start and accordingly logged Cold start log Cold start log 1 .

Once device movement such as this is logged as a cold start the ambient temperature is queried by either Internet based sources or by an embedded sensor within the device itself .

Engine starts that are not merely cold but that occur at ambient temperatures below a set winter threshold Temp

Accumulated log values for total cold starts and total winter starts for the engine are forwarded to the mileage adjustment routine detailed in .

Each time the mileage adjustment routine is initiated or run only the actual accumulated city highway and high grade highway miles D D D are factored as inputs . Similarly the logs of cold and winter starts Cold start log Winter start log are not modified by this portion of the invention system but used only as part of the predictive computation.

First a global correction factor for general wear of city miles driven vs. highway miles driven is computed. As an example for this embodiment a city mile is estimated to have the same wear as 2 highway miles thus the City driving parameter is 2 as computed in . City city multiplier 

 Cold starts are clearly a standard aspect of any vehicle operation and thus only an abnormally high frequency of cold starts is factored into the prediction adjustment. Cold start frequency per 100 miles is computed Cold start freq Cold start log 100 and compared against a threshold parameter considered by an abnormally high frequency of cold starts Cold start freq Cold start max. If such a condition exists which is measured across all city mileage accumulated a wear penalty is assessed increasing the effective or adjusted city miles Cold start factor.

 Winter cold starts which represent extreme wear condition are included as a penalty unless very infrequent. The frequency is computed Winter start freq Winter start log 1000 and then tested Winter start freq Winter start freq max. Operating a vehicle under frequent winter start conditions adds considerable effective wear mileage Winter start factor.

Highway steep grade load driving is penalized as a high wear operating condition grade factor and the effective highway miles driven are increased by the set parameter.

Finally the computed adjusted or effective city miles and adjusted or effective highway miles are deducted from the ideal or specified interval for periodic service set by the manufacturer This value is available at any time by query from the device operator and can be set to trigger predictive notifications sent to the operator s or owner s mobile phone by text message or to the owner by email .

After the device automatically initiates by presence detection and detects significant motion by monitoring the location aware sensor it begins logging computed motion locations time and the other sensor information as indicated below. Information is retrieved from the Internet pertaining to road conditions such as freezing weather snow ice rain or fog . Many sources are available for integrating online weather information into devices including the National Weather Service and commercial services such as HAMweather aeris weather API. Similarly online sources are used to log traffic laws corresponding to detected location information .

As reported by the Centers for Disease Control CDC distracted driving is known to be a paramount danger and risk for drivers and accounted for over 3 200 road deaths and 300 000 road injuries in 2011. In this embodiment of the invention phone activity is monitored as a distracted driving risk Various activities are ranked for risk factors. These includes use of the phone handheld hands free dialing the phone text messaging Internet browsing the use of social media and the use of other smartphone applications Also the microphone is monitored for excessively loud vehicle interior which could indicate a variety of distracted conditions . Here ambient noise is defined as the background noise in the interior of the vehicle as measured by the phone microphone. Such ambient noise can include road or vehicle noise sirens honking passenger shouting or talking and loud music among other sources. Various studies have been done which indicate varying effects on distracted driving from different sources. In various embodiments signal processing and the standard noise pressure A weighting scale adjustment may be used to refine the analysis related to the type and amount of distracting noise. For example a Fast Fourier Transform analysis may be used to determine the sound frequency spectrum and known human voice ranges may be detected and emphasized in the calculation. . In various embodiments the driver identity may be used in connection with traditional actuarial risk factors such as age sex driving records which are retrieved from a centralized data source . The same online database may be utilized for aggregating driver identities and logs . Finally the risk data may be compiled and analyzed then utilized for fleet vehicle and driver reports insurance carries or other owners such as parents .

In the alternate embodiments of the invention disclosed above the invention of tracking a vehicle and analyzing movement and other device sensor information for an identified utility is applied to driver risk assessment as opposed to vehicle wear assessment. In these alternate embodiments individual driver tracking is detailed and has wide applications from fleet vehicle driver tracking without reliance upon written logs which can be forged to insurance carrier vehicle premium assessment to parental supervision.

It will be understood that the particular embodiments described in detail herein are illustrative of the invention and that many other embodiments are applicable. The principal features highlighted herein may be employed in many embodiments within the scope of the claim.

