---

title: Cross-domain data artifacts consolidation in model context
abstract: A computerized method to provide an enriched unified model data index by generating a unified model data index by indexing shared syntax elements of data artifacts that describe engineering and non-engineering domains, creating instances of an engineering reference model describing model properties that define blocks and relationships between each of the data artifacts for each of the engineering and non-engineering domains, and enriching the unified model data index by adding the relationships having shared syntax elements of at least one instance of the engineering reference model to the shared syntax elements of the unified model data index.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367652&OS=09367652&RS=09367652
owner: GLOBALFOUNDRIES INC.
number: 09367652
owner_city: Grand Cayman
owner_country: KY
publication_date: 20130424
---
The present invention in some embodiments thereof relates to systems and methods of cross domain system engineering and more specifically but not exclusively to system engineering modeling of products and processes whose development maintenance improvement and usage utilizes engineering data artifacts spanning across multiple domains.

System engineering is used to model products parts of products processes and business process. The complexity of systems such as cars airplanes and personal electronic product e.g. Tablets smartphones is growing. The complexity of a system often cannot be comprehended by a single person and therefore skilled teams are often required for tasks of designing developing verifying testing maintaining improving manufacturing marketing and selling of products processes and or services. The team s skills are often interdisciplinary spanning across multiple engineering and non engineering domain such as hardware software electrical engineering mechanical engineering system architecture manufacturing computer human interaction industrial design etc. System engineering problem solving such as verifying requirements fulfillment design and cost concerns typically involves multiple disciplines and domains. Each of these domains typically has specialized engineering tools terminologies and workflow processes.

Applying each of the above mentioned skills as part of cross domain system engineering benefits from a consolidated view of the different domains. A consolidated view contributes to the coherency reliability and consistency of a system. The consolidated view allows an effect of design modifications in a one domain resonant to the design other related domains within the system. For example modifying the distance range of a driver seat may affect the requirements for safety testing and compliance with industry regulations. To maintain the range of a car s center of gravity the materials of the driver seat may be modified to lower its weight which in turn would affect the seat design. In this example the user experience domain affects diverse domains from testing and regulations compliance to industrial design and manufacturing materials.

Attempts to collaborate data across domains include practices such as 1 Peer to peer integration practices 2 Distributed integration systems and 3 Model to model interoperability. According to peer to peer integration practices engineering tools are required to provide interfaces that allow adaption of data to various environments for example programming SDK APIs or Web Services. Other practices relate to distributed systems which leverage relaxed interaction approaches for example the Representational State Transfer REST software architecture style for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web or Open Services for Lifecycle Collaboration OSLC . These practices attempt to provide new interaction protocol specifications to formalize basic resources and behaviors of domains. Other practices relate to model to model interoperability. Cross domain data collaboration and interoperability may further require definition of one or more transformations which map input model resources of one domain to target model resources of another domain. A sample transformation is an Engineering Bill of Material EBOM authored in Siemens Team Center Product Lifecycle Management PLM environment and transformed to the Manufacturing Bill of Material MBOM of a SAP environment Systems Applications Products . Such transformations may be defined by existing industry engineering tools using common standard languages like OMG QVT. Providing and maintaining content packs of such transformations and mappings require large investments of time and effort by vendors.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computerized method for consolidating data artifacts across domains in a context of an engineering reference model the method comprising generating a unified model data index by indexing a plurality of elements of a plurality of data artifacts wherein the plurality of data artifacts describe a plurality of engineering and non engineering domains creating an engineering reference model describing the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains enriching the unified model data index by adding a plurality of relations between a plurality of elements of at least one instance of the engineering reference model and a plurality of elements of the unified model data index.

Optionally the method further comprises presenting at least one part of the at least one instance of the engineering reference model. Optionally the method further comprises allowing access to at least one of the unified model data index and enriched the unified model data index. Optionally presenting is a cross domain view point across the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains of the engineering reference model. Optionally at least one of the plurality of data artifacts represent a multi domain engineering product and the at least one part of the at least one instance is selected according to at least one aspect of the multi domain engineering product. Optionally at least one aspect is selected from a group consisting of entire product functionality component specific functionality requirement verification manufacturing cost and bill of materials. Optionally the method further comprises presenting the data artifacts thereby allowing a drill down analysis of the at least one instance. Optionally the method further comprises acquiring a plurality of shared syntax elements the plurality of shared syntax elements describing at least one of a plurality of objects attributes and relationships of the plurality of data artifacts. Optionally at least one of the plurality of elements of the unified model data index is represented by at least one of the plurality of shared syntax elements in the enriching. Optionally the method further comprises augmenting at least one of the plurality of data artifacts with elements of the engineering reference model according to the plurality of shared syntax elements. Optionally generating a unified model data index further comprises filtering the plurality of elements of a plurality of data artifacts. Optionally adding a plurality of relations is performed by selectively mapping between the plurality of elements of at least one instance of the engineering reference model and the plurality of elements of the unified model data index. Optionally creating an engineering reference model selectively describes a subset of the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains. Optionally describing the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains comprises describing a plurality of cross domain relations across the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains. Optionally each of a plurality of instances of the engineering reference model enriching has a plurality of hierarchical relationships and the enriching is performed according to the plurality of hierarchical relationships.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a computer program product for consolidating data artifacts across domains in a context of an engineering reference model the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium first program instructions to generate a unified model data index by indexing a plurality of elements a plurality of data artifacts wherein the plurality of data artifacts describe a plurality of engineering and non engineering domains second program instructions to create an engineering reference model describing the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains and third program instructions to enrich the unified model data index by adding a plurality of relations between a plurality of elements of at least one instance of the engineering reference model and a plurality of elements of the unified model data index wherein the first second and third program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium.

According to an aspect of some embodiments of the present invention there is provided a system for consolidating data artifacts across domains in a context of an engineering reference model the system comprising a processor an indexing module which generates a unified model data index by indexing a plurality of elements a plurality of data artifacts using the processor wherein the plurality of data artifacts describe a plurality of engineering and non engineering domains an enrichment module which enriches the unified model data index by adding a plurality of relations between a plurality of elements of at least one instance of an engineering reference model and a plurality of elements of the unified model data index using the processor.

Optionally the system further comprises a modeling module which creates an engineering reference model describing the plurality of engineering and non engineering domains. Optionally the system further comprises an interface module which performs at least one of acquiring a plurality of shared syntax elements which model elements of a plurality of engineering data artifacts acquiring at least one engineering reference model presenting at least one part of at least one instance of an engineering reference model allowing a user to access an enriched unified model data index presenting a cross domain view point of the engineering reference model presenting the engineering reference model according to at least one aspect of the multi domain engineering product.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and or scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the invention exemplary methods and or materials are described below. In case of conflict the patent specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be necessarily limiting.

The present invention in some embodiments thereof relates to systems and methods of cross domain system engineering and more specifically but not exclusively to system engineering modeling of products and processes whose development maintenance improvement and usage utilizes engineering data artifacts spanning across multiple domains.

Current approaches to consolidating models from different domains such as the peer to peer integration approach require development of dedicated software component in order to enable cross domain connectivity and communication between multiple domain specific engineering artifacts.

The existing platforms based on one of the aforementioned cross domain data collaboration solutions may provide support for creating inter relations between different domain artifacts. For instance attaching a requirement to a test case each one defined in its own domain. These inter relations spans across different industry standard specifications. However it is still an open challenge as how to enable users to do a comprehensive reasoning and analysis of a product and or a process from different viewpoints merging together the different domains into a heterogeneous system view. Such a heterogeneous system view accounts for any type of relations and or the entire heterogeneous engineering data.

According to some embodiments of the present invention there are provided methods and systems of generating and presenting consolidated cross domain data artifacts in a context of an engineering reference model ERM and its instances. As used herein the term engineering reference model ERM means a meta model which is a collection of concepts things terms elements and the relations between them. The engineering reference model is used herein to abstract the properties of models from multiple domains. For example model properties may be system sub system product line component part etc.

An engineering reference model does not consolidate a set of domain specific models. As opposed to mega meta model approaches which aim at capturing an entire product process and or system in a single consolidated model the engineering reference model captures blocks and relations between them. Data artifacts such as test cases design model use cases and class diagrams are indexed. Indexing may improve data lookup and retrieval. The indexed artifacts are mapped to the blocks of the engineering reference model instances. Indexed artifacts mapping is performed during an enrichment process. The enrichment process results in a consolidated model with data artifacts put into a context of an engineering reference model.

According to some embodiments of the present invention domain data artifacts are consolidated and put into a context of an engineering reference model using the processes of indexing and enrichment. A set of engineering domain specific models from different engineering domains exist for some system of interest such as a cyber physical product. Each engineering domain specific model may have multiple data artifacts. Typically several engineering reference models and hence ERM instances are used to describe the same system. An engineering reference model is created which defines blocks and relationships between them. As used herein the term block means an entity which is used for decomposing and or managing a system design. Exemplary blocks are an engine a heating system and a navigation system. Typically a data artifact is associated with to a single block of a pivot view. Instance s of the engineering reference model also referred to herein as pivot view are generated. As used herein the term pivot view means an instance of an engineering reference model which models a specific system. For example an engineering reference model of a physical architecture of a hybrid car may have an instance of the physical architecture of a Toyota Prius. The original semantics of the data artifacts are mapped matches translated into consolidated semantics. The data artifacts are indexed to create a unified model data index. A pivot view is enriched by adding relations between its elements and the unified model data index elements. The result of the enrichment process is a consolidated model.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a consolidated model enables to search and query based on context of one or more engineering reference models to easily carry out an impact analysis based on context in the engineering reference model to efficiently drill down into the related engineering data artifacts to identified impacted blocks and blocks that are not impacted and or to represent a holistic representation of both an engineering reference model and its underling data artifacts.

Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components and or methods set forth in the following description and or illustrated in the drawings and or the Examples. The invention is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident

Software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Reference is now made to which is an illustration of domain data artifacts which are consolidated and put into a context of an engineering reference model by the processes of indexing and enrichment according to some embodiments of the present invention. Data artifacts are indexed to create a unified model data index . As defined herein the term data artifact means a by product which is used for describing a dimension of a product and or process such as function architecture element design element etc. Exemplary data artifacts comprise requirements and design model use cases model class diagrams and other UML models. Some artifacts such as project plans business cases and risk assessments are concerned with the development process itself. Data artifacts are used in disciplines as diverse as banking and the automotive industry Aerospace and deface. The data artifacts are generated by engineering tools. As used herein the term engineering tool means a platform for generating one or more data artifacts. Such a platform is typically software which manages domain specific artifacts and the relations between. Exemplary engineering tools are IBM Rational DOORS used for requirements managements Rational Change Management RQM used for testing management HP Quality Center used for quality assurance QA and quality control QC IBM Rational Rhapsody used for development of real time embedded components and software and Siemens Team Center used for mechanical design. Elements of data artifacts are first converted into elements of a system model declaration meta model before indexing . As used herein the term system model declaration means a low level of for representing data artifacts. Such a representation is composed of shared syntax elements and their relationships. Multiple data artifacts relating to a specific system of interest or a system of systems are indexed to create a unified model data index. As used herein the term unified model data index means a data index consolidating multiple data artifacts from multiple domains. Consolidation may be achieved by transformation to a common simplified semantics and or schema. This is the system model declaration. As used herein the term data index means data structure and its content which improves the speed of data lookup and retrieval operations on a stored data. The stored data may be in a data structure such as a database table or RDF data store. The increased retrieval speed comes at the cost of slower writes and increased storage space. Instancing of an engineering reference model results in pivot views . Pivot views of a product are optionally be based on product functionality componentization product configuration product line view product team view product assembly view product manufacturing view marketing view safety view or the like. In an enrichment process relationships between elements of the pivot view and the unified model data index are added. This result in a consolidated model with data artifacts put into a context of an engineering reference model . Representation of an engineering reference model may use existing methodologies such as but not limited to semantic web representation RDF based syntax and or OWL semantics to represent the data artifacts . Optionally EMF XML or any other representation methodologies which are aligned with the selected shared representation of syntax and semantics may be used. Optionally the enrichment process maps relevant requirement artifacts and or test artifacts to an ERM instance. Optionally the requirement artifacts are provided for example by Microsoft XLS worksheet and or Rational Doors. Optionally the test artifacts are provided for example by HP Quality Center.

Reference is now made to which is an illustration of a computerized method for consolidating data artifacts across domains in a context of an engineering reference model according to some embodiments of the present invention. A unified model data index is generated by indexing a plurality of elements a plurality of data artifacts . Indexing may be performed as follow each of the engineering tool that needs to share its data artifacts provides an adaptor which is responsible for providing transformation and filtering from the original schema of the tools to the unified model data index schema. The data artifacts describe engineering and non engineering domains. An engineering reference model is created . The engineering reference model creation may be performed before after and or parallel to the generation of the unified model data index . The engineering reference model describes multiple engineering and non engineering domains. Finally the unified model data index is enriched . The enrichment may be performed by adding relations between elements of a pivot view which is an instance of the engineering reference model and elements of the unified model data index. Optionally the enrichment further comprises adding new properties to existing elements of a unified model data index and or elements of a pivot view. This results in a consolidated model . Optionally enrichment specification may be due to a method defined by the user of systems such as department of defense architecture framework DoDAF ECSAM and Harmony etc. . Optionally new data artifacts are defined across domains as part of the enrichment. Optionally an engineering reference model is created before a indexing a plurality of elements a plurality of data artifacts .

The enrichment process may be performed once for multiple pivot views under the context of their shared ERM. Alternatively the enrichment process is done for each and every pivot view separately. For example a specific indexed data have 5 pivot views the enrichment is done for each one of them 5 enrichment processes altogether. The separate enrichment may be performed under the context of the ERM. Optionally the pivot views have hierarchical relations. The enrichment may be transferred from one pivot view to the next according to these relationships. Such hierarchical enrichment may be time consuming and less error prone as it would reduce the number of enrichment steps. The enrichment process may utilize one or more algorithms and techniques such as but not limited to 

Reference is now made to illustrating system for consolidating data artifacts across domains in a context of an engineering reference model according to some embodiments of the present invention. The system comprises a processor an indexing module and an enrichment module . For brevity it should be noted that computing functions described herein may be performed using the processor . The indexing module generates a unified model data index by indexing elements of data artifacts . The indexed resource information for each data artifact is kept in one or more repositories. These repositories may be accessible to a central indexing entity. Data access methodologies may vary and include push pull access active silent access dirty snapshot access or the like. The indexing type and technique may vary. Optionally the indexing methodology is Apache Lucene. Optionally the index is a combination of structure index traditional relational database or Resource Description Framework RDF base and unstructured text search such as Lucene based indexing.

Indexing is performed using a processor . Multiple data artifacts describe multiple engineering and non engineering domains as described in . The enrichment module enriches the unified model data index . The enrichment is performed by adding relations between elements of a pivot view and elements of a unified model data index as described in . The relations may describe dependencies and or constraints between two or more object elements. The relations may be unidirectional or multidirectional. Relations may be intra domain wherein object elements are all associated with a specific domain and or inter domain wherein object elements in a relation are associated with different domains. The relations between object elements may also span across engineering artifacts. Enrichment is performed using the processor .

Optionally the system further comprises a modeling module which creates an engineering reference model describing a plurality of engineering and non engineering domains. Optionally the system further comprises an interface module which performs at least one of 1 acquiring input data 2 present information and or 3 enable a user to perform tasks as detailed below. The interface module may acquire shared syntax elements. The shared syntax elements may model elements of engineering data artifacts . The shared syntax elements describe objects attributes and or relationships of elements of data artifacts between elements of data artifacts and or between data artifacts using a common syntax. Shared syntax elements may be terms phrases and or nomenclatures which are consistent between multiple products processes data artifacts and or system representations. For example one shared syntax element may represent elements in multiple data artifact which have different original terminologies. The shared syntax elements may be generated and or utilized during the enrichment process. Shared syntax elements may be generated by creating elements having characteristics such as a name identification number etc. The elements may be part of a unifying ontology. The unifying ontology may further include relationships between the elements such as hierarchical relationships contains part of etc. Shared syntax elements may also be generated by importing terms phrases words names and or expressions from external sources such as term lists databases etc. The interface module may acquire one or more engineering reference models . The ERMs may be provided to the interface module in their original terminologies and or using consolidated shared syntax elements. The interface module may present at least one part of at least one instance of an engineering reference model . Partial presentation of an ERM and or its pivot view may be desired for example in order to simplify a view or provide rapid access to commonly used elements and or operations. The interface module may present a cross domain view point of the engineering reference model . The interface module may present the engineering reference model according to at least one aspect of a multi domain engineering product. The interface module may allow a user to access an enriched unified model data index . The interface module may allow a user to perform an impact analysis.

Reference is now made to illustrating an exemplary engineering reference model according to some embodiments of the present invention. The syntax of the engineering reference model comprises 5 elements as its vocabulary System SW component HW component functional component and component . The relations between the elements are depicted as two types of connectors aggregation and type of . The elements and relations of this engineering reference model define a containment hierarchy for a complex system. Any instances of such a reference model must conform to the syntactic constraints and semantic mappings specified in the reference model .

Reference is now made to illustrating an exemplary instance of an engineering reference model according to some embodiments of the present invention. The enrichment process maps elements of data artifacts to elements of an engineering reference model and or one or more of its instances. Elements and relations of data artifacts may be related to more than one engineering reference model and or more than one ERM instance. The ERM may be generated by a third party tool for example an architecture tool such as IBM Rational Rhapsody.

Reference is now made to illustrating an exemplary system model declaration A with shared syntax elements A A according to some embodiments of the present invention. The system model declaration A is as described in . The shared syntax elements A A are as described in . This exemplary system model declaration A further comprises shared syntax elements A A such as A unified element A of type artifact a unified link A of type link and or a unified property A of type property. Shared syntax elements A A may relate A A to one another A and or to non shared syntax elements A. In this example the non shared syntax elements purpose is to better arrange the unified model data index according to the tools provider a specific project or a specific indexing grouping.

Reference is now made to illustrating a conversion of data artifacts elements B B to a shared syntax elements A A according to some embodiments of the present invention. Tools B B such as requirements B testing B and modeling B tools generate data artifacts . Data artifacts comprise data artifacts elements B B which herein refer to any data artifact entities comprising elements B B links B B etc. The data artifacts entities B B are converted to shared syntax elements A A. The shared syntax elements are as described in and or . Each tool B B may have an adaptor B B for performing the conversion. In the requirements tool B the requirement adaptor B converts the elements R1 B R2 B and R3 B to a shared syntax element A. The requirement adaptor B converts the intra data artifact links RL1 B and RL2 B to a unified link A. Inter data artifact links such as RTL1 B and TMEL1 B are also converted to a unified link B. Optionally an indication of the inter data artifact connectivity feature and or intra data artifact connectivity is made. The elements B B and links B B of the testing tool B and the modeling tool B are converted to unified links A and unified elements A in a similar manner to conversion of requirement tools elements B B and links B B described above.

Reference is now made to illustrating a unified model data index C according to some embodiments of the present invention. The unified model data index C is built according to the data artifacts elements B B and the shared syntax elements A A described in . Each element C C in the data index C has an identification field ID and a type field. The data artifact elements B B may populate the ID fields and or the type fields. The data artifact elements B B may further populate fields of the links and or properties. Optionally the original ID of a data provider A is kept for traceability of the original data artifact. Optionally the shared syntax elements A A populate any of the above mentioned fields. The unified model data index C provides the context of its elements. For example elements C C from requirement inode 1 are associated with a requirements data provider element C. The requirements data provider element C in turn is associated also with a project element C.

Reference is now made to illustrating a graph representing a variety of relationships between pivot views and data artifacts according to some embodiments of the present invention. The graph six pivot views of a common product. Each pivot model has data elements. For example pivot view includes data elements A C. The data elements originate from two domain specific engineering data artifacts. The two domains are represented by different shapes squares and hexagons . Each pivot view is presented by an oval hosting objects of these two domains. For example A represents a data element of the first domain while B and C represents a data element of the second domain . Relations between data artifacts comprise intra domain relationships for example A and A and inter domain relationships for example A . The relationships may be unidirectional or bi directional. The pivot views themselves may be related for example A . The pivot view relations may comprise all possible relationships as demonstrated in the graph relationships between data artifacts to themselves between data artifacts and domains between domains and pivot views between data artifacts and pivot views and between pivot views and themselves.

Reference is now made to illustrating a pivot view along with its unified model data index C according to some embodiments of the present invention. The pivot view similar to the data engineering reference model instance described in . The unified model data index is as the unified model data index C described in . A combination of the pivot view and the unified model data index may be provided to a user as a result output.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

It is expected that during the life of a patent maturing from this application many relevant systems and methods will be developed and the scope of the terms configuration management and baselines is intended to include all such new technologies a priori.

The terms comprises comprising includes including having and their conjugates mean including but not limited to . This term encompasses the terms consisting of and consisting essentially of .

The phrase consisting essentially of means that the composition or method may include additional ingredients and or steps but only if the additional ingredients and or steps do not materially alter the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed composition or method.

As used herein the singular form a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example the term a compound or at least one compound may include a plurality of compounds including mixtures thereof.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration . Any embodiment described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments and or to exclude the incorporation of features from other embodiments.

The word optionally is used herein to mean is provided in some embodiments and not provided in other embodiments . Any particular embodiment of the invention may include a plurality of optional features unless such features conflict.

Throughout this application various embodiments of this invention may be presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly the description of a range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as well as individual numerical values within that range. For example description of a range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed subranges such as from 1 to 3 from 1 to 4 from 1 to 5 from 2 to 4 from 2 to 6 from 3 to 6 etc. as well as individual numbers within that range for example 1 2 3 4 5 and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.

Whenever a numerical range is indicated herein it is meant to include any cited numeral fractional or integral within the indicated range. The phrases ranging ranges between a first indicate number and a second indicate number and ranging ranges from a first indicate number to a second indicate number are used herein interchangeably and are meant to include the first and second indicated numbers and all the fractional and integral numerals there between.

It is appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination or as suitable in any other described embodiment of the invention. Certain features described in the context of various embodiments are not to be considered essential features of those embodiments unless the embodiment is inoperative without those elements.

Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments thereof it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference into the specification to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference. In addition citation or identification of any reference in this application shall not be construed as an admission that such reference is available as prior art to the present invention. To the extent that section headings are used they should not be construed as necessarily limiting.

