---

title: Digital image and content display systems and methods
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems and methods for displaying images and contextually relevant content on a digital content platform, such as a web page. In one embodiment, for example, the systems and methods include: (1) providing a publisher of the image with a reference script for publication with the image, wherein the reference script is a computer-readable instruction that causes an end-user device to call to a content server; and (2) configuring the content server to (a) receive a request for content from the end-user device, (b) identify content that is contextually relevant to the image, (c) deliver the content to the end-user device, and (d) deliver a computer-readable instruction that causes the end-user device to perform an animation that modifies the image and displays the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as originally published.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09158747&OS=09158747&RS=09158747
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09158747
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 564 609 filed on Aug. 1 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 392 538 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 427 341 filed on Mar. 22 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 255 495 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for displaying images and contextually relevant content on a digital content platform such as a web page. In one embodiment for example the systems and methods include 1 providing a publisher of the image with a reference script for publication with the image wherein the reference script is a computer readable instruction that causes an end user device to call to a content server and 2 configuring the content server to a receive a request for content from the end user device b identify content that is contextually relevant to the image c deliver the content to the end user device and d deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that modifies the image and displays the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as originally published.

Prior to describing the present invention in detail it is useful to provide definitions for key terms and concepts used herein. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

Contextual Information or Contextual Tag data related to the contents and or context of digital content e.g. an image or content within the image for example but not limited to a description identification index or name of an image or object or scene or person or abstraction within the digital content e.g. image .

Contextually Relevant Advertisement A targeted advertisement that is considered relevant to the contents and or context of digital content on a digital content platform.

Contextually Relevant Content Any content e.g. text data images video controls applications interactive functions informational functions selected created identified tagged and or provided based at least in part on the subject. For example content that is contextually relevant to an image or contextually relevant content for the image includes without limitation any content that is selected created identified tagged and or provided based at least in part on the image.

Crowdsource Network One or more individuals whether human or computer used for a crowdsourcing application.

Crowdsourcing The process of delegating a task to one or more individuals with or without compensation.

Digital Content broadly interpreted to include without exclusion any content available on a digital content platform such as images videos text audio and any combinations and equivalents thereof.

Digital Content Platform broadly interpreted to include without exclusion any web page website browser based web application software application mobile device application e.g. phone or tablet application TV widget and equivalents thereof.

Image a visual representation of an object or scene or person or abstraction in the form of a machine readable and or machine storable work product e.g. one or more computer files storing a digital image a browser readable or displayable image file etc. . As used herein the term image is merely one example of digital content. 

Proximate is intended to broadly mean relatively adjacent close or near as would be understood by one of skill in the art. The term proximate should not be narrowly construed to require an absolute position or abutment. For example content displayed proximate to an image means content displayed relatively near an image but not necessarily abutting or within the image. To clarify content displayed proximate to an image also includes content displayed abutting or within the image. In another example content displayed proximate to an image means content displayed on the same screen page or web page as the image. 

Publisher Party that owns provides and or controls a digital content platform or third party charged with providing maintaining and or controlling ad space on a digital content platform.

Before the present invention is described in greater detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. The scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Except for any term definitions that conflict with the term definitions provided herein the following related co owned and co pending applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 902 066 13 005 217 13 005 226 13 045 426 29 387 270 29 387 271 29 387 272 29 387 273 13 151 110 13 219 460 13 252 053 29 403 731 29 403 732 29 403 733 29 403 734 29 403 826 13 296 124 13 299 280 13 308 401 and 13 352 188.

A growing trend in modern computing devices is to limit screen sizes in order to make devices more compact and portable. For example where the desktop computer was once commonplace more recently end users are accessing software programs and the Internet on small mobile devices such as tablets and mobile phones. Further even when a user accesses the Internet on a relatively larger screen monitor limitations with the size of web browsers application interfaces and pixel count create limitations on the amount of content a publisher can effectively provide on a digital content platform. The problem is compounded when publishers try to cram images videos text and advertisements into a relatively small amount of space without ruining the aesthetic look of the publication. As such a publisher desires to maximize their use of space when publishing content on a digital content platform.

Images are typically the most information rich content a publisher can provide. Images provide condensed high density information. Publishers however seldom have the mechanisms to make an image interactive so as to provide additional supplemental content if when a reader is interested in the image. For example a travel blog publisher may post an image of a hike he conducted through Yosemite National Park along with text describing his hike. A reader of the blog may see the image and wonder How do I get to Yosemite National Park Where can I buy the bag the hiker is wearing Where can I buy the shoes the hiker is wearing How can I share this image with my friends If the travel blog publisher wishes to add advertisements on how to get to Yosemite National Park where to buy the hiking bag where to buy the hiking shoes a link to share the image with friends etc. the blog could quickly become overcrowded with information functionality etc. Additionally the travel blog publisher most likely prefers to concentrate his time on creating additional blog postings instead of trying to identify and create content for all possible end user considerations relative to each image he publishes.

The present invention generally relates to computer implemented systems and methods for providing and displaying contextually relevant content for an image published on a digital content platform. The present invention thereby provides means for publishers to effectively maximize their use of space on a digital content platform. In conjunction with the systems and methods presented a publisher can provide an image on a digital content platform and a service provider can provide contextually relevant content relative to the image if when a reader i.e. an end user interacts with or shows interest in the image. In one embodiment for example the presented systems and methods include 1 providing a publisher of the image with a reference script for publication with the image wherein the reference script is a computer readable instruction that causes an end user device to call to a content server maintained by a service provider and 2 configuring the content server to a receive a request for content from the end user device b identify content that is contextually relevant to the image c deliver the content to the end user device and d deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that displays the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as originally published.

As such in the example provided above the travel blog publisher would simply publish the blog post with the image of his hike along with the text describing his hike. The travel blog publisher would also publish his blog post with a reference script that causes a reader s end user device to call to the service provider. The service provider s system can then analyze the image via a content decision engine as discussed below and identify contextually relevant content for the image. If and when the reader shows interest in the image by for example mousing over the image touching clicking the image etc. the service provider then provides the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image without affecting any of the other content on the web page. For example the service provider can provide computer readable instructions that cause the end user device to create an animation that flips the image and thereafter displays the contextually relevant content on the apparent backside of the image. In another embodiment the animation completely covers the originally published image with contextually relevant content. By flipping or completely covering the originally published image the publisher may limit the risk of any potential misunderstanding or misrepresentation of an endorsement of the contextually relevant content by the persons or places within the image. The contextually relevant content may include for example advertisement links for objects within the image information about the contents of the image additional software applications allowing the user to perform functions such as save share print etc. on the image.

The following detailed description of the figures refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments. Other embodiments are possible. Modifications may be made to the embodiments described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the following detailed description is not meant to be limiting.

A service provider provides a software widget e.g. web widget executable computer code computer readable instructions reference script HTML script etc. for inclusion in the digital content platform . In one embodiment the software widget analyzes the digital content platform in order to identify any and all of the images published on the platform. For example the software widget can provide the function of scraping the platform for images e.g. by walking the DOM nodes on an HTML script of a web page . In one embodiment the software widget can be configured to identify published images that meet predefined characteristics attributes and or parameters. The software widget then provides or otherwise identifies the images to the service provider for further analysis. The analysis of the images typically occurs within a content decision engine which may run within or in conjunction with the service provider s dedicated content server .

Within the content decision engine the one or more published images are analyzed to identify contextually relevant content associated with the published image. For example if the image depicts a professional athlete contextually relevant content may include information about the athlete s career recent activities associated product advertisements etc. In another example if the image depicts a vacation setting the contextually relevant content may include where the setting is located advertisements on how to get to the vacation site and other relevant information. Such contextually relevant content is then provided back to the digital content platform for publication in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as further discussed below.

To function as a means for identifying contextually relevant content for the image the content decision engine may employ analysis system components such as algorithmic identification or analysis of the image image recognition protocols and analysis of the image proximate text recognition in search of contextual information of the image based on text published proximate to the image submission of the image to a crowdsource network to identify the context of the image and tag the image with relevant data a thematic tagging engine to identify and tag the image with relevant data based on a pre defined theme publisher provided information database and or any combinations or equivalents thereof. Aspects of the system components of the content decision engine are described in the above identified related applications which have been incorporated by reference herein.

For example within the algorithmic identification system component an analysis may be performed to identify data tags or other attributes of the image. Such attributes may then be used to identify and select contextually relevant content that matches the same attributes. For example an algorithm may be provided that identifies contextually relevant content having the same subject tag and size of the published image. Such contextually relevant content is then provided back to the end user device for display in spatial relationship with the originally published image.

Image recognition system component may employ one or more image recognition protocols in order to identify the subject matter of the image. An output of the image recognition system component may then be used to identify and select contextually relevant content to be provided back to the end user device. Image recognition algorithms and analysis programs are publicly available see for example Wang et al. Content based image indexing and searching using Daubechies wavelts Int J Digit Libr 1997 1 311 328 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Text recognition system component may collect and analyze text that is published proximate to the image. Such text may provide contextual clues as to the subject matter of the image. Such contextual clues may then be used to identify and select contextually relevant content to be provided back to the end user device. Examples of text recognition system components are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 005 217 which has been incorporated herein by reference.

A crowdsource network alone or in combination with the additionally mentioned system components may also be provided to identify and select contextually relevant content. In one embodiment for example a crowdsource network is provided with an interface for receiving viewing and or tagging images published on one or more digital content platforms. The crowdsource network can be used to identify the context of the image and or identify and select contextually relevant content that is associated with the image. The crowdsource network may be provided with specific instructions on how to best match images with associated content.

A thematic tagging engine alone or in combination with the additionally mentioned system components may also be provided to identify and select contextually relevant content. In one embodiment for example the thematic tagging engine works in conjunction with a crowdsource network to receive view and or tag images published on one or more digital content platforms based on specific themes. Themes may include marketable considerations provided by one or more third party merchants wishing to use the published images as an advertising mechanism. Examples of thematic tagging systems are described in more detail in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 299 280 which has been incorporated herein by reference.

The content decision engine may also be directly linked to the publisher to collect publisher provided information with respect to the published image. For example the publisher may provide criteria for selecting which images are subject to analysis. The publisher may also be provided with a dashboard or interface to configure various settings for the service provider s analysis. For example the publisher can select what categories of contextually relevant content e.g. in the form of informational categories interactive functions etc. to be provided with respect to the published images. In one example the publisher may select interactive applications as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 308 401 which has been incorporated herein by reference. The publisher may also select what third party merchants may be used to provide advertisements for any particular image or subset of images .

In operation the service provider s software widget monitors the user s interactions with the image . If the user activates the image by for example clicking on a hotspot mousing over the image viewing the image for a defined period of time etc. the software widget sends a call to the service provider e.g. the service provider s content server and or content decision engine to request contextually relevant content for the image. The software widget or an associated child widgets receives the contextually relevant content from the service provider performs an animation on the image and then displays the contextually relevant content in a spatial relationship with respect to the originally published image. For example in one embodiment the software widget employs Cascading Style Sheets CSS language to perform a flip animation on the image so as to show the contextually relevant content on the apparent backside of the image. In alternative embodiments other computer language may be used to perform the animate such as JavaScript and HTML 5 Canvas. Preferably the software widget displays the contextually relevant content within the same pixel profile i.e. the same pixel space of the originally published image . As such the contextually relevant content can be displayed without affecting any of the other content published on the digital content platform . Further by providing the contextually relevant content with a spatial relationship with respect to the image the user is more focused on the contextually relevant content without ruining the original aesthetic design provided by the publisher .

In operation a publisher maintains an HTML web page script on a server Arrow A . The publisher also inserts a reference script directed to a dedicated content server maintained by a service provider Arrow B . A user then employs an end user device and web browser to access the HTML web page script via the Internet Arrow C . The user s web browser then loads the HTML web page script as a viewable web page within the web browser . The web page may include content such as an image and text . The image may include one or more hotspots or other means of activating the image. In one embodiment the image is not originally published with a hotspot but instead has a hotspot activated after the service provider has identified and analyzed the image.

Arrow E indicates the reference script calling to the service provider and more specifically to the content decision engine in order for the service provider to identify the image and identify content that is contextually relevant to the image. Such contextually relevant content is then returned to the end user device for display within the web browser as shown by Arrow F. Preferably the contextually relevant content is shown within the same pixel frame or pixel profile as the originally published image . In practice the reference script may be used to initiate a direct data link between the end user device and the service provider . In one embodiment such direct data link is provided by creating a direct communication link not shown between the end user device and the content server . As such the service provider can deliver executable code or text instructions that can be compiled into executable code directly to the end user device . In one embodiment the executable code or instructions is processed by the web browser on the end user device to display the contextually relevant content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image . Such executable code or instructions may be configured to modify or otherwise animate the image in order to highlight to the user that the contextually relevant content is specifically related to the image .

As shown a publisher provides an HTML web page from its server and includes a reference to an image on its image database and an embed code received from the service provider . A user then employs an end user device and web browser to access the web page script on the publisher s server . The user s web browser then loads the web page . The web page may include content such as an image and text . The image may include one or more hotspots or other means of activating the image. In one embodiment the image is not originally published with a hotspot but instead has a hotspot activated after the service provider has identified and analyzed the image.

The embed code functions to call on the service provider . The embed code may also create a direct link between the end user device and the service provider . As such the service provider can deliver software code or corresponding computer readable instructions that function to 1 identify one or more images published on the web page 2 identify and or set event handlers that watch for user activity and or 3 collect data on the image text user publisher and any other valuable information for analyzing the image and identifying contextually relevant content that may be beneficial to the user. In one embodiment the software code or corresponding computer readable instructions may be pre configured by the service provider the publisher and or a third party merchant to only identify and analyze images that meet certain pre set criteria. For example if the publisher wants to use his images for advertisement purposes the service provider can identify images that meet marketable requirements set by either the publisher or a third party merchant in order to identify contextually relevant advertisements to display in a spatial relationship with the image.

After identifying the published image the service provider processes the image or multiple images through a content decision engine in order to identify content that is contextually relevant to the image s . Such contextually relevant content is then returned to the end user device for display within the web browser . Arrow also indicates that the service provider provides executable code or computer readable instructions that can be compiled into executable code to modify or otherwise animate Arrow A of the image in order to highlight to the user that the contextually relevant content is specifically related to the image . For example in one embodiment the executable code or computer readable instructions that can be compiled into executable code employs CSS language to perform a flip animation on the image so as to show the contextually relevant content on the apparent backside of the image. Preferably the executable code or computer readable instructions that can be compiled into executable code displays the contextually relevant content within the same pixel profile i.e. the same pixel space or same screen location of the originally published image . As such the contextually relevant content can be displayed without affecting any of the other content published on the web page .

To function as a means for identifying contextually relevant content for the image the content decision engine may employ analysis system components such as algorithmic identification or analysis of the image image recognition protocols and analysis of the image proximate text recognition in search of contextual information of the image based on text published proximate to the image submission of the image to a crowdsource network to identify the context of the image and tag the image with relevant data a thematic tagging engine to identify and tag the image with relevant data based on a pre defined theme publisher provided information database and or any combinations or equivalents thereof.

In one embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method for displaying contextually relevant content associated with an image published on a digital content platform. The method comprises 1 providing a publisher of the image with a reference script for publication with the image wherein the reference script is a computer readable instruction that causes an end user device to call to a content server and 2 configuring the content server to a receive a request for content from the end user device b identify the published image c identify content that is contextually relevant to the image d deliver the content to the end user device and e deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that displays the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as originally published. The content may be identified by a crowdsourcing network a thematic tagging engine a computer based algorithm an image recognition engine a text recognition engine that identifies text published proximate to the image on the digital content platform based on publisher provided data and or any additional equivalent means. The computer readable instructions which cause the end user device to perform the animation may incorporate CSS language JavaScript language HTML 5 Canvas language or any equivalent language. The spatial relationship may be defined such that the content appears to be displayed on a backside of the image. The spatial relationship may also and or alternatively be defined such that the content is displayed within a pixel profile of the image as originally published. For example in one embodiment the spatial relationship is defined such that the animation and or contextually relevant content completely covers the originally published image. The content server may further be configured to 3 deliver computer readable instructions that cause the end user device to identify whether the image meets one or more pre defined requirements before calling to the content server 4 deliver computer readable instructions that require the end user to activate the image before calling to the content server and or 5 deliver computer readable instructions that cause the end user device to communicate data directly with the content server.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method for displaying contextually relevant content associated with an image published on a digital content platform. The method includes 1 providing a publisher of the image with an embed code for publication with the image wherein the embed code is a computer readable instruction that causes an end user device to call to a dedicated content server and 2 configuring the dedicated content server to a receive a request for content from the end user device b identify the published image c identify contextually relevant content for the image d deliver the contextually relevant content to the end user device and e deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that modifies the image and thereafter displays the contextually relevant content in a spatial relationship with the image as originally published. The contextually relevant content may be identified by a crowdsourcing network a thematic tagging engine a computer based algorithm an image recognition engine a text recognition engine that identifies text published proximate to the image on the digital content platform based on publisher provided data and or any additional equivalent means. The computer readable instructions which cause the end user device to perform the animation that modifies the image may incorporate CSS language JavaScript language HTML 5 Canvas language or any equivalent language. The spatial relationship may be defined such that the contextually relevant content appears to be displayed on a backside of the image. The embed code may include computer readable instructions that cause the end user device to identify whether the image meets one or more pre defined requirements before calling to the dedicated content server. The embed code may include computer readable instructions that require the end user to activate the image with a user actionable event before calling to the dedicated content server. The dedicated server may be further configured to deliver computer readable instructions that cause the end user device to communicate data directly with the dedicated server.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method of displaying contextually relevant content e.g. advertisements on images published on a digital content platform e.g. images published within a mobile application on a mobile device . The method includes providing the digital content platform e.g. the mobile application on the mobile device with an interface for 1 a user to activate the image and or 2 the digital content platform to send images image identifiers image hashes image unique reference locators URLs etc. to a service provider computer system. The interface can be in the form of hotspots icons or other actionable buttons as well as an application programming interface linked to the service provider computer system. When the user activates the interface e.g. by touching a screen icon the image or image identifier etc. is sent to a service provider for processing. The service provider s computer system receives a request for content from the user s device based on the user s activation of the icon. The service provider s computer system can then a identify the published image b identify content that is contextually relevant to the image c deliver the content to the end user device and or d deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that displays the content in a spatial relationship with respect to the image as originally published. In this way mobile applications i.e. apps that display or scroll multiple images across a limited screen space can employ the teachings of this invention to monetize the displayed images without compromising the aesthetics of the mobile application. In other words the mobile application can be set up so as to continue to display multiple images without associated advertisements. If and when a user is interested in a particular image the user can activate an icon requesting additional content. The service provider can process the image through its content decision engine and return relevant content e.g. advertisements back to the mobile application. An animation may then be employed to for example flip the image and display the relevant content on the backside of the image. In another embodiment the animation can overlay the content onto the image itself. Preferably the content is displayed with the same pixel space or at least relatively close to the same pixel space as the originally published image. As such the relevant content can be displayed only if and when a user is actually interested in seeing additional relevant content. The display of the additional relevant content can be done without ruining the aesthetics of the mobile application. The relevant content can include links to advertisers merchants where the user can purchase goods or services related to the contents context of the originally displayed image.

In one embodiment communication between the various parties and components of the present invention is accomplished over a network consisting of electronic devices connected either physically or wirelessly wherein digital information is transmitted from one device to another. Such devices e.g. end user devices and or servers may include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld device or PDA a cellular telephone a set top box an Internet appliance an Internet TV system a mobile device or tablet or systems equivalent thereto. Exemplary networks include a Local Area Network a Wide Area Network an organizational intranet the Internet or networks equivalent thereto. The functionality and system components of an exemplary computer and network are further explained in conjunction with below.

In one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. For example is a schematic drawing of a computer system used to implement the methods presented above. Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a local or remote display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive flash memory device etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk flash memory device etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software instructions and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow computer software instructions and or data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows computer software instructions and or data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link a wireless communication link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer readable storage medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive removable storage units data transmitted via communications interface and or a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . These computer program products provide computer software instructions and or data to computer system . These computer program products also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from the computer program products software. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the presented methods. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where appropriate the processor associated components and equivalent systems and sub systems thus serve as means for performing selected operations and functions. Such means for performing selected operations and functions also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform said selected operations and functions.

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive communications interface or equivalents thereof. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions and methods described herein.

In another embodiment the methods are implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions and methods described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s . In yet another embodiment the methods are implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Embodiments of the invention including any systems and methods described herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. and others. Further firmware software routines instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing firmware software routines instructions etc.

For example in one embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium stored on a content server for displaying contextually relevant content associated with an image published on a digital content platform. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a receive a request for content from an end user device wherein the end user device is directed to the content server via a reference script published with the image on the digital content platform b identify contextually relevant content for the image c deliver the contextually relevant content to the end user device and d deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that modifies the image and thereafter displays the contextually relevant content in a spatial relationship with the image as originally published. The computer readable storage medium may further comprise instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to e provide the image to a crowdsourcing network and receive the contextually relevant content from the crowdsourcing network f provide the image to a thematic tagging engine and receive the contextually relevant content from the thematic tagging engine g deliver the image to the thematic tagging engine and receive at least one thematic tag from the thematic tagging engine h identify contextually relevant content for the image based on the thematic tag i identify whether the image meets one or more pre defined requirements and or j require the end user to activate the image with a user actionable event before calling to the dedicated content server. The contextually relevant content for the image may be identified based on text published proximate to the image on the digital content platform. The computer readable instruction which causes the end user device to perform the animation that modifies the image may incorporate CSS language JavaScript language HTML 5 Canvas language or any equivalent language. The spatial relationship may be defined such that the contextually relevant content appears to be displayed on a backside of the image.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium stored on a dedicated content server for displaying contextually relevant content associated with an image published on a digital content platform comprising instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a receive a request for content from an end user device wherein the end user device is directed to the dedicated content server via embed code published along with the image on the digital content platform b identify the published image c identify contextually relevant content for the image d deliver the contextually relevant content to the end user device and e deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to perform an animation that modifies the image and thereafter displays the contextually relevant content in a spatial relationship with the image as originally published. The computer readable storage medium may further comprise instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to f deliver the image to the crowdsourcing network and receive contextually relevant content from the crowdsourcing network g deliver the image to the thematic tagging engine and receive at least one thematic tag from the thematic tagging engine h identify contextually relevant content for the image based on the thematic tag i identify whether the image meets one or more pre defined requirements and or j deliver a computer readable instruction that causes the end user device to require the end user to activate the image with a user actionable event before calling to the dedicated content server. The contextually relevant content for the image may be identified with a crowdsourcing network a thematic tagging engine and or based on text published proximate to the image on the digital content platform. The computer readable instruction which causes the end user device to perform the animation that modifies the image may incorporate CSS language JavaScript language HTML 5 Canvas language or any equivalent language. The spatial relationship may be defined such that the contextually relevant content appears to be displayed on a backside of the image.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application and to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention including equivalent structures components methods and means.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible. Further each system component and or method step presented should be considered a means for or step for performing the function described for said system component and or method step. As such any claim language directed to a means for or step for performing a recited function refers to the system component and or method step in the specification that performs the recited function as well as equivalents thereof.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

