---

title: Adaptive application of accessory device settings
abstract: A system for adaptive application of device settings is disclosed. In the system, a first device may receive information identifying settings that are applied to one or more second devices. The settings may correspond to interactions, by a user, with the one or more second devices over a period of time. The one or more second devices be may non-mobile devices associated with one or more facilities. The first device may determine information identifying one or more conditions, associated with environmental conditions or conditions associated with the user's mood or physical state, under which the settings are applied to the one or more second devices; store information that correlates the settings of the one or more second devices with the one or more conditions; determine that at least one of the one or more conditions is met; and apply the settings to the one or more second devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280366&OS=09280366&RS=09280366
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09280366
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131021
---
Accessory devices such as network enabled consumer electronics appliances etc. can be controlled by user devices within a network to power on off the accessory devices and to select device settings that cause the accessory devices to perform various functions. Manually applying device settings to multiple accessory devices can be time consuming particularly when the settings are to be individually applied to each accessory device in accordance with a user s habits and schedule.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods as described herein may identify device settings e.g. power on off settings functional settings etc. of one or more accessory devices and may correlate the settings with particular surrounding environmental conditions associated with an environment in which the one or more accessory devices are implemented. In some implementations the device settings may relate to the activity of the one or more accessory devices e.g. a user s interaction with the one or more accessory devices . In some implementations a control device may apply the settings to the one or more accessory devices when the particular environmental conditions hereinafter referred to as conditions are met. For example a control device may identify settings of an accessory device such as a light controller a power controller a home appliance a consumer electronics device or the like and may identify conditions under which the settings are applied.

In some implementations the conditions may relate to a user s schedule a time of day weather information or the like. In some implementations the conditions may also relate to biometrics information for a user that corresponds to the user s mood and or physical state. In some implementations the control device may apply particular settings to an accessory device based on the conditions e.g. based on a time of day the user s mood etc. . For example for an accessory device that includes a light controller the control device may apply a setting that controls a brightness level of a light connected to the light controller based on a time of day the user s mood and or some other condition.

For an accessory device that includes a home appliance such as a beverage machine the control device may apply a setting that directs the beverage machine to create a particular beverage based on a user s schedule the user s mood and or some other condition. For an accessory device that includes a consumer electronics device such as a television the control device may apply a setting that directs the television to display a particular channel based on the user s schedule and or some other condition.

In some implementations the control device may adapt to the user s habits by identifying changes to the devices settings of an accessory device e.g. when a user manually changes the settings and may modify a correlation between the device settings and the conditions under which the device settings are applied. As a result settings of accessory devices may be automatically applied e.g. based on the user s past habits behaviors to power on off the accessory devices and or cause the accessory devices to perform particular functions in a particular order based on a user s schedule a user s mood a time of day weather information geographic location and or some other condition.

In some implementations the control device may correlate the settings of the one or more accessory devices to particular conditions under which the one or more accessory devices are set to the settings. For example the controller device may correlate the settings to information identifying a particular day of the week a particular time of day weather information or the like. Additionally or alternatively the controller device may correlate the settings to mood related data received from one or more sensory devices e.g. biometrics data and or some other information that relates to a user s mood .

Based on correlating the settings with the conditions the control device may generate a program that may execute when the conditions are later met. For example referring to the control device may identify that the conditions have been met and may execute the program to apply the device settings to the accessory devices. In some implementations e.g. when a program exists for a particular set of conditions the control device may update the program with updates to the device settings.

As an example assume that the control device receives device settings for a light controller accessory device e.g. a brightness level setting of 100 brightness a beverage maker accessory device e.g. a setting to prepare a particular beverage and a television accessory device e.g. a setting of a particular channel . Further assume that the control device receives these settings under certain conditions or correlates these settings with certain conditions such as a particular time of day e.g. 7 AM and when one or more sensory devices provide mood related data that indicate that a user of the accessory devices is in a Tired mood. Given these assumptions the control device may generate a program that correlates the device settings with the particular conditions or update a program that exists for the conditions . At a later time the control device may identify that the particular conditions have been met such as when the control device receives mood related data that indicates that the user is in a Tired mood and when the time is 7 AM. Based on identifying that the particular conditions have been met the control device may execute the program to apply the settings to the accessory devices.

In some implementations the control device may generate a program as described above. Additionally or alternatively a user may provide a program to the control device e.g. a program that directs the control device to apply device settings to particular accessory devices based on particular conditions such as conditions relating to the user s schedule and or mood . In some implementations the control device may update a program either a generated program or a user provided program to adapt to a user s habits by monitoring the device settings of accessory devices and the conditions under which the device settings are applied. In some implementations a program may identify a sequence in which to apply the device settings. As a result settings of accessory devices may be automatically applied to power on off the accessory devices and or cause the accessory devices to perform particular functions in a particular order based on a user s schedule a user s mood a time of day weather information geographic location and or some other condition.

User device may include a device capable of communicating via a network such as network . For example user device may correspond to a mobile communication device e.g. a smart phone or a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer device e.g. a laptop or a tablet computer a desktop computing device a gaming device a set top box and or another type of device.

In some implementations user device may provide a user generated program to control device e.g. a program that directs control device to apply particular settings to accessory device when particular conditions are met . For example user device may include an application that may be used to generate a program and provide the program to control device . In some implementations user device may access control device to generate a program via an application programming interface API on control device . In some implementations user device may provide an instruction to control device to execute a particular program. Additional details regarding programs that a user may generate via user device are described in greater detail below with respect to . In some implementations user device may function as sensory device to receive mood related information e.g. biometrics information etc. .

Sensory device may include a biometrics monitoring device a movement tracker a sleep tracker or some other type of device that may gather data associated with a user s mood. For example sensory device may include a heart rate monitor a camera device a wrist band a watch or the like. In some implementations sensory device may gather mood related data e.g. a user s physiological measurements such as heart rate information blood pressure information user temperature movement information calorie burning information speech pattern information tone of voice voice stress analysis data and or some other data that identifies the mood and or physical state of the user.

In some implementations sensory device may analyze the mood related data to identify the user s mood and or physical state and provide information identifying the user s mood and or physical state to user device and or control device . For example sensory device may store mood profiles that identify a user s mood based on the mood related data. As an example sensory device may store a mood profile with a description of Tired when information identifying a heart rate blood pressure user temperature etc. are within particular ranges. In some implementations the particular ranges associated with a mood profile may be user defined or predefined.

In some implementations sensory device may gather conditions information relating to weather time date geographic location lighting intensity room temperature noise sound level or the like and may provide the conditions information to control device .

Accessory device may include a device capable of communicating with a network such as network . For example accessory device may include a light controller a power controller a thermostat a home appliance e.g. a beverage machine a refrigerator a vacuum cleaner etc. a consumer electronics device e.g. a television a music player a scent diffuser etc. or the like. In some implementations a user of accessory device may apply a setting to accessory device e.g. remotely via user device and or manually via physical and or virtual buttons associated with accessory device . Additionally or alternatively control device may apply a setting to accessory device based on executing a program. In some implementations a setting may correspond to powering on off accessory device and or directing accessory device to perform a task. In some implementations accessory device may be a non mobile device associated with a particular facility or a particular group of facilities.

Control device may include a computing device such as a server device or a collection of server devices. In some implementations control device may apply device settings to accessory device to power on off accessory device and or to cause accessory device to perform a task. In some implementations control device may apply the device settings based on a program that identifies conditions under which to apply the device settings. For example the program may identify that a particular accessory device is to be powered on in accordance with a user s schedule and or when the user is in a particular mood e.g. based on mood related data received from user device and or sensory device . As described in greater detail below with respect to control device may identify a particular program to use to apply the device settings when conditions for multiple programs have been met. In some implementations control device may monitor device settings of accessory device and may generate a program that correlates the device settings of accessory device with particular conditions. Additionally or alternatively control device may update an existing program that identifies device settings for a given set of conditions e.g. when device settings are modified by a user of accessory device . In some implementations one or more accessory devices may connect to a single control device in a particular facility such as a home an office or the like.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network e.g. a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network a long term evolution LTE network a global system for mobile GSM network a code division multiple access CDMA network an evolution data optimized EVDO network or the like a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a Zigbee network a Bluetooth network a near field communications NFC network a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

In some implementations network may include a first network such as a sensory network via which sensory devices and control device may communicate. For example sensory devices may provide physiological measurements to control device via the sensory network. In some implementations network may include a second network via which accessory devices and control device may communicate e.g. such that control device may apply settings to accessory devices based on particular conditions . In some implementations control device may communicate with sensory devices using a first command language and may communicate with accessory devices using a second command language. Additionally or alternatively control device may communicate with sensory devices and accessory devices using a common command language. In some implementations control device may implement a shell command language and or a command language interpreter when communicating with sensory devices and accessory devices .

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is not limited to what is shown. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

As shown in device may include a bus a processor a main memory a read only memory ROM a storage device an input device an output device and a communication interface .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or another type of processor that interprets and executes instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information or instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that stores static information or instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic storage medium such as a hard disk drive or a removable memory such as a flash memory.

Input device may include a component that permits an operator to input information to device such as a control button a keyboard a keypad or another type of input device. Output device may include a component that outputs information to the operator such as a light emitting diode LED a display or another type of output device. Communication interface may include any transceiver like component that enables device to communicate with other devices or networks. In some implementations communication interface may include a wireless interface a wired interface or a combination of a wireless interface and a wired interface.

Device may perform certain operations as described in detail below. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as main memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

The software instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory may direct processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

In some implementations device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than are shown in .

As shown in data structure may include program identifier ID field conditions field and or device settings field .

Program ID field may store an identifier of a particular program stored by data structure . For example program ID field may store a string of characters of any format and length to uniquely identify the particular program. In some implementations control device may assign a program ID when receiving a program from user device and or when generating a program.

Conditions field may store information identifying conditions under which device settings of accessory devices are applied. For example conditions field may store conditions corresponding to a user s schedule e.g. a day of the week a day in the year a time of day etc. . Additionally or alternatively conditions field may store conditions relating to a user s mood physical state weather information geographic location information etc. Additionally or alternatively conditions field may store conditions relating to the presence of a particular user device e.g. based on a device identifier of user device a network address of user device or the like .

In some implementations particular conditions may include condition scores such that a corresponding program may execute when only some of the conditions are met. For example a particular program may execute when a condition score satisfies a threshold. In conditions field the weightings are shown in parenthesis and may add to a condition score when the condition is met. For example for program ID 1 a condition identifying a day of the week may include a condition score of 50 a condition identifying a time may include a condition score of 50 and a condition identifying a user s mood may include a condition score of 100. Assuming that a condition score of 100 satisfies a threshold at which program ID 1 may be executed control device may execute the program when the condition identifying the day of the week is met and when the condition identifying the time is met e.g. since a condition score of 100 would apply . Alternatively control device may execute the program when the condition identifying the user s mood is met even if the other two conditions are not met e.g. since a condition score of 100 would apply when only the condition identifying the user s mood is met .

Device settings field may store information identifying device settings of one or more accessory devices that are to be applied when a corresponding program is executed. In some implementations device settings field may store information identifying updated device settings e.g. device settings manually updated by a user corresponding to a set of conditions e.g. such that when the corresponding program is executed the updated device settings are applied to accessory devices . In some implementations device settings field may store device settings to direct control device to power on off accessory device and or cause accessory device to perform a particular task. In some implementations device settings field may store device settings in a particular sequence corresponding to a sequence in which control device is to apply the device settings to accessory devices e.g. to power on and or power off accessory devices in a particular sequence .

In some implementations data structure may store a program for each set of conditions. As a result different programs may execute as conditions change thereby causing different settings to be applied to accessory devices as conditions change. Further when device settings are updated e.g. manually updated by a user of accessory devices corresponding to the user s habits behaviors those updates may be stored by device settings field in association with a corresponding set of conditions. That is data structure may store and update device settings that correspond to changes in the user s habits behaviors.

While particular fields are shown in a particular format in data structure in practice data structure may include additional fields fewer fields different fields or differently arranged fields than are shown in . Also illustrates examples of information stored by data structure . In practice other examples of information stored by data structure are possible.

As shown in process may include monitoring device settings applied to one or more accessory devices block . For example control device may monitor device settings of accessory device by receiving the device settings at regular intervals e.g. every minute every five minutes every hour etc. . In some implementations control device may receive the device settings when the device settings on accessory device are updated.

In some implementations the device settings may be applied to accessory device in accordance with a program executed by control device e.g. a program received by control device from a user or a program generated by control device . Additionally or alternatively device settings applied to accessory device may be manually applied by the user of accessory device . In some implementations control device may monitor the activity of accessory devices and may monitor a sequence in which settings are applied to accessory devices e.g. a sequence in which accessory devices are powered on off instructed to perform particular tasks etc. . For example control device may monitor the activity of accessory devices e.g. based on instructions received from a user of accessory devices and as described in greater detail below may generate a program that stores the device settings corresponding to the activity of accessory devices such that device settings may be automatically applied to accessory devices in the future when particular conditions are met. In some implementations control device may monitor the activity of accessory device by receiving an indication from accessory device when a setting is applied or changed to accessory device .

Process may also include determining conditions under which the device settings are applied block . For example control device may determine one or more conditions under which the device settings are applied to accessory device . In some implementations control device may identify a time of day a day of the week weather information geographic location information mood related information e.g. based on information received from sensory device and or some other condition under which the device settings are applied to accessory device .

Process may further include generating or modifying a program to correlate the conditions with device settings block . For example control device may store a program ID e.g. in program ID field and a set of conditions e.g. in conditions field corresponding to program ID and the conditions identified in process block . Further control device may store the device settings in device settings field corresponding to the set of conditions. In some implementations control device may identify that a program ID exists for a particular set of conditions e.g. corresponding to a program previously generated by control device or a program generated by a user via user device and or via a user interface of control device . In some implementations e.g. when a program ID exists for a particular set of conditions control device may update the device settings for that program such that updating device settings may be applied when the particular set of conditions is met e.g. when a condition score satisfies a particular threshold .

In some implementations control device may determine the conditions during which the device settings are applied to accessory device . For example control device may determine the conditions have changed even if the device settings remain unchanged. In some implementations control device may generate or update a program for a set of conditions that reflect the device settings under the set of conditions even when the device settings remain unchanged from one set of conditions to another.

In some implementations control device may track a number of times that the device settings have been applied under a particular set of conditions. In some implementations control device may generate or update a program associated with a particular set of conditions when the number of times that the device settings have been applied under a particular set of conditions satisfies a particular threshold. For example control device may generate or update a program based on identifying a pattern of conditions under which device settings are applied. In some implementations the pattern may be identified when the number of times that the device settings have been applied under a particular set of conditions satisfies the particular threshold.

In some implementations the particular threshold may be selected by a user and may correspond to a sensitivity setting selected by the user. For example for a relatively high sensitivity setting the particular threshold may be lower than for a relatively lower sensitivity setting. That is a relatively higher sensitivity may cause control device to more quickly identify a pattern of conditions under which device settings are applied than a relatively lower sensitivity. The relatively lower sensitivity may prevent control device from erroneously identifying a pattern for example when a device setting is applied as an isolated incident rather than as part of a pattern.

In some implementations control device may provide an alert to user device including a suggestion to generate or update a program. In some implementations control device may generate or update the program based on receiving an instruction from user device in response to receiving the suggestion to generate or update the program.

Referring to process may also include monitoring conditions and identifying that a condition has been met block . For example control device may monitor particular conditions such as conditions relating to a time of day a day of the week etc. via a clock calendar and or timekeeping device associated with control device . In some implementations control device may periodically receive information associated with conditions from sensory device e.g. information relating to a user s mood information relating to the weather information relating to a room temperature or the like . In some implementations control device may identify that a condition has been met when a condition that has been identified by control device matches a condition stored by conditions field in data structure .

Process may further include determining a condition score block . For example control device may determine a condition score based on identifying that a condition has been met and based on condition score information stored by conditions field . As an example assume that control device determines that a condition relating to a user s mood has been met and that the condition relating to the user s mood includes a condition score of 100. Further assume that control device determines that a condition relating to a day of the week has been met and that the condition relating to the day of the week includes a condition score of 50. Given these assumptions control device may determine a condition score of 150 e.g. by summing the condition scores associated with the identified conditions .

In some implementations control device may assign condition scores to particular conditions. For example control device may assign a relatively greater condition score to a condition that is more related to the function of accessory device than a condition that is less related to the function of accessory device . As an example assume that accessory device corresponds to a television. Given this assumption control device may assign a greater condition score to a condition relating to a time of day than to a condition relating to weather information e.g. since information identifying a time of day may be more relevant than weather information for a device setting for a television such as a channel number corresponding to a broadcast of a particular television program . As another example assume that accessory device corresponds to a thermostat device. Given this assumption control device may assign a greater condition score to a condition relating to weather information than to a condition relating to a time of day e.g. since the weather information may be more relevant than time information for a device setting corresponding to a temperature at which the thermostat is set . In some implementations a user may assign the condition scores when generating or modifying a program stored by control device .

Process may also include determining that a condition score satisfies a threshold and executing a program block . For example control device may determine that the condition score e.g. as determined above in block has satisfied a particular threshold. In some implementations the particular threshold may be user selectable and may include a default threshold that causes a program to execute when some or all conditions associated with a program are met. Based on determining that the condition score has been satisfied control device may execute a corresponding program associated with the condition score and apply device settings to accessory devices e.g. in a particular sequence as defined by the program to power on off accessory devices and or cause accessory devices to perform a particular task.

As an example assume that a particular program is associated with a condition identifying a day of the week with a condition score of 50 a time with a condition score of 50 and a user s mood with the condition score of 100 . Further assume that the particular program may execute when the condition score satisfies a threshold of 100. Given these assumptions the particular program may execute when the conditions identifying the day of the week and the time are met. Additionally or alternatively the particular program may execute when the condition identifying the user s mood is met.

In some implementations e.g. when particular conditions for multiple programs have been met and the condition score has been satisfied for each set of conditions control device may execute a particular program whose condition score is greatest. In some implementations e.g. when particular conditions for multiple programs have been met and the condition is equal for the multiple programs control device may execute a particular program based on priority information associated with each program. For example assume program 1 is associated with a condition identifying a day of the week with a condition score of 50 a time with a condition score of 50 and a user s mood with the condition score of 100 . Further assume that program 3 is associated with a condition identifying a geographic location with a condition score of 50 a time with a condition score of 50 and a user s mood with the condition score of 100 . Given these assumptions a condition score of 100 may be determined for programs 1 and 3 when the condition identifying the user s mood is met but when the other conditions of programs 1 and 3 are not met.

In some implementations control device may determine whether to execute program 1 or 3 based on a priority of program 1 and 3. In some implementations the priority of the programs may be user selectable. Additionally or alternatively the priority of the programs may be proportional to a number of times that a program is executed. For example control device may log the number of times that a program is executed. In some implementations e.g. when the number of times that multiple programs have been executed are equal and when condition scores of multiple programs are equal control device may select a particular program to execute based on a round robin technique a manual override based on user input and or some other technique.

Based on determining a particular program to execute control device may execute the particular program to apply device settings to accessory devices in accordance with device settings identified in device settings field . For example control device may power on or power off accessory device . Additionally or alternatively control device may apply a setting to direct accessory device to perform a particular task. As an example control device may apply a setting to a television accessory device to cause accessory device to power on and set to a particular television channel. As another example control device may apply a setting to a light controller accessory device to direct accessory device to output a particular voltage to a lighting device connected to accessory device e.g. to adjust the illumination output by the lighting device .

As described above control device may execute different programs as conditions change thereby causing different settings to be applied to accessory device as conditions change. As described above a condition may correspond to the presence of a particular user device . For example when a first user device e.g. user device is present but a second user device e.g. user device is not present control device may execute a first program. When user device and user device are present control device may execute a second program e.g. to apply settings to different accessory devices in different sequences .

In some implementations process may repeat in order to monitor device settings that may be updated e.g. manually by a user of accessory device identify a set of conditions associated with the updated device settings and modify a corresponding program associated with the set of conditions such that when conditions are met e.g. when a condition score satisfies a threshold the program may execute to apply the updated device settings to accessory device .

While show process as including a particular quantity and arrangement of blocks in some implementations process may include fewer blocks additional blocks or a different arrangement of blocks. Additionally or alternatively some of the blocks may be performed in parallel.

At a later time control device may determine that the conditions have been met when receiving mood related data corresponding to a particular mood e.g. a Tired mood when sensory device gathers physiological measurements corresponding to the Tired mood at a particular time of day e.g. 7 AM and may execute the program to power on off accessory devices and to cause accessory devices to perform tasks. For example referring to control device may receive mood related data corresponding to a Tired mood at 7 AM may identify that the conditions have been met and execute the program to apply device settings to accessory device and accessory device . As a result device settings may be applied without user interaction and may be applied based on the user s habits.

In some implementations control device may provide an indication to user device that control device has identified that particular conditions have been met and that a particular program is to be executed. In some implementations control device may receive a cancellation and or a snooze instruction from user device to cancel or delay the execution of the program. In some implementations the amount of time to delay the execution of the program may be selected by a user of user device . In some implementations the amount of time to delay the execution of the program may correspond to a predetermined default amount of time.

While a particular example is shown in the above description is merely an example implementation. In practice other examples are possible from what is described above in .

As shown in user device may receive program instructions corresponding to device 1 settings device 2 settings and device 3 settings corresponding to device settings for accessory device accessory device and accessory device respectively . For example user device may receive device 1 settings to direct accessory device to play a particular song e.g. the song file Song 1.mp3 device 2 settings to direct accessory device to diffuse a particular scent e.g. a lavender scent and device 3 settings to direct accessory device to set a brightness level of a light e.g. to a brightness level of 35 .

In some implementations user device may provide the program instructions to control device . In some implementations control device may generate a program based on the program instructions. Alternatively user device may generate the program based on receiving the program instructions via interface and provide the program to control device .

Referring to control device may identify that a condition has been met e.g. a condition that a Mellow mood has been identified based on mood related information provided by sensory device . Based on identifying that the condition has been met control device may execute the program to apply device settings to accessory device accessory device and accessory device in accordance with the program. For example control device may apply settings to accessory device to cause accessory device to play a particular audio file e.g. the audio file Song 1.mp3 . Further control device may apply settings to accessory device to cause accessory device to diffuse a particular scent e.g. a lavender scent . Also control device may apply setting to accessory device to cause accessory device to set a brightness level of a light to 35 .

In some implementations control device may receive an indication of a selection from user device identifying a user s mood. For example referring to user device may receive the selection from a user via interface . Based on receiving the selection user device may provide an indication of the selection to control device and control device may execute a corresponding program associated with the selection of the user s mood to apply settings to accessory device accessory device and accessory device .

While a particular example is shown in the above description is merely an example implementation. In practice other examples are possible from what is described above in . Also while a particular format of interface is shown in practice interface may have a different format and appearance than what is shown.

As described above control device may generate a program by correlating device settings with conditions under which the device settings are applied. Additionally or alternatively a user may provide a program to control device e.g. a program that directs control device to apply device settings to particular accessory devices based on particular conditions such as conditions relating to the user s schedule and or mood . In some implementations control device may update a program either a generated program or a user provided program to adapt to the user s habits by monitoring the device settings of accessory devices and the conditions under which the device settings are applied. In some implementations a program may identify a sequence in which to apply the device settings. As a result settings of accessory devices may be automatically applied e.g. based on the user s habits behaviors to power on off accessory devices and or cause accessory devices to perform particular functions in a particular order based on a user s schedule a user s mood a time of day weather information geographic location and or some other condition.

The foregoing description provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

It will be apparent that different examples of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these examples is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of these examples were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these examples based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Some implementations are described herein in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal to or similar terms . Similarly the term less than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein satisfying a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

