---

title: Low profile pass-through electrical connector
abstract: A low profile pass-through electrical connector is designed for aerospace applications. The connector allows voltage and current to pass-thru a conductive wing surface, while maintaining a low profile height for aerodynamic performance considerations. Examples of applications of the electrical connector include power for thin film heaters and communication antennae applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09623975&OS=09623975&RS=09623975
owner: Battelle Memorial Institute
number: 09623975
owner_city: Columbus
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 654 787 filed 1 Jun. 2012.

This work was conducted with funding from the U.S. government through Contract No. CON00008573. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed toward a low profile pass thru connector for passing electrical voltage and current through a conductive wing surface which are typically made of carbon fiber or aluminum. Preferably the connector maintains a low profile height with respect to the wing surface to maintain the wing s aerodynamic performance. The pass thru connector may provide power to thin film heaters used for anti icing de icing purposes and can alternatively or in combination be utilized for other purposes such as communication antennas. Thin film heaters may require high electrical currents so the pas s thru connector must have sufficient cross sectional area where it travels through the wing to prevent overheating. It also should make a transition to a thin conductive preferably copper strip conductor to interface with the thin film heaters. This thin copper strip does not overheat with high current use because the airflow during flight keeps it cool due to forced convection. In one variant the total thickness of the thin film heater cannot be more than 0.020 inches 0.51 mm and to this end the thin copper leads for this application are preferably 0.005 inches 0.013 mm thick or less.

The invention includes any of the designs described herein including generalizations of these designs portions of each design as well as combinations of the designs. The invention also includes methods of making conductive assemblies and or flying vehicles comprising the conductive assemblies. The invention also includes methods of using a heating element or antenna comprising using any of the conductive assemblies and or flying vehicles described herein for example a method of deicing or heating an aerodynamic surface or powering an antenna on an aerodynamic surface comprising passing an electric current through any of the pass through conductors described herein. Any of the inventive aspects can be described as forming a finished conductive assembly without solder. A nonlimiting list of the inventive concepts includes any of the following aspects.

In one aspect the invention provides a conductive assembly comprising a heating element or antenna an electrically conductive pin that is electrically connected to the heating element or antenna a mating socket that is adapted to mate with the conductive pin and an electrically insulating sleeve disposed around the circumference of the pin and or mating socket.

In another aspect the invention provides a flying vehicle that is a missile or manned or unmanned aircraft comprising the conductive assembly disposed on an aerodynamic surface preferably a wing wherein the heating element or antenna is disposed on the exterior surface of the flying vehicle and the electrically conducting pin and mating socket form an electrical pathway from the exterior of the flying vehicle to the interior for example from the surface of a wing to the interior of the wing . In some preferred embodiments there is no solder on the conductive pin. In some preferred embodiments the electrically insulating sleeve comprises a threaded polymer and the pin is a screw type pin that is adapted to screw through the threaded polymer.

The invention also includes a method of making a conductive assembly or flying vehicle comprising any of the assembly steps described herein. In some embodiments a conductive assembly comprising a heating element in some embodiments a plurality of heating elements or an antenna and having one or usually more conductive pins is pressed through aperture s formed by an electrically insulating sleeve s that is are disposed in and pass through the surface of an airfoil. The electrically conductive pin s mate with a socket s to form an electrical pathway through the airfoil surface. In some preferred embodiments no solder is required to install the conductive assembly on the airfoil surface.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of conducting electricity from the inside to the outside of an airfoil or vice versa that comprises passing electricity through the electrically conductive pin. In a preferred embodiment this method is conducted while a fluid passes over the surface of the airfoil at a velocity of at least 200 mph 320 km . This condition would typically be encountered during flight but would not be experienced by a structure on the ground.

In a further aspect the invention provides a flying vehicle comprising an airfoil such as a wing comprising a conductive wire passing from the inside of the airfoil to the outside of the airfoil and an insulating sleeve disposed around the conductive wire. Preferably the insulating sleeve is fit by compression into the airfoil. In some embodiments the conductive wire is a screw that has a flat head that conforms to the surface of the airfoil.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a conductive assembly comprising a heating element or antenna an aerodynamic surface a connector base forming a pathway through the aerodynamic surface a floating center disposed inside the connector base and an electrical conductor disposed within the floating center. The invention also includes a flying vehicle comprising this conductive assembly the corresponding methods of making these assemblies and the corresponding methods of using the heating elements or antennas. The floating element can be loose and able to move in the x and y directions while remaining immobile in the z direction in this case the assembly is typically an intermediate structure. The intermediate structure can be treated with an adhesive that secures the copper conductor or other strip conductor and or the heating element and or the antenna the adhesive also secures the floating center so that is no longer floating. The connector base is typically cylindrical. The connector base and floating center preferably have the same length. The connector base may have a rim that retains a cylindrical floating center or an eyelet in the airfoil surface can retain the floating center. In preferred embodiments a snap ring also called a retainer ring prevents the floating center from moving up through the airfoil surface and preferably immobilizes the floating center in the z direction that is the direction normal to the airfoil surface . Preferably a retaining ring is disposed around and at the top part that is the part nearest the airfoil surface of the floating center. In one embodiment the retainer ring is a cut circle that snaps into place this ring may have a c shape that acts as a spring by pressing against the rim of the connector base. Typically the floating center contains a socket. The socket can complete the electrical connection from the interior of an airfoil to a heater element or antenna on the surface of the airfoil. As with other aspects of the invention the heater element or antenna can be plugged into or removed from the socket in the floating center. In some embodiments the top portion of the connector base and the floating center form a groove that can be filled by an adhesive that anchors the floating center and may also secure the heating element or antenna to the airfoil surface. Desirably the connector base and floating center are electrically insulating.

While various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the invention.

In one embodiment the invention provides a low profile pass through electrical connector that connects or is adapted for connecting an electrical conductor on a outer surface of a plane wing to conductors in the interior of the plane wing comprising a conductive pin e.g. a brass pin of 12 14 gauge a non conducting vented fastener for receiving the pin a captive nut configured to thread around the fastener in the interior of the wing a non conductive sheath a micro jack connector press fit into the non conductive sheath and a wire.

Referring to a low profile pass through electrical connector comprises a conductive brass pin of 12 14 gauge a 20 size inch diameter 20 threads per inch 0.64 cm diameter 8 threads per cm non conducting vented fastener that has been modified for fitment of a brass conductor a captive nut a micro jack connector press fit into the non conductive sheath a non conductive sheath and a wire . illustrates a cutaway view of the assembled pass through connector with a solder joint where the thin copper lead connects to the head of the 12 gauge pin. is a bottom view of the pass through connector assembly.

In another embodiment referring to a low profile pass through electrical connector comprises a number 100 degree 25 64 inch 0.99 cm nominal diameter 100 degree is the angle formed by the tapered screw head flat head stainless steel screw a wide flange nylon insulating sleeve a wide nylon insulating washer a copper ring terminal with solder flange and a captive nut . is an exploded view and is a cutaway view of an assembled connector. The thin copper lead is sandwiched between the head of the screw and the nylon sleeve in this concept to complete the electrical connection. This obviates the need for a solder joint.

In a further variant referring to a low profile pass through electrical connector comprises a copper lead that has been cut with an eyelet shaped feature on one end. This eyelet shape is then swaged into a countersink shape. The countersunk eyelet provides for a large contact area for the thin copper lead.

The floating pass through connector is illustrated in . The illustrated floating pass through connector is comprised of main parts the connector base the floating center the socket not visible in and the snap ring . The interior of floating center can be identical to the interior of electrically insulating sleeve . Similarly the socket is inserted into the floating center and potted in place with an electrical wire. The connector base is epoxied in place into the wing surface. The floating center is then installed into the connector base and is held in place by the snap ring also called a retainer ring . The floating center can move laterally in the X and Y plane but the snap ring prevents it from moving axially. Once a thin film heater is applied onto the wing surface the epoxy used to apply the heater fills the groove where the snap ring resides. This solidifies the connector adds structural strength and prevents movement in the future. The floating aspect only needs to be utilized during the assembly phase however the part may still be termed as a floating center after fixing in place by an adhesive.

This floating design allows for the connector to tolerate an additional 0.020 inch 0.5 mm of tolerance from the pin connection without causing the thin film plastic heater to stretch or wrinkle. This is especially important when installing several connector into a wing surface as maintaining the hole position tolerance is very challenging. The connector design maintains its flush surface mount properties to ensure aerodynamic performance. A vibration test has been performed on this connector design without any failures.

