---

title: Wi-fi transceiver having dual-band virtual concurrent connection mode and method of operation thereof
abstract: A transceiver, a method of providing multiple-band virtual concurrent wireless communication and a wireless device incorporating the transceiver or the method. In one embodiment, the transceiver includes: (1) first transmit and receive intermediate frequency (IF) strips, (2) second transmit and receive IF strips, (3) first and second local oscillators (LOs) and (4) switches operable to multiplex clock signals from the first and second local oscillators to cause the transceiver to operate in a selectable one of: (4a) a unified, multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) mode in which the first and second transmit and receive IF strips are driven to transmit and receive in a first band and (4b) a concurrent multiple-band connection mode in which the first transmit and receive IF strips are driven in the first band and the second transmit and receive IF strips are concurrently driven in a second band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09112588&OS=09112588&RS=09112588
owner: NVIDIA CORPORATION
number: 09112588
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131219
---
This application is directed in general to Wi Fi devices and more specifically to a Wi Fi transceiver for a wireless device that has a dual band virtual concurrent connection mode and a method of operating the same.

Mobile devices such as cellphones smartphones tablets and laptops are ubiquitous. While they were originally introduced to provide rudimentary functionality such as telephony and text messaging they have now evolved to the point that they have begun to replicate the functions of physically much larger computers such as desktop personal computers. Accordingly mobile devices are beginning to be used for gaming desktop publishing and graphics and video editing. These are particularly computation and graphics intensive applications and test the general and special purpose processing and storage limits of mobile devices.

Supporting the ever intensifying use of mobile devices is an evermore capable wireless network infrastructure making its presence known in both cellular and wireless Internet access Wi Fi forms. Consequently mobile devices are able to make higher bandwidth more reliable wireless connections in more places than ever before possible.

As a result of all of the above more capable mobile devices smartphones gaming consoles and tablets in particular have begun to spawn short range wireless networks of their own allowing other devices to be tethered to the more capable mobile devices which then serve as proxies for access to the wireless network infrastructure. Bluetooth and Wi Fi Direct are two notable technologies that make possible such short range peer to peer wireless networks sometimes called personal area networks PANs or piconets. Not only can two smartphones pads and tablets be tethered to one another via Bluetooth or Wi Fi Direct but a host of less capable devices can be tethered as well such as cell phones earphones headsets speakers displays gaming controllers and remotes sensors and actuators to name just a few.

One aspect provides a transceiver. In one embodiment the transceiver includes 1 first transmit and receive intermediate frequency IF strips 2 second transmit and receive IF strips 3 first and second local oscillators LOs and 4 switches operable to multiplex clock signals from the first and second local oscillators to cause the transceiver to operate in a selectable one of 4a a unified multiple input multiple output MIMO mode in which the first and second transmit and receive IF strips are driven to transmit and receive in a first band and 4b a concurrent multiple band connection mode in which the first transmit and receive IF strips are driven in the first band and the second transmit and receive IF strips are concurrently driven in a second band.

Another aspect provides a method of providing multiple band virtual concurrent wireless communication. In one embodiment the method includes 1 causing a transceiver to operate in a unified multiple input multiple output mode in which an LO drives first and second transmit and receive IF strips therein to transmit and receive using first and second antennas in a first band and 2 causing the transceiver to operate in a concurrent multiple band connection mode in which the LO drives the first transmit and receive IF strips to transmit and receive using the first antenna in the first band and another LO drives the second transmit and receive IF strips to transmit and receive concurrently in a second band.

Yet another aspect provides a wireless device. In one embodiment the wireless device includes 1 a radio frequency RF front end having 1a first and second antennas 1b first transmit and receive IF strips coupled to the first antenna 1c second transmit and receive IF strips coupled to the second antenna 1d a first local oscillator LO operable to cause modulation in one of a first band and a second band and 1e a second LO operable to cause modulation in a second band 2 a digital baseband coupled to the RF front end and operable in a unified MIMO mode and a multiple band connection mode and having 2a first and second time domain channel circuitry for first and second time domain channels 2b MIMO processing circuitry coupled to the first and second time domain channel circuitry 2c first and second bit processing circuitry coupled to the MIMO processing circuitry and 2d first and second media access controllers MACs coupled to the first and second bit processing circuitry the first MAC operable as MIMO processing circuitry in the multiple band connection mode and 3 other wireless device circuitry coupled to the digital baseband.

As stated above modern mobile devices are able not only to communicate with other networks such as the Internet but are also capable of communicating with short range wireless networks. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard 802 11 provides one framework for wirelessly networking devices. In an effort further to standardize wireless networking the Wi Fi Alliance has further defined not only a client server wireless connection by which a wireless access point WAP provides access to a network for a wireless device called a station in this context but also a peer to peer wireless connection called Wi Fi Direct or Wi Fi P2P by which one wireless device can act as a group owner for another. The client server connection allows the wireless device to connect to a network such as the Internet while the peer to peer wireless connection allows the wireless device to have other devices tethered to it such as a television for providing an enhanced video display.

As those skilled in the pertinent art are familiar two RF bands have been made available to support wireless networking. One is the 2.4 GHz band and the other is the 5 GHz band. Other bands may be defined and made available in the future. This disclosure will sometimes refer to dual connections or dual band. However those skilled in the pertinent art will understand that the embodiments described herein apply to more than two concurrent connections and more than two bands as such may be made available in the future.

Irrespective of whether the connections are client server or peer to peer and irrespective of the band s involved it has become not only possible but advantageous for a wireless device to use multiple connections concurrently. For example the device may be able to download content from the Internet via multiple WAPs. Alternatively the device may be coupled to the Internet for cloud gaming and at the same time communicate the resulting video output to a television for display.

Concurrent virtual connections are achieved through time sharing namely toggling quickly between or among the multiple connections. In other words communication takes place over one connection also called a link which is then paused for temporary communication over the other connection and thereafter resumed. The toggling between or among connections has to take place at a relatively high rate e.g. less than 20 ms to avoid the toggling to be visible in video content. For this reason the conventional approach is to avoid the toggling by providing a separate transceiver for each connection. Unfortunately each additional transceiver requires additional space and power and increases the cost of the device.

It is realized herein that providing a separate transceiver for each connection is unnecessary. It is realized herein that Wi Fi employs a MIMO transceiver capable of operating in multiple bands. It is further realized that the transceiver may be rearchitected to accommodate a concurrent multiple band connection mode in which the transceiver toggles between or among plural bands at a rate suitable for virtual concurrent operation. More specifically it is realized herein that LOs may be provided and multiplexed to cause the transceiver selectively to operate in such a mode. For example a 2 2 Wi Fi transceiver may be operated in a unified 2 2 MIMO mode in either the 2.4 GHz band or the 5 GHz band or as separate 1 1 transceivers one operating in the 2.4 GHz band and the other operating in the 5 GHz band.

Accordingly introduced herein are various embodiments of a Wi Fi transceiver operable to provide virtual concurrent wireless communication and a method of providing dual band virtual concurrent wireless communication. In certain embodiments an additional LO is provided and multiplexed to allow the transceiver to operate in the dual band virtual concurrent mode. In related embodiments the Wi Fi transceiver and method support concurrent connections in the existing 2.4 and 5 GHz bands.

Before describing various embodiments of the transceiver and method introduced herein a wireless networking infrastructure in which such a transceiver or method may operate will be described. Accordingly is a diagram of one embodiment of a wireless networking infrastructure in which a device wirelessly communicates with multiple devices or networks.

A wireless device is capable of communicating over multiple concurrent wireless connections. In the embodiment of the wireless device engages in a first connection with a WAP of the Internet with which many computers e.g. servers are connected. shows one such computer . In the first connection the wireless device operates as a station. The wireless device concurrently engages in a second connection with a remote device . In the second connection the remote device is tethered to the wireless device via a P2P connection.

In one example the wireless device is interacting with a web site not shown of the Internet and concurrently displaying video output relating to its interaction with the web site on a television set provided or enabled with wireless networking capability which constitutes the remote device in this example. The first connection may be over the 2.4 GHz band and the second connection may be over the 5 GHz band or vice versa. Alternatively both the first and second connections may be over the 2.4 GHz band or the 5 GHz band.

In the illustrated embodiment the wireless device is a smartphone. As those skilled in the pertinent art understand a smartphone is generally characterized as having a prominent display screen and providing an application programming interface API to an operating system OS allowing third party software applications typically called apps to execute in the smartphone. Examples of current smartphones use the Android iOS Windows Phone BlackBerry or Bath Symbian Palm OS Windows Mobile OS. In an alternative embodiment the wireless device is a tablet such as an Apple iPad an Asus Transformer an EVGA Tegra a Lenovo Yoga an LG G Pad a Panasonic Toughpad a Samsung Galaxy Note or a Microsoft Surface In another alternative embodiment the wireless device is an e reader such as an Amazon Kindle or a Barnes Noble Nook . In yet another embodiment the wireless device is a laptop computer of which there are many available types. In still another embodiment the wireless device is a desktop computer or server.

In an alternative embodiment the remote device is a computer monitor provided with wireless networking capability. In another alternative embodiment the remote device is a video projector enabled with wireless networking capability. In yet another alternative embodiment the remote device is any device that can wirelessly communicate with the wireless device .

As stated above the conventional approach to accommodate higher toggling rates between or among multiple connections is to provide a separate transceiver for each connection. To maintain data rates each additional transceiver requires an additional IF strip an analog phase locked loop PLL to serve as an LO an analog to digital converter ADC a digital to analog converter DAC and a MAC. It is realized herein that a MIMO transceiver may be augmented with an additional PLL and MAC to give it the capability to provide dual band virtual concurrent wireless communication without requiring data rates to be reduced.

The RF front end circuitry includes antennas . The antenna is coupled to circuitry that includes a duplexer and unreferenced bandpass filters and switches that switch the antenna for transmission and reception. The antenna is coupled to circuitry that includes a duplexer and unreferenced bandpass filters and switches that switch the antenna for transmission and reception.

During reception two IF strips I Q are provided for demodulation and analog to digital conversion of in phase and quadrature components of signals received by the antenna and therefore form a first receive pair of IF strips. Two IF strips I Q are provided for demodulation and analog to digital conversion of in phase and quadrature components of signals received by the antenna and therefore form a second receive pair of IF strips. Data reflecting these in phase and quadrature components are provided to the digital baseband circuitry for further processing.

During transmission two IF strips I Q are provided for digital to analog conversion of data provided by the digital baseband circuitry and modulation into in phase and quadrature components for transmission by the antenna and therefore form a first transmit pair of IF strips. Two IF strips I Q are provided for digital to analog conversion of data provided by the digital baseband circuitry and modulation into in phase and quadrature components for transmission by the antenna and therefore form a second transmit pair of IF strips.

First and second LOs provide clock signals that selectively drive the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q. In the embodiment of the first LO is operable to provide a clock signal that causes the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q to operate in the 5 GHz band and the second LO is operable to provide a clock signal that causes the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q to operate in the 2.4 GHz band. Switches are operable to multiplex the clock signals from the first and second LOs to the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q as appropriate to the mode in which the transceiver is operating. In a unified MIMO mode the switches are operable to couple only the first LO to the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q. The first LO can then drive the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q to operate in one of multiple bands e.g. 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz . In a concurrent multiple band connection mode the switches are operable to couple the first LO to a transmit pair and a receive pair of the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q e.g. the second receive pair of IF strips I Q and the first transmit pair of IF strips I Q . In the concurrent multiple band connection mode the switches are further operable to couple the second LO to another transmit pair and a receive pair of the IF strips I Q I Q I Q I Q e.g. the first receive pair of IF strips I Q and the second transmit pair of IF strips I Q .

In the unified MIMO mode other wireless device circuitry provides data to the MACs along datapaths 0 and 1. The data is processed in the respective bit processing circuitry and then passed to the MIMO processing circuitry where the data is transformed into the MIMO time domain channels 0 and 1 in the time domain channel circuitry . The data in the time domain channels 0 and 1 is then passed to the first and second transmit pairs of IF strips I Q I Q for conversion to analog form and RF modulation in one band e.g. 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz and eventual transmission via the antennas . Signals received by the antennas are RF demodulated and converted to digital form in the first and second receive pairs of IF strips I Q I Q and passed to the time domain channel circuitry where it is transformed out of the time domain channels 0 and 1 and passed to the MIMO processing circuitry . The MIMO processing circuitry then places the data in the datapaths 0 and 1 at which time the respective bit processing circuitry and MACs further process and make the data available to the other wireless device circuitry .

In the concurrent multiple band connection mode other wireless device circuitry provides data to the MACs along datapaths 0 and 1. The MAC functions as MIMO processing circuitry in the concurrent multiple band connection mode. The data is processed in the respective bit processing circuitry and then passed to the MIMO processing circuitry where the data remains divided into the datapaths 0 and 1. The data in the datapath 0 is then passed to the first transmit pair of IF strips I Q for conversion to analog form and RF modulation in one band e.g. 2.4 GHz and eventual transmission via the antenna . The data in the datapath 1 is then passed to the second transmit pair of IF strips I Q for conversion to analog form and RF modulation in another band e.g. 5 GHz and eventual transmission via the antenna . Signals received by the antenna are RF demodulated from one band e.g. 5 GHz and converted to digital form in the first receive pair of IF strips I Q. Signals received by the antenna are RF demodulated from another band e.g. 2.4 GHz and converted to digital form in the second receive pair of IF strips I Q. The digital data from the first and second receive pair of IF strips I Q I Q are then passed to the time domain channel circuitry where it is transformed out of the time domain channels 0 and 1 and passed to the MIMO processing circuitry . The MIMO processing circuitry then places the data in the datapaths 0 and 1 at which time the respective bit processing circuitry and MACs further process and make the data available to the other wireless device circuitry .

Those skilled in the art to which this application relates will appreciate that other and further additions deletions substitutions and modifications may be made to the described embodiments.

