---

title: Human surrogate neck model
abstract: A human surrogate neck model includes a spinal neck region containing cervical vertebrae. A biosimulant intervertebral material is inserted between the cervical vertebrae. The spinal neck region is surrounded by a first silicone material mixed with a polymeric cross-linking inhibitor. One or more elastic tension bands are anchored to a top interface and a bottom interface of the neck model. A second silicone material mixed with a polymeric cross-linking inhibitor is applied to surround the spinal neck region and the first silicone material and to embed the tension bands. One or more of the elastic tension bands and/or a concentration ratio of the first silicone material or second silicone material to the polymeric cross-linking inhibitor can be adjusted for variable test conditions to closely simulate or mimic the static and dynamic characteristics of a human neck in various scenarios.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09011158&OS=09011158&RS=09011158
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 09011158
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130207
---
This invention was made with government support under contract number N00024 03 D 6606 awarded by the Naval Sea Systems Command. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Example embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a surrogate neck model and more particularly relate to a surrogate neck model having material and mechanical properties substantially the same as that of a human neck.

A human surrogate neck model HSNM can be used for various testing such as the effects of an impact upon the neck. Results of such testing can be used in the issuance of preventive measures or in the development of protective products.

Most HSNMs that are currently available are stiff and are difficult to demonstrate kinematic effects. Many parts of an HSNM are made of hard materials such as metal and hard rubber discs which do not mimic human tissue. In addition the currently available HSNMs are not adjustable in any way and therefore can only demonstrate one condition.

A human surrogate neck model according to example embodiments of the present invention is more biofidelic than a conventional neck model. It contains a polymeric material representing the vertebrae and intervertebral discs between the vertebrae. It has silicone gel materials representing the muscle and flesh in the neck. A human surrogate neck model according to example embodiments of the present invention can be tuned or made comparable to a fully validated parametric probabilistic computational neck model. The compliance of the neck can be easily changed by varying a tension in elastic bands embedded in a surrounding silicone material for example.

In an example embodiment a human surrogate neck model contains a plurality of cervical vertebrae that makes up a spinal neck region. Biosimulant intervertebral discs are situated between the plurality of cervical vertebrae. A first silicone material surrounds the spinal neck region. A second silicone material is situated exterior to the first silicone material. A plurality of elastic tension bands are embedded in the second silicone material. The tension bands are anchored at a top interface and a bottom interface of the human surrogate neck model.

In another example embodiment a method of making and adjusting a human surrogate neck model is described. A spinal neck region containing cervical vertebrae is provided. A biosimulant intervertebral material is inserted in between each of the cervical vertebrae. The spinal neck region is surrounded by a first silicone material mixed with a polymeric cross linking inhibitor. One or more elastic tension bands are anchored to a top interface and a bottom interface of the human surrogate neck model. A second silicone material mixed with a polymeric cross linking inhibitor is applied to surround the spinal neck region and the first silicone material. The elastic tension bands are embedded in the second silicone material and polymeric cross linking inhibitor mixture.

The cervical vertebrae illustrated in have nerves that exit the vertebrae. The associated nerves are responsible for upper body movement and function. Nerves from all of C1 through C6 cervical vertebrae are responsible for neck flexion. Nerves from all of C1 through C7 cervical vertebrae along with nerves from T1 thoracic vertebra are responsible for neck extension. Nerves from C3 C4 and C5 cervical vertebrae control the diaphragm although most of the nerve control comes from the C4 nerve. Nerves from C5 and C6 cervical vertebrae control shoulder movement and raise the arms. Flexion of the elbows is also controlled by nerves from C5 and C6 while nerves from C6 externally rotate the arms. Nerves from C6 and C7 cervical vertebrae control extension of the elbows and wrists and also control pronation of the wrists. Nerves from C7 cervical vertebra and T1 thoracic vertebra control flexion of the wrists.

A more biofidelic i.e. more life like human surrogate neck model has been developed. The human surrogate neck model mimics the response of the human neck at high rate loading with minimal muscle activation such as that expected in a sudden blast or ballistic impact. However embodiments of the invention also contemplate other objectives or uses for the human surrogate neck model such as vehicle crash testing and sports impact testing.

The cervical vertebrae can be formed with commercial off the shelf COTS solid plastic pieces. The intervertebral discs are formed with urethane in a preferred embodiment such as polyurea elastomer. The polyurea elastomer is a combination of a resin and a hardener which closely mimics actual human intervertebral disc material.

The first silicone material and the second silicone material both contain a mixture of a silicone rubber with varying amounts of a polymeric cross linking inhibitor. In an embodiment the silicone rubber comprises a P 10 room temperature vulcanizing RTV silicone rubber. A deadener is added to both of the first silicone material and the second silicone material . The deadener inhibits cross linking of the polymers and results in a more compliant material when mixed with the silicone rubber. In embodiments of the invention the first silicone material and the second silicone material will usually have different concentrations of the two materials which results in different densities. The first silicone material is designed to mimic human muscle tissue and the second silicone material is designed to mimic human skin tissue under various sets of conditions. As an example the first silicone material and the second silicone material will take on a first set of properties when the mimicked conditions entail a muscle relaxed state whereas the first silicone material and the second silicone material will take on a second set of properties when the mimicked conditions entail a muscle tensed state.

The elastic tension cables comprise multiple cables that run the lateral length of the human surrogate neck model and are anchored at a top region and at a bottom region of the neck model. In an embodiment the elastic tension cables comprise three bands anchored at different angles at two opposite sides of the neck model. In an embodiment bungee cords can be used for the elastic tension cables . However other materials that can be adjusted and other combinations of tension cables can be used to mimic various conditions of the human neck.

Testing was conducted in which the combined head and neck surrogate model had a tri axial accelerometer package and an angular rate sensor mounted at the head center of gravity. Various tests were conducted such as benchtop tests to characterize the response of the neck to simple quasi static loading and to dynamic testing. Test results were compared to a fully validated parametric probabilistic computational neck model. Adjustments were made to the surrogate neck model in order to closely match the computational mathematical model.

Static forces were applied in the posterior direction at a point near the occipital condyle joint. The occipital condyle joint is a protrusion on the occipital bone of the skull that forms a joint with the first cervical vertebra enabling the head to move relative to the neck. Forces of 5 10 and 15 pounds force lbf were applied but other forces are also contemplated by embodiments of the invention. The response of the neck was recorded with video for analysis of the translation and rotation of the head under load. The tension of the elastic tension cables were adjusted to mimic a relaxed muscle state and a tensed muscle state. A graph of the test results from an applied static force is shown in . Results in the relaxed muscle state show a steep increase in displacement of the head versus an applied force. However results from the tensed muscle state show a nearly linear but smaller increase in displacement of the head versus an applied force. Simulation results for the comparative mathematical model are also shown.

Dynamic shock tube tests were conducted on the human surrogate neck model and attached head to assess the behavior of the neck model in the high rate loading domain. A shock tube is an instrument used to replicate and direct blast waves at a sensor or a model to simulate actual explosions and their effects. A shock tube is a rectangular or circular tube usually constructed of metal in which a gas at low pressure and a gas at high pressure are separated by a diaphragm. The diaphragm can be made from plastic for low burst pressures aluminum or copper for moderate burst pressures and mild steel or stainless steel for high burst pressures. However other materials that meet the desired criteria for a particular burst pressure can be used. The diaphragm suddenly bursts open under predetermined conditions to produce a wave propagating through the low pressure section. The shock that eventually forms increases the temperature and pressure of the test gas and induces a flow in the direction of the shock wave. The bursting diaphragm produces a series of pressure waves that are recorded.

Forces of 75 100 and 125 pounds per square inch gage psig were applied to test the human surrogate neck model but other forces are also contemplated by embodiments of the invention. The head was unconstrained and the base of the neck was rigidly fixed. Load cells measured forces and moments in and about all three axes as well as rotations at the upper and lower portions of the neck. Kinetic and kinematic data was recorded from the electronic sensors.

The results illustrated in A C and A C demonstrate that the inventive aspects of the human surrogate neck model according to embodiments described herein closely resemble results of the simulated mathematical neck model. The experimental results closely mimic expected life like conditions in all three dimensions for displacement and rotation for both a relaxed muscle state and a tensed muscle state as a result of applied static and dynamic forces.

The surrogate neck model according to embodiments of the invention described herein can be varied by a adjusting one or more of the tension cables b adjusting the concentration ratio of silicone to polymeric cross linking inhibitor for the first silicone material and or c adjusting the concentration ratio of silicone to polymeric cross linking inhibitor for the second silicone material. Adjusting the tension of one or more of the tension cables allows the surrogate neck model to mimic a muscular state from a completely relaxed state to a completely tensed state in different areas of the neck. Adjusting the concentration ratios of the first or second silicone material to the polymeric cross linking inhibitor allows the human surrogate neck model to mimic multiple states of muscle and or skin tone to match a real life situation. The first silicone material can be adjusted to mimic human muscle tissue and the second silicone material can be adjusted to mimic human skin. Therefore one or more of the above adjustments can be made to the human surrogate neck model in order to mimic a condition or state of the human body particularly the neck when the human body experiences a real life condition such as a blast or ballistic impact a vehicle crash a fall or a contact sports collision.

While the description and drawings herein contain many specifics these specifics should not be construed as limitations of the many example embodiments of the present invention but merely as exemplifications thereof. Those of ordinary skill in the art will envision many other embodiments within the scope and spirit of the invention as defined by the claims appended hereto.

