---

title: Gesture-based controls via bone conduction
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for utilizing bone conduction to detect gestures. According to one aspect, a device can generate a signal and send the signal to a sensor network that is connected to a user. The device can receive a modified signal from the sensor network. The modified signal can include the signal as modified by a body of the user. The device can compare the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal. The device can determine a gesture performed by the user based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594433&OS=09594433&RS=09594433
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09594433
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131105
---
Human interface devices allow humans to interact with computer systems and devices to carry out various tasks. Traditional human interface devices such as the ubiquitous mouse and keyboard are still commonly used but are now being replaced or supplemented with more advanced human interface devices that aim to make human and computer interaction more natural for users. One such human interface device that has experienced significant growth in popularity over the last several years due in large part to the surge of smartphone devices is the multi touch touchscreen. Multi touch touchscreens allow single and multiple touch inputs including gestures that are often more intuitive and thus easier to learn particularly for children and elderly users.

A new trend is emerging in human interface device technologies in which a user and the human interface device are no longer required to physically interact. Voice recognition technology is one area that has greatly improved in recent years and allows a user to provide complex inputs using natural spoken language. Other human interface devices utilize cameras with gesture recognition functionality that allows a user to perform gestures in space without having to physically interact with a human interface device. KINECT available from MICROSOFT CORPORATION is one such device.

Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for utilizing bone conduction to detect gestures. According to one aspect a device can generate a signal and send the signal to a sensor network that is connected to a user. The device can receive a modified signal from the sensor network. The modified signal can include the signal as modified by a body of the user. The device can compare the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal. The device can determine a gesture performed by the user based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal.

In some embodiments the sensor network includes a plurality of vibration sensors. The signal can be propagated through one or more bones of the user by at least one vibration sensor of the plurality of vibration sensors.

In some embodiments the device can generate instructions that are indicative of the gesture performed by the user. The device can send the instructions that are indicative of the gesture performed by the user to an application executing on the device. The application may provide native support for the gesture. Alternatively the application may map the instructions to a native input of the application which may be another gesture based input such as multi touch gestures.

In some embodiments the device can create a user gesture profile based upon a physical attribute of the user. The gesture performed by the user may be determined based at least in part upon the user gesture profile.

In some embodiments the device can perform a gesture learning process. In particular the device can generate a test signal and send the test signal to the sensor network. The device can prompt the user to perform a pre defined gesture. The device can receive a modified test signal from the sensor network while the user performs the pre defined gesture. The modified test signal can include the test signal as modified by the body of the user during performance of the pre defined gesture. The device can compare the modified test signal to the test signal to determine a difference in a feature between the test signal and the modified test signal. The device can associate the difference in the feature between the test signal and the modified test signal with the pre defined gesture and update a user gesture profile accordingly.

In some embodiments the gesture includes a static gesture. In some other embodiments the gesture includes a movement gesture. For the latter the device can generate a plurality of signals and send the plurality signals to the sensor network in succession e.g. one signal every X milliseconds . The device can receive a plurality of modified signals from the sensor network in succession where each of the plurality of modified signals is indicative of a frame of motion of the movement gesture.

It should be appreciated that the above described subject matter may be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer readable storage medium. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended that this Summary be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to gesture based controls via bone conduction. According to one aspect a device can generate a signal and send the signal to a sensor network that is connected to a user. The device can receive a modified signal from the sensor network. The modified signal can include the signal as modified by a body of the user. The device can compare the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal. The device can determine a gesture performed by the user based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal.

While the subject matter described herein may be presented at times in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures computer executable instructions and or other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system including hand held devices mobile devices wireless devices multiprocessor systems distributed computing systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers routers switches other computing devices described herein and the like.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements throughout the several figures example aspects of gesture based controls via bone conduction will be presented.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment in which various embodiments presented herein may be implemented will be described. The operating environment shown in includes a user a plurality of sensors and a user device associated with the user . The plurality of sensors may form a sensor network positioned at various locations on the user s body. A sensor network alternatively may include a single sensor . In the illustrated example the plurality of sensors are shown on the user s arms waist legs and one of the user s hands. It should be understood however that one or more of the plurality of sensors may be positioned on or within any part of the user s body including the head neck and other areas not specifically illustrated in . Accordingly the illustrated example should not be construed as being limiting in any way. In some implementations one or more of the plurality of sensors are implanted within the user s body so as to be in direct contact with one or more bones of the user .

In some embodiments the sensor network is in communication with the user device via one or more wired connections which may be facilitated by any wired communications technology some examples of which include Universal Serial Bus USB Ethernet optical Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE FIREWIRE serial technologies parallel technologies proprietary technologies and combinations thereof. In some other embodiments the sensor network is in communication with the user device via one or more wireless connections which may be facilitated by any wireless communications technology some examples of which include IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 IEEE 1451 wireless USB BLUETOOTH ZIGBEE International Society of Automation ISA 100.11a proprietary technologies and combinations thereof.

One or more of the plurality of sensors can receive one or more signals from the user device transmit the signal s through at least a portion of the user s body and return modified signal s to the user device . The modified signal s include the signal s as modified by the user s body. The user device can analyze the modified signal s to determine a position of the user s body and or portions thereof.

In some embodiments the user device sends the signal s to at least one of the plurality of sensors which receive the signal s and send the signal s through the user s body. As the signal s propagate through the user s body features of the user s body cause the signal s to be modified thereby creating the modified signal s . At least one of the plurality of sensors receives the modified signal s and sends the modified signal s to the user device .

In some embodiments the user device sends the signal s to the user s body which modifies the signal s thereby creating the modified signal s . The modified signal s is are then received by at least one of the plurality of sensors which send the modified signal s to the user device .

In some embodiments the user device sends the signal s to at least one of the plurality of sensors which receive the signal s and send the signal s through the user s body. As the signal s propagate through the user s body features of the user s body cause the signal s to be modified thereby creating the modified signal s . The same sensor s of the plurality of sensors receives the modified signal s and sends the modified signal s to the user device .

The position of the user s body and or portions thereof can be indicative of a static gesture being performed by the user . A static gesture may be isolated or may involve the user s interaction with one or more objects such as the user holding or touching one or more objects. A static gesture may include a symbolic gesture such as a gesture used in static sign language. Other static gestures may be full body gestures or partial body gestures in which the user moves one or more of his or her body parts into a static position for a period of time.

A static gesture can be utilized by the user device as input for one or more applications. In some implementations an application developer may define one or more static gestures for use as input for an application. In some other implementations an application developer may select one or more static gestures from a set of one or more pre defined static gestures. The pre defined static gestures may be implemented for example as part of a software development kit SDK for use in developing software on a specific platform.

The position of the user s body and or portions thereof can be indicative of a movement gesture being performed by the user . For movement gestures the signals can be sent in succession e.g. every X milliseconds to the user s body and the modified signals received from the user s body can each be representative of an instance in time and a position of the user s body at that instance. In other words the modified signals may each be representative of a frame of motion as the user performs a movement gesture.

A movement gesture may be isolated or may involve the user s interaction with one or more objects such as the user moving or pointing to one or more objects. A movement gesture may include a symbolic gesture such as a gesture used in sign language. A movement gesture may include a deictic gesture such as for example pointing or directing one or more individuals to turn their attention to an event or object within an environment. A movement gesture may include an iconic gesture such as for example a gesture used to convey information about the size shape and or orientation of an object of discussion. A movement gesture may include a pantomimic gesture such as for example a gesture used to convey the use of an invisible object.

A movement gesture can be utilized by the user device as input for one or more applications. In some implementations an application developer may define one or more movement gestures for use as input for an application. In some other implementations an application developer may select one or more movement gestures from a set of one or more pre defined movement gestures. The pre defined movement gestures may be implemented for example as part of an SDK for use in developing software on a specific platform.

The plurality of sensors in some embodiments are vibrations sensors that vibrate in accordance with the signal s to send vibrations through one or more bones of the user s body in accordance with a bone conduction technique. The vibration sensors may be piezoelectric transducers such as contact microphones other electro acoustic transducers or a combination thereof.

The signal s each may have amplitude frequency and or phase characteristics that are designed or tuned to the user s body attributes. For example a user s height weight body fat percentage body muscle percentage and or bone characteristics such as bone density and bone mass as well as the placement of the plurality of sensors on or within the user s body can affect the vibrations transmitted by and or received from individual sensors of the plurality of sensors and so the signals sent through the user s body can be generated taking into account the user s body attributes. The user s body attributes may be used at least in part to create a user gesture profile as will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

It should be understood that the use of bone conduction techniques eliminates certain environmental drawbacks of other techniques that utilize electrical signals. Indeed the use of vibration sensors inherently relies on acoustic signals that are unaffected by environmental characteristics such as for example temperature and humidity. Although bone conduction techniques are described herein as the primary techniques by which signals are transmitted throughout the user s body other techniques such as skin conduction may be utilized to enhance or fine tune gesture information derived from one or more signals received by the user device after the signal s have traversed at least a portion of the user s body.

The user device may be a smartphone feature phone personal digital assistant PDA tablet device laptop computer desktop computer server computer video game system handheld video game system media player set top box vehicle computing system smart watch personal tracker or safety device other computing system other computing device a combination thereof or the like. It should be understood that the functionality of the user device can be provided by a single device by two or more similar devices and or by two or more dissimilar devices. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the user device is described as a mobile telephone such as a smartphone. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The illustrated user device includes an operating system a data aggregation module a data analysis module a gesture learning module a user gesture profile and an application . The user device can execute the operating system the data aggregation module the data analysis module the gesture learning module and the application . The operating system is a program for controlling the operation of the user device . The data aggregation module the data analysis module the gesture learning module and the application include computer executable instructions that are configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functions described herein. In some embodiments all or at least a portion of the instructions included in the data aggregation module the data analysis module the gesture learning module and or the application are encoded in the operating system .

The data aggregation module can be executed by one or more processors not illustrated in but illustrated and described below with reference to of the user device to perform various operations described herein for generating one or more signals transmitting the signal s to the user s body where the signal s propagate through the user s body from one sensor to another within the sensor network provided by the plurality of sensors and aggregating data associated with the modified signal s received from one or more of the plurality of sensors . The data aggregation module also provides the aggregated data to the data analysis module .

The data analysis module can be executed by one or more processors not illustrated in but illustrated and described below with reference to to determine a position of the user s body and or portions thereof. The position of the user s body and or portions thereof may be indicative of a static gesture being performed by the user . The position of the user s body and or portions thereof as the user moves can be analyzed and determined to be indicative of a frame of a movement gesture being performed by the user . The gesture can be utilized by the user device as input for one or more applications as will be described below in more detail.

The gesture learning module can be executed by one or more processors not illustrated in but illustrated and described below with reference to to learn one or more unique mannerisms of the user when the user performs one or more gestures. The gesture learning module can populate the user gesture profile with the results of a learning process during which the unique mannerisms of the user are identified and associated with one or more gestures performed by the user . The gesture learning module is described herein below in greater detail with reference to .

The user gesture profile can include one or more attributes of the user including but not limited to weight height age length of legs length of arms waist size other dimensions of the user s body or portions thereof and the like. The user gesture profile can also include anomalies with the user s performance of one or more gestures. By way of example and not limitation the user may have a physical or other impairment that causes the user to perform an action that is indicative of a gesture that another user may perform to convey a different gesture but because of the user s physical or other impairment this action is not indicative of the other gesture for the user and so may be flagged as such within the user gesture profile . Such anomalies can be determined by the gesture learning module .

Although the data aggregation module the data analysis module and the gesture learning module are illustrated as separate software modules that are executable by one or more processors of the user device the data aggregation module the data analysis module and the gesture learning module in some embodiments are combined into one or more modules or may be encoded within the operating system the application and or one or more other applications not shown . As such the illustrated embodiment of the data aggregation module the data analysis module and the gesture learning module as distinct components is but one example configuration and should not be construed as limiting in any way.

The application is configured to execute on top of the operating system to provide various functions. The application may be any type of application some examples of which include but are not limited to presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like.

The application can support one or more gestures as input. In some embodiments the application receives instructions indicative of a gesture performed by the user from the data analysis module . The application in these embodiments processes the instructions to determine an input being provided by the gesture. In response the application can perform one or more functions. The application can provide native support for bone conduction gestures as input and or can map gestures to inputs for which the application has native support. For example touch gestures typically provided via a touchscreen can be mapped to bone conduction gestures so that bone conduction gestures can be used in lieu of or in addition to touch gestures to provide input to the application .

The user device can operate in communication with and or as part of a communications network network . The network is illustrated and described in greater detail herein below with reference to .

The user device can communicate with a gesture server over the network . In some embodiments the gesture server creates at least in part the user gesture profile and sends the user gesture profile to the user device . The gesture server may also update the user gesture profile from time to time based upon new information received from the gesture learning module . The user gesture profile may be stored in a database operating on or in communication with the gesture server .

The gesture server in some embodiments additionally or alternatively is used to manage user data associated with the user stored in the database as part of a user account for a gesture service. It is contemplated that one or more application programming interfaces APIs can be created to take advantage of functionality provided by the gesture service provided by the gesture server . In some embodiments an API is called by the application the data analysis module and or the gesture learning module to access the user gesture profile from the gesture server . In these embodiments the user gesture profile does not need to be stored locally on the user device although the user gesture profile may be at least partially cached at the user device for faster access by the application the data analysis module and or the gesture learning module .

In some embodiments one or more gesture learning models are created through the use of signal analysis and machine learning techniques which may be performed by the user device during execution of the gesture learning module and or by the gesture server . For example an acoustic signal can be sent through an individual and captured via a sensor. The individual may be the user or a test individual used to generate a baseline model which can then be modified for the user based upon information obtained from the user gesture profile . The raw signal obtained by the sensor can be analyzed and one or more features related to a gesture can be extracted based upon analysis techniques including for example wavelet analysis cepstral analysis and sliding window analysis for relative power and root mean square amplitude. The extracted features can then be used to train the gesture learning model s using machine learning based classification. In some implementations one or more machine learning algorithms are utilized to generate acceptable signal classifiers for features extracted from test signals. It is contemplated that the machine learning algorithms can be deployed on the user device so that the gesture learning model s can be modified over time based upon the user gesture profile and other information related to the user s body before during and after the user performs one or more gestures.

Turning now to aspects of a method for creating a gesture profile such as the user gesture profile will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in their respective entireties. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including the user device the gesture server single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof refers to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as the user device and or the gesture server to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the methods disclosed herein are described as being performed at least in part by the user device via execution of one or more software modules and or software applications such as the data aggregation module the data analysis module the gesture learning module and or the application . It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes such as the gesture server can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method will be described with reference to and further reference to . The method begins at operation where the user device prompts the user to provide information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user . The physical attributes can include but are not limited to the user s weight height age length of legs length of arms waist size other dimensions of the user s body or portions thereof combinations thereof or the like. The user device may prompt the user to provide information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user via a visual prompt on a display of the user device via an audio prompt through a speaker of the user device or a combination thereof. The user device may prompt the user to provide information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user as part of an initial setup process conducted by the application and or the data analysis module . In embodiments in which the data analysis module is encoded within the operating system the initial setup process may be carried out through a settings menu of the operating system .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device receives the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user . The user device may receive the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user via manual entry via a touchscreen a keypad a microphone or other input component of the user device . Alternatively the user device may receive the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user from a user account that is associated with the user and that is stored within the database of the gesture server .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device executes the gesture learning module to perform a gesture learning process. The gesture learning process is described below with reference to .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device creates the user gesture profile based upon the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user and the output from the gesture learning process. The user gesture profile can include anomalies with the user s performance of one or more gestures. By way of example and not limitation the user may have a physical or other impairment that causes the user to perform a motion that is indicative of a gesture that another user may perform to convey a different gesture but because of the user s physical or other impairment this motion is not indicative of the other gesture for the user and so may be flagged as such within the user gesture profile . Such anomalies can be determined by the gesture learning module during the gesture learning process performed at operation .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device causes the user gesture profile to be stored. The user device may cause the user gesture profile to be stored locally in a storage component of the user device and or may cause the gesture profile to be stored in the database of the gesture server .

Turning now to a method for updating a user gesture profile such as the user gesture profile will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and .

The method begins and proceeds to operation where the user device receives a request to update the user gesture profile . The request may be received from the user from an application such as the application executing on the user device or from an external source. The external source may be a remote application such as an application executing on the gesture server . The external source may be a device that is in communication with the user device via the network and or via a local network such as a BLUETOOTH ZIGBEE WI FI or other local or personal area network. The device may be for example a smart scale that is configured to weigh the user and send the user s weight to the user device . The smart scale may format the weight as a request to update the user gesture profile for the user or the smart scale may merely send the weight to the user device based upon a configuration setting and the user device may interpret this as a request to update the user gesture profile .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device prompts the user to provide information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user . Operation may be performed in response to the user requesting to update the user gesture profile or an application requesting that the user update the user gesture profile . For embodiments in which the request is received from an external source the operation is not performed although it is contemplated that the user may modify information provided by the external source.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device receives the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user to be updated. The user device may receive the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user to be updated via manual entry via a touchscreen a keypad a microphone or other input component of the user device . Alternatively the user device may receive the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user to be updated from a user account associated with the user and stored within the database of the gesture server . An external device such as a smart scale may additionally or alternatively provide the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user to be updated.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device updates the user gesture profile based upon the information associated with one or more physical attributes of the user to be updated. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device causes the user gesture profile as updated to be stored. The user device may cause the user gesture profile to be stored locally in a storage component the user device and or may cause the user gesture profile to be stored in the database of the gesture server .

Turning now to a method for learning gestures will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and .

The method begins and proceeds to operation where the user device receives a request to perform a gesture learning process. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device generates one or more signals such as the signal s for use during the gesture learning process. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device sends the signal s to one or more of the plurality of sensors .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device prompts the user to perform a pre defined gesture. The gesture may be a static gesture or a movement gesture. The user device may prompt the user to perform the pre defined gesture via a visual prompt on a display of the user device via an audio prompt through a speaker of the user device or a combination thereof. The user device may prompt the user to perform the pre defined gesture as part of an initial setup process conducted by the application and or the data analysis module . In embodiments in which the data analysis module is encoded within the operating system the initial setup process may be carried out through a settings menu of the operating system .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device receives a modified version of each of the signal s such as the modified signal s from one or more of the plurality of sensors . The modified signal s include the signal s as modified by the user s body.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device compares the modified signal s to the signal s to determine one or more differences in one or more features of the modified signal s and the signal s . In some embodiments the modified signal s received from one or more of the plurality of sensors can be analyzed and one or more features can be extracted based upon analysis techniques including for example wavelet analysis cepstral analysis and sliding window analysis for relative power and root mean square amplitude. The extracted features can then be used to train a gesture learning model using machine learning based classification. In some implementations one or more machine learning algorithms are utilized to generate acceptable signal classifiers for features extracted from the modified signal s . It is contemplated that the machine learning algorithms can be deployed on the user device so that a gesture learning model can be modified over time based upon the user gesture profile and other information related to the user s body before during and after the user performs a gesture.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device associates the difference s in one or more feature s between the signal s and the modified signal s with the pre defined gesture that the user was prompted to perform at operation . From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device updates the user gesture profile so that when the user performs the pre defined gesture the user device can determine that the user performed the pre defined gesture based upon features extracted from the modified signal s .

Turning now to a method for determining a gesture performed by a user such as the user will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and .

The method begins and proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module generates a signal such as the signal . The signal may be generated based upon the user gesture profile and considering information associated with one or more the physical attributes of the user as obtained during the initial setup process described above with reference to the method illustrated in or the update process described above with reference to the method illustrated in . In general the signal is generated with amplitude frequency and or phase characteristics conducive for transfer through the user s body based upon information stored in the user gesture profile . If a user gesture profile is not available for the user a default signal may be generated. In some implementations even without a user gesture profile the user device may prompt the user to input height weight and or other physical attributes to further tune the signal to the user . At operation the data aggregation module may generate multiple signals each of which is intended to capture a frame of motion as the user performs a movement gesture.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module sends the signal to the sensor network formed by the plurality of sensors placed on and or within the user s body. For embodiments in which multiple signals are used to capture a movement gesture the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module may send the signals in rapid succession e.g. every X milliseconds to the sensor network formed by the plurality of sensors placed on and or within the user s body. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module receives the modified signal from the sensor network. The modified signal includes the signal as modified by the user s body. For embodiments in which multiple signals are used to capture a movement gesture the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module may receive the modified signals from the sensor network.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data analysis module compares the modified signal to the signal to determine one or more differences in one or more features between the signal and the modified signal as modified by the user s body. For embodiments in which multiple signals are used to capture a movement gesture the user device and more particularly the data aggregation module the differences may be determined for each signal to determine a frame of motion of the movement gesture.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data analysis module compares the difference s in the feature s of the signal s and the modified signal s to the user gesture profile to determine the pre defined gesture performed by the user .

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the user device and more particularly the data analysis module generates instructions indicative of the gesture performed by the user . The instructions can be useable by one or more applications such as the application as input.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the data analysis module sends the instructions to an application such as the application . The application can then perform one or more functions in response to the instructions.

Turning now to a method for processing instructions associated with a gesture to determine an input will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method will be described with reference to and .

The method begins and proceeds to operation where the application executing on the user device receives the instructions generated in operation of the method described above. From operation the method proceeds to operation where the application processes the instructions to determine an input being represented by the instructions. In some embodiments the application provides native support for bone conduction gestures and as such the instructions can identify the bone conduction gesture performed by the user . In some other embodiments the application does not provide native support for bone conduction gestures. In these embodiments the instructions can include information regarding a direction of movement a speed an acceleration and or other parameters that can be utilized by the application as input. The instructions may additionally or alternatively mimic gestures for which the application provides native support. For example the application may support touch gestures that are typically received via a touchscreen or touchpad of the user device . These touch gestures can be mapped to one or more bone conduction gestures so the application processes the bone conduction gestures in the same manner as the corresponding touch gestures.

From operation the method proceeds to operation where the application performs one or more functions in response to the input determined at operation . The functions can include any functions capable of being performed by the application in response to an input.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments the user device described above with reference to can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the user device may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video advertisements gesture profile settings gesture profile setup prompts virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system e.g. the operating system one or more applications e.g. the data aggregation module the data analysis module and the context aware application other computer executable instructions stored in a memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The UI application can interface with the operating system to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content viewing account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device . The data can include for example the gesture models the user gesture profile and or other applications or program modules. According to various embodiments the data can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1374 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ45 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks such as the network described above herein. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA CDMAONE CDMA2000 Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using Generic Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Date Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed Highs Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared IRDA NFC other RF technologies combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from GPS devices A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array a system on a chip or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS and or LEOPARD families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules to perform the various operations described herein such as those described with reference to one or more of the methods . The program modules and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods or a portion thereof described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store the user database and or other data if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to the network a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as provided via BLUETOOTH technology a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such as a WiMAX network or metropolitan cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN a wired LAN such as provided via Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer the user device and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards such as LTE or the like as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example the user device a PC a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer the user device or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and therethrough to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

According to various implementations of the concepts and technologies described herein the user device can use any combination of the devices disclosed herein including but not limited to the mobile device the Internet capable device and or the communication device to access web pages or other resources to access the gesture server to access the database to transmit the signal s to one or more of the plurality of sensors to receive the modified signal s from one or more of the plurality of sensors and or for other interactions between the user device the gesture server and or the plurality of sensors . As such it should be understood that the user device can interact with the gesture server via any number and or combination of devices and networks. It should be understood that these examples are illustrative and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that concepts and technologies directed to gesture based controls via bone conduction have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

