---

title: Method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface (UI) of an on-screen interactive program (IPG)
abstract: A method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface (UI) of an on-screen interactive program guide (IPG). The method comprises determining whether a user group of a current primary user matches with at least one of targeted user groups, selectively adding advertisement asset images corresponding to the matched user group into an advertisement bouquet, calculating a number of impressions of each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on a given day, calculating an advertisement sequence for each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on the given day, optimizing performance for delivery and display of the advertisement asset images and displaying the advertisement asset images during at least one of organizing, navigating, gifting, downloading and buffering at least one of AV and multimedia contents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106942&OS=09106942&RS=09106942
owner: 
number: 09106942
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130722
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to an on screen interactive program guide IPG and more particularly to managing display of personalized advertisements PADs in a user interface UI of an onscreen IPG.

In general television TV advertising outnumbers press and online advertising based on revenue earnings. As a result nowadays TV advertisers are bound to advertise the same advertisements on multiple channels i.e. inter channel advertising and also repeat the same advertisements multiple times on each of the channels i.e. intra channel advertising to attract and gather maximum attention and eyeballs of the viewers. However TV advertisers both strive and tend to spend money in an efficient manner to reach targeted audience belonging to a specific group of viewers so as to maximize the recall rate. In so doing TV advertisers are to some extent capable of converting economically targeted advertisements into increased sales revenues and brand value.

One problem is that if conventional advertisement models are not customized and enhanced TV advertisers may fail to attract and engage viewers to see advertisements relevant to the viewers. Another problem is that if money spent by TV advertisers fails to follow the eyeballs of viewers customers the TV advertisers may waste a lot of money and may eventually lose out in business.

Still another problem transpires if multiple system operators MSOs local cable operators LCOs who in general merely aggregate and distribute AV contents do not own any channel or contents. In the event that MSOs LCOs do not own any channel or contents MSOs LCOs fail to get direct revenue from advertisements. Typically a license agreement between MSOs LCOs and channel content owners is required if advertisements are displayed on full screen videos. In the event that the MSOs LCOs do not own any channel or contents then entering into a license agreement to do advertisements with third or 3 party content channel owners is not an easy task for the MSOs LCOs since the content channel owners prefer or ensure not to lose control over advertisement revenues which drive the business of the content channel owners.

Normally it takes several years for MSOs LCOs after launching a product such as set top box STB or digital TV to reach break even because of the high infrastructure and CapEx costs of the head end equipments satellite transponders modulators and the rest. Furthermore only the subscription fee from subscribers viewers is not sufficient to meet the costs or to make profits.

The overall number of viewers users recording TV programs or interested in using various types of user interfaces UIs for navigating through the contents or recorded and stored programs using digital video recorders DVRs has been doubling year on year. The two fold increase is because the viewers users want to view record and store programs anytime as per the viewers users convenience schedule and availability therein.

Advertisers face additional risk as most users of DVRs fast forward and skip the advertisements because the advertisements are interruptive in nature and are disliked by viewers as it disturbs user s continuous viewing experience. Skipping advertisements by DVR viewers users increase the wasteful spends of advertisers and further reduces the return on investment ROI .

Therefore there is a need in the art for a method and apparatus for managing dynamic insertion and display of personalized advertisements in a user interface UI of an on screen interactive program guide IPG with enhanced targeting personalization and interactivity.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to a method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface UI of an on screen interactive program guide IPG comprising determining whether a user group of a current primary user matches with at least one of targeted user groups selectively adding advertisement asset images corresponding to the matched user group into an advertisement bouquet calculating a number of impressions of each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on a given day calculating an advertisement sequence for each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on the given day optimizing performance for delivery and display of the advertisement asset images and displaying the advertisement asset images during at least one of organizing navigating gifting downloading and buffering at least one of AV and multimedia contents.

While the method and system is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface UI of an on screen interactive program guide IPG is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface UI of an on screen interactive program guide IPG defined by the appended claims.

Various embodiments of method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements in a user interface UI of an on screen interactive program guide IPG are described. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description that follow are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing data processing and analytics or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and is generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing data processing and analytics leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

The system comprises a client device a server subsystem and a network subsystem . In some embodiments the client subsystem may be coupled to the server subsystem through the network subsystem . Specifically the client subsystem is at least one of wiredly and wirelessly communicably coupled to the server subsystem through the network subsystem .

The network subsystem comprises at least one of a content delivery network CDN Internet television TV network broadcast network connected network and cloud based network.

The client subsystem comprises one or more client devices. In some embodiments the one or more client devices are at least one of Smart TV Connected TV Set top box STB Digital TV Internet TV Interactive TV hybrid TV PCTV and Hybrid Broadcast Broadband TV HbbTV or H4TV . In some embodiments at least one of the client devices is a connected client device . In some embodiments the connected client device is a cloud client. In operation the cloud client relies on cloud computing for all or a majority of applications. In some scenarios cloud applications do not require specific software on the cloud client and instead use a web browser to interact with the cloud application. The connected client device is coupled to the network subsystem . Specifically the connected client device is capable of communicating through the Internet using at least one of Internet Protocol IP based connection and Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS based cable return path. The connected client device is capable of receiving at least one of audiovisual AV and multimedia contents through the Internet decoding and rendering the received AV and multimedia contents that are viewable by end users. In some embodiments the at least one of AV and multimedia contents is at least one of Linear TV contents and contents recorded using at least one of digital video recorders DVRs STBs Direct to videos DTVs or D2Vs Personal computers PCs tablets mobiles and the rest. The connected client device is capable of providing Linear TV viewing recording playback and other facilities.

As depicted in each of the client devices comprises a software stack . The software stack comprises a personalized advertisements plug in PAP component . The PAP component includes a personalized advertisement PAD rendering module a personalized advertisement plug in interface PAPI layer an initialization module a caching module a statistical engine a server communication module for example a HTTP server communication module an extensible markup language XML utility a storage utility a state machine module and a personalized advertisements PADs glue interface layer all of which facilitate fine tuning and display of targeted personalized advertisements to users.

As depicted in the server subsystem includes a PAD server database DB server for example MYSQL DB server advertisement asset server a web server and a billing server .

As used in the current context the term advertisement assets or ad assets refers to at least one of image advertisements of at least one of a Portable Network Graphics PNG and Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG type videos animations multimedia for example a combination of still images animations and videos shown as at least one of advertisement folder icons or ad folder icons advertisement companions or ad companions and gift wrapper advertisements or gift wrapper ads .

As used in the current context the term advertisement folder icons or ad folder icons refers to advertisement images displayed on folder icons for example during at least one of navigation and organizing at least one of AV and multimedia contents based on a user.

The term advertisement companion or ad companion refers to provision of supplementary information about a product advertised for a viewer to make purchase decisions. The ad companion may be in the form of at least one of pictures videos URLs and a combination thereof.

As used herein the term gift wrapper advertisements refer to advertisement images displayed upon selection access and retrieval of a wrapped gift box icon representing a gift box enfolded with a gift wrapper for a virtual gift or good . For example a movie purchased by a user to give gift for another user.

The term Model View Controller MVC refers to an application architecture which separates the components of an application namely a model view and controller. The model represents the stored data used for business logic the view represents user interface and the controller manages user input or in some cases the application flow or implements the business logic.

In some embodiments the server subsystem comprises Model View Controller MVC framework based software . The Model View Controller MVC framework based software is required to implement the system and the methods therefor. The Model View Controller MVC framework based software is installed in the PAD server advertisement asset server web server and billing server to optimize performance. The PAD server advertisement asset server web server and billing server communicate with each other using web services.

The logical three 3 layer architecture includes an application layer a middleware layer and a hardware H W abstraction layer and device driver . The middleware layer comprises one or more interfaces . As demarcated by dotted lines in a PAP component for example the PAP component of is spread across the application layer and middleware layer in software stacks for example one or more of the software stack of client devices for example each of the one or more client devices of . The PAP component is a plug in to the middleware layer .

As depicted in the application layer comprises one or more host user interface UI applications of and a PAD rendering module for example the PAD rendering module of .

As depicted in the host UI applications comprise a favorite channel list recorded content organizer AV multimedia buffer download on screen display OSD UI gift message OSD UI and watch TV application all of . Each of the host UI applications comprises an instance of a PAD rendering module for example the PAD rendering module as depicted in .

In operation for each of the host UI applications the PAD rendering module which resides in each of the host UI applications displays personalized advertisements and the corresponding advertisement companion assets. Specifically the PAD rendering module displays personalized advertisements in at least one of the favorite channel list recorded content organizer AV multimedia buffer download OSD UI gift message OSD UI and watch TV application using a PAPI layer for example the PAPI layer of . The PAD rendering module shares a user identifier ID from a currently active at least one of the host UI applications with the PAPI layer . The PAD rendering module requests the PAPI layer for a personalized advertisement image corresponding to the user ID shared. The PAD rendering module displays the personalized advertisement image provided by the PAPI layer wherein the personalized advertisement image corresponds to the user ID shared. The PAD rendering module notifies the PAPI layer about the duration of display of the personalized advertisement image and a feedback of a user bearing the shared user ID. The information comprising the duration of display of the personalized advertisement image and the user feedback is converted into an XML request and sent to a PAD server through a server communication module in a client device. For example the XML request is sent to the PAD server of a server subsystem for example the server subsystem of through the HTTP server communication module of the PAP component in the software stack of the client device of .

The middleware layer includes the initialization module PAPI layer caching module statistical engine server communication module extensible markup language XML utility storage utility state machine module and personalized advertisements PADs glue interface layer all of the foregoing from .

The initialization module transmits the capability information and device identification details of the client device as a WHOAMI XML request during the first time booting up or startup of the client device to the PAD server as part of the subscriber registration. In response the initialization module receives a subscriber identifier ID from the PAD server as part of the subscriber registration. Upon reception of the subscriber ID the initialization module sends one or more additional XML requests for instance XML requests for placement opportunity information service POIS and an advertisement display tracker ADT table for example the advertisement display tracker ADT table F not explicitly shown and described hereat of a MYSQL DB server for example the MYSQL DB server of to the PAD server . The initialization module receives and stores an advertisement sequence uniform resource locators URLs and at least first three 3 advertisement images or asset images derived from the ranking indices of the advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence for each user in the persistent memory of the client device .

The term Placement Opportunity Information Service or POIS refers to a system or process that identifies and provides descriptions of placement opportunities for media such as the space and time availability to dynamically insert advertisements. The POIS may contain requirements and attributes that can include which platforms may be used ownership rights licenses and policies that are used to publish or coordinate the placement of media. Placement opportunities are content and UI specific so they can vary based on the type of broadcast network geographic location or other associated content or UI attributes such as UI application version and client device type

The term WHOAMI requests refer to requests received from one or more client devices for example one or more of the client device when the client devices asynchronously boot up for the first time. The WHOAMI requests are parsed and stored in a WHOAMI table for example the WHOAMI table E not explicitly shown and described hereat of the MYSQL DB server of .

The term advertisement sequence or adseq refers to a sequence in which image assets selected for a specific user belonging to or from a user group is displayed in UI screens. The advertisement sequence is created in one of the tasks of a first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by a routine wakeup tasks performance module for example the routine wakeup tasks performance module of a performance optimization component for example the performance optimization component of and stored in the MYSQL DB server .

The PAPI layer is an abstracted application programming interface API layer present in the middleware layer and used by the PAD rendering module of the application layer for personalized advertisements. The PAPI layer fetches one or more stored advertisement asset images from the persistent memory of the client device and provides the stored advertisement asset images to the PAD rendering module based on an advertisement sequence.

The terms advertisement asset image and advertisement image asset have been used interchangeably hereinafter and throughout the specification. However in the context of the specification both the terms imply or refer to at least one of image advertisements of at least one of a Portable Network Graphics PNG and Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG type videos animations multimedia for example a combination of still images animations and videos shown as at least one of advertisement folder icons or ad folder icons advertisement companions or ad companions and gift wrapper advertisements or gift wrapper ads .

The term advertisement impression or impression refers to display of an advertisement image or advertisement image asset for the complete planned duration to a targeted user.

As shown in the caching module is part of the PAPI layer . The caching module accesses and traverses an advertisement sequence to find out the number of targeted impressions and the ranking index for each advertisement asset image in the advertisement sequence. The caching module fetches or retrieves and stores or caches at least a first set of plurality of advertisement asset images based on the present positions or ranking indices of the advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence for example first three 3 advertisement asset images during booting up of a client device for example the client device of . Each of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images of the advertisement sequence is displayed. In some scenarios upon displaying each of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence at least one of next three 3 advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence is found different from each of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images. Consequently at least one of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images of the advertisement sequence with the lowest targeted impression and ranking index is displayed. Further a new advertisement asset image is fetched from an advertisement asset server for example the advertisement asset server of . Still further the at least one of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence with the lowest targeted impression and ranking index is replaced with the newly fetched advertisement asset image. The aforementioned steps of fetching and storing the first three 3 advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence displaying each of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images finding whether or not at least one of next three 3 advertisement asset images in the advertisement sequence is different from each of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images displaying at least one of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images of the advertisement sequence with a lowest targeted impression and ranking index fetching a new advertisement asset image from the advertisement asset server replacing the at least one of the cached first three 3 advertisement asset images of the advertisement sequence with the lowest targeted impression and ranking index with the newly fetched advertisement asset image are repeated till at least one of the validity date and the targeted impressions for the day are completed.

In some embodiments the latency to access and retrieve an advertisement asset image from the persistent memory of the client device to a random access memory RAM is high. As a result the caching module may be customized to pre fetch a next advertisement asset image to be displayed in the RAM to improve the performance. An advertisement sequence prepared by the PAD server as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of ensures that advertisement asset images in an advertisement bouquet are from active campaigns only.

The term advertisement bouquet or ad bouquet refers to a set of advertisement image assets for a user group competing for the same UI screen space and the same advertisement time slot.

The data from a statistical engine or the statistical engine data for example the data from the statistical engine in the client device of is required to derive a user group from the viewing history and viewing habits of a user. The statistical engine data comprises the viewing history and viewing habits of a user or users collected by the statistical engine in the client device . In some embodiments the statistical engine periodically sends user information to the PAD server of . For example the user information comprising the viewing history and habits of a user is sent every 1 hour to the PAD server . In some embodiments the periodicity of transmission of the user viewing information to the PAD server is configurable. In some embodiments the user information comprises a subscriber and user identifier ID watch start time watch end time event genre and audio language. The terms subscriber and user ID refer to a subscriber and a user identifier of a primary user who is controlling the client device through a smart remote control and watching programs events on the client device . The term watch start time or start time refers to a start time of watching an event by a user in at least one of a given and configurable time period for example 1 hour. The term watch end time or end time refers to an end time of watching an event by a user in at least one of a given and configurable time period for example 1 hour. The term event genre refers to genres of events for example news fashion comedy and the rest watched by a user in at least one of a given and configurable time period for instance 1 hour. In some embodiments if event genre is not available the channel genre such as sports news and the rest watched by a user in at least one of a given and configurable time period for instance 1 hour. The term audio language refers to language of an event watched for English Chinese Malay and so forth by a user in at least one of a given and configurable time period for example 1 hour.

The statistical engine in the client device uses details of viewed events and channels provided by a state machine module for example the state machine module in the client device of . The stored statistical engine data in the RAM of the client device is sent to the PAD server and the previously stored statistical engine data is flushed from the RAM of the client device . The statistical engine manages the details of viewed events and channels by creating and maintaining a statistical engine table. For example the statistical engine table B not explicitly shown and described hereat of the MYSQL DB server comprising the details of viewed events and channels along with the respective timestamps is stored in the RAM of the client device for a certain time period for example 1 hour.

In some embodiments the difference between hourly start and end times of watching for or over a configurable period of time for example 3 6 months is aggregated to calculate the average watched duration per day for each user or per user for a specific subscriber ID for a household. The genres watched by a user are ranked based on the average watched duration per day. One or more parameters are used for profiling a user and to identify a user group to which the profiled user belongs to. For example one or more top ranked genres for example topmost three 3 genres the average watched duration per day for each user or per user and days of watching of a user and so on are used for profiling the user and to identify the user group to which the user belongs to. Based on the days a user watches for example at least one of weekdays and weekends and duration of watching of the user one or more attributes such as gender age employment status and marital status of the user are derived.

The server communication module is responsible for Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP communication between a client device and a PAD server for example the client device and PAD server of . For example the HTTP communication facilitates exchange of XML messages advertisement asset images videos and the like between the client device and PAD server . The server communication module is capable of handling communication errors and performing appropriate corrective actions.

An XML utility for example the XML utility in the client device of parses XML responses i.e. XML response messages received from the PAD server . The XML utility generates XML requests i.e. XML request messages from the client device . The XML request and response messages are communicated between the PAD server and client device through HTTP.

A storage utility for example the storage utility in the client device of provides application programming interfaces APIs for storing advertisement sequence images videos uniform resource locators URLs data into the persistent storage of a client device for example the client device . The initialization module PAPI layer caching module and statistical engine in the middleware layer use the storage utility to read write from or to a persistent storage for example a hard disk or flash memory. The storage utility accesses the middleware layer through a combined personalized advertisements PADs glue and interface layer for example the combined personalized advertisements PADs glue and interface layer of .

The state machine module monitors one or more states of the client devices and changes thereof corresponding to at least one of user actions such as a channel change event change UI application change user change audio language change and so on. In some scenarios upon a change in a given state of the client device the state machine module notifies the components of the PAP component i.e. the PAD rendering module PAPI layer initialization module caching module statistical engine server communication module XML utility storage utility state machine module and personalized advertisements PADs glue interface layer about the change along with the data such as an event genre a channel name an UI ID an audio language.

For example in some use case scenarios a user changes from one channel for instance SKY to another channel for instance FOX . Upon change from one to another channel by a user the state machine module notifies the statistical engine that a channel change has occurred along with a new event name new event genre and new channel name for example FOX.

The PADs glue interface layer abstracts APIs of the middleware layer . The APIs of the middleware layer are used by the PAP component so that the same PAP component may be used across different types of client devices for example one or more of the client device . In some embodiments if the middleware layer changes from one client device to another then only the implementation of the PADs glue interface layer needs to be changed to ensure that the PAP component is not changed.

In some embodiments the middleware layer comprises one or more interfaces . The interfaces are required for the middleware layer in the client device . For example the interfaces include a channel and an event change information an event genre and a channel genre information a user ID information a UI screen ID information an event name and a channel name an event synopsis an Event Information Table EIT information i.e. schedule and EIT Present Following P F a client device ID and a device model number a Random Access Memory RAM persistent memory i.e. a Hard Disk Drive HDD flash memory available for PADs and storage APIs display APIs HTTP communication APIs XML library support as depicted in .

In some embodiments each of the client devices comprises a storage memory not shown here explicitly . In some embodiments the storage memory is external to each of the client devices . For example recorded contents are stored in a cloud storage memory of a cloud server or a networked DVR hard disk or Video Video on Demand VoD servers.

In some embodiments the PAD rendering module displays personalized advertisements in at least one of the favorite channel list application personalized recorded content organizer application AV multimedia buffer download OSD UI application gift message OSD UI application and watch TV application all of the foregoing of using the PAPI layer of . For each of the host UI applications the PAD rendering module is implemented to display personalized advertisements and corresponding advertisement companion assets.

The server subsystem includes the PAD server database DB server advertisement asset server web server and billing server all of the foregoing of .

As shown in the PAD server includes an advertisement selection module ASM a target impression calculation module an advertisement sequence calculation module and a XML communication module .

The advertisement selection module selects an advertisement bouquet and advertisement sequence based on a user group to which a user currently watching a client device of belongs to and a target user group based on target audience input provided by an advertiser as depicted in .

In some embodiments during at least one of first time and subsequent installation of a client device for example the client device of a user logs in and voluntarily registers his her profile details with a PAD server for example the PAD server of using the pop up OSD UI . In some embodiments an incentive in the form of discounted subscription fee is offered in the event that the user agrees to voluntarily register his her profile details with the PAD server .

The term primary user refers to a user in a household controlling TV programs through a smart remote control. The term secondary user s refers to all other users in a group of users comprising the primary user watching the TV programs controlled by the primary user.

In some embodiments at least one of fingerprint recognition or authentication on at least one of the frequently used keys in an advanced smart remote control facilitates identification of a primary user watching the AV content or TV program. As used in information security the term personally identifiable information or PII refers to information that can be used solo or with other information to at least one of identify contact locate a single person and to identify an individual in context. The primary user information is sent to a statistical engine for example the statistical engine in the client device of . In some embodiments during user registration along with his her profile details the user also provides at least one of a fingerprint so that the user profile details along with his her fingerprint is stored for subsequent reference and comparison in the client device . However from the standpoint of information security the fingerprint details of a primary user are considered as PII and thus not sent to the PAD server . The fingerprint details of the primary user are only used locally in the client device to identify user ID of the primary user controlling the client device . Upon identification of the primary user the user ID of the primary user who is watching the client device is sent to the PAD server . For example the channel up down remote key or other frequently used remote control keys have a finger print recognition algorithm built in the smart remote control of the client device .

In some embodiments the on screen user interface UI menu facilitates at least one of modifying i.e. changing from a currently existing primary user to a new primary user and renaming currently existing username to a new username. It must be noted here that instead of sending the user name of the primary user watching the client device to the PAD server anonymous user ID information is sent to the PAD server . In some alternative embodiments renaming currently existing username to a new username is used instead of finger print facial image details.

In some embodiments in the event that a primary user fails to give his her user profile during installation and login using the pop up OSD UI of then passive monitoring of the viewing behavior of the primary user is performed using a statistical engine for example the statistical engine in the client device of .

In some embodiments profile details of users in a household obtained from each client device is sent to the PAD server . The PAD server collates and stores the profile details of users into a DB server for example the MYSQL DB server of . The PAD server identifies a user group to which each of the users in the household belongs to. In some embodiments user groups are identified by deriving values of one or more attributes such as gender age group income category employment status marital status and so on corresponding to each of the users in the user groups. An advertisement selection module for example the advertisement selection module of the PAD server as depicted in selects the advertisement assets for a user group based on one or more users currently using the client device .

Table 1 shows an exemplary tabular representation for an identifier of a user group. As shown in the Table 1 there are four columns each for one field or attribute of a user group namely a marital status an age group an employment status a gender and a household income.

Further as shown in the Table 1 the marital status has at least one of a textual or alphabetical value S for users who are single and C for users who are committed. The age group has at least one of a numerical value 1 for users who are kids or kid users wherein ages of the users range from a minimum of approximately 6 years to a maximum of approximately 12 years 2 for users who are teens teen users wherein ages of the users range from a minimum of approximately 13 years to a maximum of approximately 21 years 3 for users who are youths youth users wherein ages of the users range from a minimum of approximately 22 years to a maximum of approximately 28 years 4 for users who are adults adult users wherein ages of the users range from a minimum of approximately 29 years to a maximum of approximately 60 years 5 for users who are old old users wherein ages of the users range from a minimum of approximately 60 years and above. The employment status has at least one of a textual value E for users who are employed and U for users who are unemployed. The gender has at least one of a textual value M for users who are male and F for users who are female. The household income has at least one of a textual value H for users who fall in high income group A for users who fall in average income group and L for users who fall in low income group. Thus for example the term C4EMH refers to an identifier for a user group comprising married adult employed males with high household income. Likewise for example the term 2MA refers to another identifier for a user group comprising teen males with average household income.

In some embodiments a survey is conducted over and across a given selected sample set of a given selected sample size comprising one or more diverse human subjects or users to capture interpret and develop overall user profiles corresponding to the users thereby facilitating design and implementation of a survey database not shown here explicitly . For example the given selected sample set includes 1000 diverse human subjects. In some embodiments an overall user profile of a user comprises one or more sub profiles of the user corresponding to a biological viewing activity and viewing interest profiles thereof.

In some embodiments a survey questionnaire is constructed to build a survey database not shown here explicitly . The survey questionnaire comprises a series of queries for one or more human subjects or users comprising a given selected sample set of a given selected sample size. The sample questionnaire comprises one or more following queries for example What is your gender and age Are you employed or not Are you married or not What is your annual income range How many hours you watch TV during week days and weekends holidays At what time you watch TV during week day and weekends holidays Which are the top three 3 genres you like to watch and Which are the top three 3 genres you do not like to watch . 

In some embodiments a set of rules are derived from the survey database . A new survey of sufficient number of diverse human subjects is done at the location where the system is installed as the survey data is dependent on culture of people and the type of contents broadcasted in a geographical location. The derived set of rules is applied to overall viewing profile of a user obtained from a client device for example the client device of to identify a user group for the user. For purposes of clarity and expediency the derived set of rules are hereinafter referred to as RULES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 in that order.

As depicted in the first plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching time of males and females of different age groups on week days for different time slots possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is time slot in 24 hour format percentage probability of TV watching time horizontal X axis includes closed intervals in hours of time slots namely a first time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 06 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 08 00 hrs or 6 8 a second time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 08 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 11 00 hrs or 8 11 a third time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 11 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 14 00 hrs or 11 14 a fourth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 14 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 16 00 hrs or 14 16 a fifth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 16 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 19 00 hrs or 16 19 a sixth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 19 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 23 00 hrs or 19 23 vertical Y axis includes a closed interval of percentage probabilities of TV watching time values ranging from a minimum of equal to 0 to a maximum of equal to 80 analytical information is analysis of the first plot for the percentage probabilities of TV watching time of males and females of different age groups on week days for different time slots subject or volunteer information includes closed and partially closed open intervals in years of males and females of different age groups namely a kids age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 6 years to a maximum of equal to 12 years a teen age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 13 years to a maximum of equal to 21 years a youth age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 22 years to a maximum of equal to 28 years an adult age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 29 years to a maximum of equal to 60 years and an old age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 60 years and above.

The derived RULE 1 facilitates finding percentage probabilities of TV watching time of males and females of different age groups on week days for different time slots based on analysis observation and interpretation of the first plot of . For example in accordance with RULE 1 if the percentage probability of watching TV in a specific time slot is at least 20 more vis vis other users in a household then an age group of a user are derived using the first plot of .

As depicted in the second plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching for event genres by males and females of different age groups possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is event genre percentage probability of TV watching for event genres horizontal X axis includes one or more event genres namely action drama comedy music sports spiritual education news arts family crime cartoon nature lifestyle and romance vertical Y axis includes a closed interval of percentage probabilities of TV watching for event genres ranging from a minimum of equal to 0 to a maximum of equal to 80 analytical information is analysis of the second plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching for event genres by males and females of different age groups subject or volunteer information includes males and females of different age groups.

As depicted in the third plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekdays possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is time slot in 24 hr format percentage probability of TV watching TV horizontal X axis includes closed intervals in hours of time slots namely a seventh time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 06 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 08 00 hrs or 6 8 an eighth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 08 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 11 00 hrs or 8 11 a ninth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 11 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 14 00 hrs or 11 14 a tenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 14 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 16 00 hrs or 14 16 an eleventh time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 16 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 19 00 hrs or 16 19 a twelfth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 19 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 23 00 hrs or 19 23 vertical Y axis includes a closed interval of percentage probabilities of TV watching time ranging from a minimum of equal to 0 to a maximum of equal to 80 analytical information is analysis of the third plot for percentage probability of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekdays subject or volunteer information includes unemployed and employed people of different age groups.

As depicted in the fourth plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching time of people of different age groups on weekends possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is time slot in 24 hr format percentage probability of TV watching TV horizontal X axis includes closed intervals in hours of time slots namely a thirteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 06 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 08 00 hrs or 6 8 a fourteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 08 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 11 00 hrs or 8 11 a fifteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 11 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 14 00 hrs or 11 14 a sixteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 14 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 16 00 hrs or 14 16 a seventeenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 16 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 19 00 hrs or 16 19 an eighteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 19 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 23 00 hrs or 19 23 vertical Y axis includes a closed interval of percentage probabilities of TV watching time ranging from a minimum of equal to 0 to a maximum of equal to 80 analytical information is analysis of the fourth plot for percentage probability of TV watching time of people of different age groups on weekends subject or volunteer information includes people of different age groups includes closed and partially closed open intervals in years of males and females of different age groups namely a second kids age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 6 years to a maximum of equal to 12 years a second teen age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 13 years to a maximum of equal to 21 years a second youth age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 22 years to a maximum of equal to 28 years an second adult age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 29 years to a maximum of equal to 60 years and a second old age group ranging from a minimum of equal to 60 years and above.

As depicted in the fifth plot for percentage probabilities of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed employed people of different Age groups on weekends possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is time slot in 24 hr format percentage probability of TV watching TV horizontal X axis includes closed intervals in hours of time slots namely a nineteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 06 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 08 00 hrs or 6 8 a twentieth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 08 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 11 00 hrs or 8 11 a fifteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 11 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 14 00 hrs or 11 14 a sixteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 14 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 16 00 hrs or 14 16 a seventeenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 16 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 19 00 hrs or 16 19 an eighteenth time slot ranging from a minimum of equal to 19 00 hrs to a maximum of equal to 23 00 hrs or 19 23 vertical Y axis includes a closed interval of percentage probabilities of TV watching time ranging from a minimum of equal to 0 to a maximum of equal to 80 analytical information is analysis of the fifth plot for percentage probability of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed employed people of different age groups on weekends subject or volunteer information includes unemployed employed people of different age groups.

The derived RULE 2 facilitates finding percentage probabilities of TV watching time for event genres by males and females of different age groups TV watching time of at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekdays people of different age groups on weekends and at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekends based on analyses observations and interpretations of or in connection with the second third fourth and fifth plots and of . The analyses observations and interpretations of the second third fourth and fifth plots and of are used to develop a rule book to derive a user group from viewing habits of people or users observed for a selected period of time. Thus the derivation of a user group from viewing habits of people or users observed for the selected period of time based on the rule book involving analyses observations and interpretations of the plots in constitutes the RULE 2. In some embodiments the selection of a period of time over which viewing habits of people or users are observed is configurable. For example the selected period of time over which viewing habits of people or users are observed is 3 months.

The RULE 3 facilitates finding percentage probability of TV watching time for event genres by males and females of different age groups based on the analysis observation and interpretation of the first plot of .

As shown in the fourth plot of percentage probabilities of TV watching time of people of different age groups on weekends is used to verify age groups based on derivation from the analysis observation and interpretation of the first plot of . The derived RULE 4 thus facilitates verification of age groups using analysis observation and interpretation of the fourth plot of based on derivation from the analysis observation and interpretation of the first plot of .

The derived RULE 5 facilitates finding percentage probability of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekdays based on analysis observation and interpretation of the third plot of . The third plot is used to derive the employment status of a user i.e. whether the user is at least one of employed or unemployed based on viewing pattern of the user. As shown in analysis observation and interpretation of the fifth plot facilitates finding percentage probabilities of TV watching time of at least one of unemployed and employed people of different age groups on weekends. Further in accordance with the RULE 5 the findings and derivations of the fifth plot is used to verify the derived employment status of people of different age groups based on weekdays viewing pattern obtained using analysis observation and interpretation of the third plot of .

In accordance with the RULE 6 switching between TV channels increases in group user watching scenarios i.e. if users are watching in a group vis vis single user watching scenarios i.e. if a single user is watching. Likewise movies are less watched on weekdays if people are employed.

In accordance with the RULE 7 if at least one user in a household is a kid and if at least another pair of users in the household are a male and female then the inference is that the at least another pair of users in the household are married.

In accordance with the RULE 8 housewives are more likely to watch TV in the afternoon than in the forenoon on weekdays.

Table 2 shows an exemplary tabular representation for a list of users and corresponding user groups. As shown in the Table 2 there are two columns namely a user list for a list of users and corresponding user groups based on data from a client device for example the client device of .

In some embodiments users are categorized into different user groups for example as shown in the Table 2 based on the attributes of the users like gender age marital and employment status and income.

In some embodiments the household income is difficult to derive based on passive monitoring of the viewing habits of a user. Thus the household income is derived on the basis of at least one of a user profile directly entered by a user for example as shown in and the available purchase profile and spending patterns of the user.

In some embodiments the RULES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 derived from the survey database may be applied on the data from a statistical engine for example the statistical engine of the client device of obtained from users based on their viewing patterns to identify a user group.

The statistical engine in each client device sends user data or information including one or more parameters such as a user ID start watch time end watch time event genre and audio language periodically for example every one hour to a PAD server for example the PAD server of . A MYSQL DB server for example the MYSQL DB server of stores the hourly data in a statistical engine table for example the statistical engine table B not explicitly shown and described hereat . Upon availability of cumulative data for a selected period for example 3 months for a user in the statistical engine table B at least one of an average watch duration and genre for different predefined time slots during weekdays and weekends is calculated and stored in an average watch duration table for example the average watch duration table I not explicitly shown and described hereat of the MYSQL DB server .

In some embodiments the RULES 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 derived from the survey data in the survey database are applied by an advertisement selection module for example the advertisement selection module of the PAD server of the server subsystem as shown in on the average watch duration table I to identify the probable user groups from at least a plurality of user groups.

In some embodiments an advertiser during uploading an advertisement asset of a product through a web server for example the web server of the server subsystem of provides targeted audience data such as age group gender profession and so on as depicted in . From the targeted audience data a set of targeted user groups from at least a plurality of user groups is obtained for each campaign asset.

Table 3 shows an exemplary tabular representation for a list of assets and corresponding targeted user groups provided by the advertisers. As shown in the Table 3 there are two columns namely an asset list from an advertiser s campaign data and corresponding targeted user groups in an asset table for example the asset table A not explicitly shown and described hereat of the MYSQL DB server .

In some embodiments if a user group of a current primary user using a client device for example the client device of in the Table 2 and a targeted user group in the Table 3 matches a corresponding advertisement image is selected from the advertisement sequence for the user group calculated for a given day is delivered to the client device. For example a user group with a user group ID 1ML in the Table 2 matches with a targeted user group with a user group ID 1ML in the Table 3 thus a corresponding asset with an asset ID A1011 i.e. KIDS CYCLE is delivered to the client devices with user IDs S100.U1 and S102.U1.

The advertisement selection module of the PAD server of the server subsystem as shown in analyzes and applies the RULES 1 8 on historical data of a viewer recorded for or over a period of time by the statistical engine in the client device of to obtain one or more details in connection with the viewer. For example a gender such as at least one of male and female an age group such as at least one of kid teen youth adult and old an employment status for instance at least one of employed and unemployed and a marital status for instance at least one of committed and single. In some embodiments user profile details of all users in a household needs to be or are identified to derive the relationships between all the users and to find a most probabilistic user group of each user. Further an average watch duration per day less than and equal to a configurable time duration for example less than and equal to or 

A target impression calculation module for example the target impression calculation module of the PAD server as shown in derives the number of impressions of advertisement asset images to be displayed or to display per user per day namely NUMBER OF IMPRESSIONS DAY USER or NI in UI screens based on one or more parameters.

Specifically the target impression calculation module derives the NI based on a first parameter namely NI TOTAL second parameter namely CAMPAIGN DAYS and third parameter namely NU. The first parameter NI TOTAL refers to the total number of impressions of an advertisement image asset as specified by an advertiser as part of an advertisement campaign. The second parameter CAMPAIGN DAYS refers to the duration of the advertisement campaign in days as specified by the advertiser. The third parameter NU refers to the number of users in a targeted user group to which the advertisement image asset can be served or delivered.

In some embodiments the number of advertisement impressions per user per day NUMBER OF IMPRESSIONS DAY USER or NI is calculated for all active advertisement image assets as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the daily routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of . Since remaining campaign days or campaign period in days and total number of remaining impressions for active advertisement image assets change every day.

The number of impressions displayed on a previous day for all users for a given selected advertisement asset image namely NI ACTUAL PREVDAY is updated in an actual impression tracker table for example the actual impression tracker table G not explicitly shown and described hereat in the MYSQL DB server of as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component for the current day. In some scenarios the target number of impressions for the given selected advertisement asset image for the current day namely NI TODAY is not met. Stated differently if the total actual impressions displayed is less than NI TODAY for the given selected advertisement asset image then the backlog is added to the total remaining impressions namely NI REM. The computation of the NI REM is represented by a following Equation 1 NI REM NI REM NI ACTUAL PREVDAY. Equation 1 .

As depicted in the sixth plot for advertisement campaign days versus target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is day target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day horizontal X axis represents days vertical Y axis represents target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day analytical information is analysis of the sixth plot for advertisement campaign days and target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day.

As shown in the sixth plot is a concave up decreasing curve. As depicted herein the concave up decreasing curve for the sixth plot implies that the target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day exponentially decreases with increasing advertisement campaign days or an increase in the advertisement campaign days.

As depicted in the seventh plot for the remaining advertisement campaign days versus target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day possess the following specifications and associated analytical information thereof ordered pair is remaining advertisement campaign days target impressions per day horizontal X axis represents remaining campaign days vertical Y axis represents target impressions per day analytical information is analysis of the seventh plot for the remaining advertisement campaign days versus target impressions for an advertisement asset image per day.

As depicted in the seventh plot is a right angled triangle. Thus if the total remaining impressions for an advertisement asset image NI REM is represented by the area of the right angled triangle and if a remaining advertisement campaign period calculated every day namely REM CP is represented by the base of the right angled triangle then target number of impressions for today NI TODAY for the asset across targeted users is represented by the height of the right angled triangle . The calculation of the targeted impressions per day or TARGETED IMPRESSIONS DAY is used to give the maximum number of advertisements at the start of an advertisement campaign to get maximum attention of users for new advertisements.

In some embodiments involving design and implementation of an algorithm for computation of the NI advantageously the target impressions for the last days of an advertisement campaign is less because maximum part of the target impressions is achieved during an initial advertisement campaign period. Therefore the number of impressions to be given today NI TODAY across all targeted users is calculated using a following Equation 2 NI TODAY NI REM 2 REM CP. Equation 2 .

In some embodiments the number of impressions per user for today namely NI USR TODAY is computed using a following Equation 3 NI USR TODAY NI TODAY NU. Equation 3 where NU is the number of users in a user group to whom a given selected advertisement asset image can be targeted.

An advertisement sequence calculation module for example the advertisement sequence calculation module of the PAD server as shown in determines a sequence for display of a set of advertisement images for a user group. In some embodiments an advertiser mentions a target audience details or attributes such as gender age group employment status and so on to which an advertisement asset is targeted.

Table 3A shows an exemplary tabular representation of the target audience details corresponding to each advertisement image asset as specified by corresponding advertisers. As shown in the Table 3A there are three columns namely an asset identifier ID a brand and product names as given in an advertisement campaign and corresponding target user groups as provided by the corresponding advertisers.

As shown in the Table 3A a user group bearing ID C4EMH needs to be displayed or provided with one or more advertisement assets with asset IDs namely A1010 A1015 as per the specifications provided by corresponding advertisers. The Table 3A facilitates in finding out an advertisement sequence in which the advertisement assets with asset IDs A1010 A1015 is to be advertised for a user who belongs to the user group bearing ID C4EMH.

The sequence in which a given selected advertisement asset image is displayed for a specific user profile depends on one or more factors such as a priority of advertisement image asset revenue expected brand value a loyalty index of an advertiser remaining advertisement impressions and so forth. The loyalty index of an advertiser is in turn based on one or more factors such as the advertiser s prompt payment long association with a multiple system operator MSO and so on. The remaining advertisement impressions for a given day NI TODAY is derived from total remaining impressions NI REM and the remaining campaign period in days i.e. REM CP.

Each advertisement asset image uploaded by an advertiser through the UI of the web server of is given a unique asset identification number called asset ID.

The targeted impressions per user per day NI for an asset is calculated every day as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of .

In some embodiments in order to speed up decision making in connection with an advertisement sequence during reception of requests from a client device for example the client device of and during implementation of a second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks as performed by a dynamic user request processing module for example the dynamic user request processing module of the performance optimization component of the entire advertisement sequence is created for each user group for a given selected day as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks as the advertisement sequence is valid only for the current day.

Table 15 shows an exemplary tabular representation for generation of an advertisement sequence. As shown in the Table 15 there are six columns namely an advertisement asset ID targeted impressions per user per day NI USR TODAY priority of the advertisement asset P loyalty index of the advertiser LI ranking index NI USR TODAY P LI and rank.

In some embodiments an advertisement sequence for each cycle of opportunity is concatenated and stored in the MYSQL DB server of for a user group till the targeted impressions and ranking indices of all advertisement assets in an advertisement bouquet for the user group for a given day becomes zero. The generation of an advertisement sequence for each cycle of opportunity is based on the ranking index calculated using a following Equation 6 Ranking Index NI USR TODAY P LI Equation 6 as shown in the Table 15.

The generation of the advertisement sequence for each cycle of opportunity is an activity under the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of . The generation of the advertisement sequence for each cycle of opportunity is repeated for each advertisement bouquet. The total number of advertisement sequence entries in the MYSQL database of the MYSQL DB server of will be equal to total number of target user groups provided by the advertisers for all active advertisement assets.

In some embodiments a position of an advertisement asset to be displayed next to be precise the last displayed advertisement asset position 1 in an advertisement sequence is maintained for each user. Upon display of each advertisement asset as per a stored advertisement sequence the position of next advertisement asset to be displayed for each user is updated in the MYSQL database of the MYSQL DB server .

In some embodiments the loyalty index LI of an advertiser is calculated by an MSO based on one or more factors. For example the loyalty index LI of an advertiser is calculated based on 1 the advertiser is at least one of a first time and repeat customer of the MSO 2 number of times the advertiser has advertised with the MSO before if the advertiser is a repeat customer 3 advertisement revenue from repeat business from the advertiser with the MSO in last one year including the current one 4 timely payment behavior and history of the advertiser and 5 early termination or cancellation history or behavior of the advertiser in any and all advertisement campaigns before the minimum campaign duration. Each of the five factors for calculation of LI of an advertiser carries a weightage for example a numerical value of 1 and the sum is the LI which can vary from a minimum weightage for example a numerical value of 1 to a maximum weightage for example a numerical value of 5.

Likewise the priority P of an advertiser is calculated by an MSO based on based on one or more factors. For example the priority P of an advertiser is calculated based on 1 campaign duration for instance duration above six 6 months is considered HIGH duration between three 3 to six 6 months i.e. 3 months and 2 RANGE3. In some scenarios advertisers give better revenue to MSO after bidding for high demand and frequently used screen spaces in UIs.

In some embodiments in order to arrive at an advertisement sequence a rule is designed and implemented in an activity as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the daily routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of . For example if the total number of advertisement assets in the advertisement bouquet are greater than 3 and if the top ranked advertisement assets based on ranking indices or of the ranks of the top three 3 ranked assets is greater than and equal to 3 then the number of advertisement assets to be displayed in an advertisement sequence is equal to the top ranked assets of the advertisement bouquet rounded off to a higher integer. Else if the top ranked assets is less than 

In some scenarios if the ranking indices for two or more assets are same then an asset not yet displayed is picked up first. In some embodiments a minimum of the top three 3 ranked assets are set to be displayed in the decreasing order of ranking indices to reduce boredom and to increase engagement level of a user. The factor 3 for the top rule is configurable by an MSO as part of the operator settings. For example as depicted in the Table 15 number of top ranked assets are total number of assets 3 2 which is less than 3. Equation 5 

Thus instead of displaying the top two 2 ranked assets with corresponding asset IDs A1015 and A1012 the top three 3 ranked assets with corresponding asset IDs in descending order of ranking indices A1015 A1013 and A1014 are displayed in a first 1 advertisement opportunity.

Upon placement of a first 1 set of advertisements in the first 1 advertisement opportunity the ranking indices are again calculated and ranks determined for a second 2 advertisement opportunity which is again the same as the first one. Likewise upon display of a second 2 set of advertisements in the descending order of the ranking indices in the second 2 advertisement opportunity the ranking indices are again calculated and ranks determined for a third 3rd advertisement opportunity which is now different A1015 A1011 A1014 as shown in Table 16. The display of advertisements in a rank sequence is continued till the ranking indices for all advertisement assets in the advertisement bouquet become zero.

Table 16 shows an exemplary tabular representation for generation of an advertisement sequence for a third 3 advertisement opportunity of an advertisement sequence. As shown in the Table 16 there are six columns namely an advertisement asset ID targeted impressions per user per day NI USR TODAY priority of the advertisement asset P loyalty index of the advertiser LI ranking index NI USR TODAY P LI and rank.

Tables 17 and 18 show exemplary tabular representations for the start and end parts of an advertisement sequence in the descending order of ranking indices calculated in Tables 15 and 16 above for an example user group comprising committed employed and married adult males aged between 36 60 yrs with a user group ID C4EMH. The advertisement sequence for a given day ends till the targeted impressions and ranking indices of all assets in the advertisement bouquet becomes zero.

All XML requests i.e. XML request messages and XML responses i.e. XML response messages in XML communication between the PAD server and all the client devices of is handled by an XML communication module for example the XML communication module of the PAD server as depicted in and the XML utility module as depicted in . As shown in a Table 4 the XML requests from one or more client devices are generated by the XML utility module and the XML responses from the PAD server are generated by the XML communication module .

Table 4 shows an exemplary tabular representation for XML requests from one or more client devices generated by the XML utility module and XML responses from the PAD server generated using the XML communication module . As shown in the Table 4 there are three columns namely IDs XML requests from the client device and XML responses from the PAD server .

The ID XML1 in the Table 4 corresponds to a WHOAMI XML request message including the subscriber ID device model number and UI application version number during booting up of a client device of . In response the PAD server sends an XML response message including the response status of the message for example at least one of failure error and success an advertisement sequence for each of one or more user IDs in a subscriber ID for a given day a location URL of a non repeated advertisement asset and location URL of a corresponding advertisement companion asset present in the advertisement asset server of the corresponding image types of the non repeated advertisement asset and corresponding advertisement companion assets of the advertisement sequence and the validity date of the advertisement sequence which is the current date.

In use the client device subsequently boots up of at a selected time in a day with a valid advertisement sequence for all the user groups in a household the first three 3 advertisement image assets for each advertisement sequence the URLs of all advertisement image assets for all the advertisement bouquets corresponding to all the user groups in the household and the corresponding URLs of advertisement companion assets stored in the persistent memory of the client device .

In some scenarios in the event that the client device at least one of boots up multiple times on the same date and fails to boot up any time on a given day owing to retention of the standby mode the client device compares the validity date of the stored advertisement sequence with the current date extracted from an AV signal or the system date. In some scenarios in the event that the validity date of the stored advertisement sequence and the current date are different then a new BOOTUP XML request i.e. XML1 is sent to the PAD Server to get the new advertisement sequence and details thereof.

The ID XML2 in the Table 4 corresponds to an advertisement display tracker ADT request message containing the subscriber ID asset ID actual displayed duration of the asset in the UI screen and the user feedback for the advertisement asset for example interested and so on after the display of each advertisement asset image in the UI Screens of the client device of . In some scenarios in the event that the XML1 has been already sent for a given day the PAD server responds with an XML response message including the response status of the message for example at least one of failure error and success. On the contrary in some scenarios in the event that the XML1 has not been sent for a given day the PAD server sends the same XML1 response message to the ADT request message from the client device .

The ID XML3 in the Table 4 corresponds to a periodic statistical engine data XML message including an audio language event name event genre watch start time and watch end time for each of the users who watched i.e. user IDs in a subscriber ID for a given period of time for example one 1 hour sent by the statistical engine in the client device . The PAD server responds with an XML response message including the response status of the message for example at least one of failure error and success after storing the received statistical engine data in the statistical engine table B in the MySQL database of .

In some embodiments one or more XML requests are generated from the client devices for one or more parameters such as a subscriber ID a user ID an application version an event genre a width a height an opportunity and an asset ID. The subscriber ID is a unique identification of each client device for example S100045. The user ID is a unique user identification of a current primary user for example S100045.U1. The application version is a version number of a UI application. The genre is a name of an event genre on a client device for example cookery sports history and so on. In some scenarios if event genre is not available then channel genre is used. The width is the width of the available free advertisement space in pixels on a currently active UI screen. The height is height of the available free advertisement space in pixels on a currently active UI screen. The opportunity is the number of opportunities or free advertisement spaces present in the current UI screen. The asset ID is a unique asset identification allocated by the web server for each asset image uploaded by an advertiser.

The advertisement asset server has a repository not shown here explicitly which stores all advertisement campaign assets for example images video and so forth uploaded by different advertisers. Each asset is organized based on advertisement campaigns and is assigned with a unique Asset ID. For each unique asset ID a storage path URL allocated by the web server is stored in the DB server for example MYSQL DB server for communicating to the client devices by the PAD sever . The PAD server provides the URL of an asset path in response to a request from a client device based on an advertisement sequence stored in the PAD server . Based on the URL of the asset path received from the PAD server the client devices directly access the advertisement asset server and download asset images for an advertisement.

The web server provides a UI for advertisers and MSOs LCOs to interact and use the system . The web server provides customized interface screens for advertisers to create advertisement campaigns upload assets and provide details of a targeted audience of an advertisement asset. The UI screens of the web server provide queries and analytics support for operators and advertisers. The UI of the web server provides flexibility for the MSOs LCOs to configure and customize the system based on the requirements of the MSOs LCOs and the advertisers. The MSOs LCOs can set up the start and stop time of a daily based wake up task set holidays in a year calendar. All the holidays are considered as week ends while users are profiled.

The advertiser needs to feed into and or select from one or more of alphabetical numerical values and a combination thereof for example alphanumeric values wherever preselected values are available as options against one or more predefined or configurable parameters. For example as shown in the advertiser needs to feed into and or select from the alphabetical numerical values and alphanumeric values wherever preselected values are available as options against the following parameters namely a product service brand solution to be advertised fed as an alphabetical value such as a name a market segment of the product service brand solution to be advertised selectable from following options available as preselected alphabetical values such as HIGH MEDIUM and LOW an asset display duration fed as a numerical value in seconds an asset priority selectable from following options available as preselected alphabetical values such as HIGH MEDIUM and LOW a campaign period fed as an alphanumeric date value such as a start date and end date a total number of impressions expected during the campaign period namely NI TOTAL fed as a numerical value an advertisement asset image type selectable from following options available as preselected alphabetical image file format values such as JPEG PNG and the like and a target audience overall profile for a product fed into and or selected from the alphabetical numerical values and alphanumeric values wherever preselected values are available as options against the following parameters such as gender age group profession annual income and so on.

As shown in the target audience overall profile or target audience details provided by an advertiser is parsed by the web server and a target user group is identified and stored in an asset table A of the MYSQL DB server for example MYSQL DB server for all assets uploaded by each advertiser.

The billing server provides periodic bills for advertisers to enable them to take the right advertisement decisions. During the creation of an advertisement campaign an advertiser needs to pay an initial bill amount to make the campaign active from a start date. Upon start of the campaign the billing server provides progressive bills to the advertiser based on a campaign period. A billing amount is based on a size of an advertisement image asset the campaign period asset priority and number of displayed impressions.

The database DB server for example MYSQL DB server stores data provided by advertisers and data obtained from the client devices . In some embodiments as shown in the MYSQL DB server maintains one or more database tables which can be queried by the PAD server advertisement asset server web server and billing server of the system . Specifically the one or more database tables of the MYSQL DB server includes an asset table A statistical engine table B a user group table C an advertisement sequence table D a WHOAMI Table E an advertisement display tracker table F an actual impression tracker table G a billing table H and an average watch duration table I.

Table 5 shows an exemplary tabular representation for the asset table A of the MYSQL DB server of for managing details of each advertisement asset. As shown in the Table 5 there are three columns namely fields or attributes of each advertisement asset description of each of the fields and a sample data for each of the fields.

As shown in the Table 5 the asset table A is used to maintain details related to each advertisement asset. Registered advertisers upload the advertisement assets through the web server of via specifying one or more parameters such as details of the advertisement asset total impressions required start and end dates of advertisement campaign and targeted audience for a product to be advertised. The web server allocates a unique asset ID for each asset uploaded by the advertiser.

A targeted number of impressions of the advertisement asset per user per day and a cumulative actual impressions displayed for the advertisement asset till date across all users are updated in the asset table A every day. An asset status is changed from active to inactive when at least one of the total targeted number of impressions given by an advertiser is achieved a campaign period is over and the advertiser defaults payment. The asset table A is updated every day by the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of initiated by the PAD server of .

Table 6 shows an exemplary tabular representation for the statistical engine table B of the MYSQL DB server of for storing viewing habits of each user periodically for example on an hourly basis as obtained from the client device of . As shown in the Table 6 there are five columns namely a user ID an event name an event genre and audio language and a start and end time stamp.

The data stored in the statistical engine table B is used by the advertisement selection module of the PAD server as shown in to derive a user group for each registered user. The frequency of updation of the statistical engine table B depends on a number of users watching TV during an hourly monitoring window.

For example the Table 6 shows a sample set from 20 21 hrs in 24 hr format sent from the statistical engine to the PAD server of wherein three 3 different users for instance Dad Mom and Brother in a household watched different events namely Breaking News Desperate Housewives and US Idol. The data received from the client device of will have three 3 different entries in the statistical engine table B corresponding to the user IDs of the three 3 different users.

Table 7 shows an exemplary tabular representation for storage of an entry corresponding to a user for example Mom from the sample set of data from Table 106. As shown in the Table 7 there are four columns namely a serial number a corresponding field s a corresponding description of the field and a corresponding sample data for the field obtained as sample set from the client device .

Table 8 shows an exemplary tabular representation for a user group table for example the user group table C of MYSQL DB server of for storage of a derived user group of each user. As shown in the Table 8 there are four columns namely a serial number a corresponding field s a corresponding description of the field and a corresponding sample data for the field.

As shown in the Table 8 the user group table C stores a derived user group of each user. The user group is derived based on viewing habits of each user captured over a configurable period of time for example monitoring three 3 months window period from the statistical engine table B of MYSQL DB server of . In some embodiments if the data from the statistical engine in the client device of is received for the first time for a new user the PAD server of will add the received data from the statistical engine to the statistical engine table B with a user group as blank or null. The PAD server sets a start date as a received time stamp date and sets an end date by adding a configurable monitoring window period of the statistical engine for example three 3 months to the already set start date. The data from the statistical engine received for the entire three 3 months period is required to accurately identify a user group of a specific user. Once the user group of an existing user is identified in the configurable monitoring window period for example three 3 months the start date and end date are modified to next three 3 months monitoring window period. Only once in three 3 months the process of identification of a user group will be repeated because some users may move from one user group to another because of change in age or change in a employment status and so on. The user group table C is checked daily in a wakeup task performed by the PAD server but updated only once in a monitoring window period for example 3 months.

Table 9 shows an exemplary tabular representation for an advertisement sequence table for example the advertisement sequence table D of MYSQL DB server of for storage of a sequence of advertisement assets to be displayed for each user group. As shown in the Table 9 there are four columns namely a serial number a corresponding field s a corresponding description of the field and a corresponding sample data for the field.

The advertisement sequence table D is used to store a sequence of advertisement assets to be displayed for each user group. The advertisement sequence table D will be updated daily by a first tier daily based wakeup tasks as performed by a routine wakeup tasks performance module for example the routine wakeup tasks performance module of a performance optimization component for example the performance optimization component of initiated by the PAD server of .

Table 10 shows an exemplary tabular representation for a WHOAMI table for example the WHOAMI table E not explicitly shown and described hereat of the MYSQL DB server of for storage of overall configuration details of the client device to the PAD server during the first time boot up. As shown in the Table 10 there are four columns namely a serial number a corresponding field s a corresponding description of the field and a corresponding sample data for the field.

The WHOAMI Table E stores overall configuration data or capability details as shown in the Table 10 sent by the client device to the PAD server during the first time boot up. Upon storing the overall configuration data received the PAD server assigns a unique subscriber ID to each of the client device . The overall capability data is used by the PAD server to send a right type of advertisement asset to the client device .

Table 11 shows an exemplary tabular representation for an advertisement display tracker table for example the advertisement display tracker table F of MYSQL DB server of for tracking details of advertisement assets displayed on a client device for example the client device and feedback of a user of the client device through an advertisement companion asset. As shown in the Table 11 there are three columns namely field s a corresponding description of each of the fields and a corresponding sample data for each of the fields.

As shown in the Table 11 the advertisement display tracker table F keeps track of details of advertisement assets displayed on the client device and feedback of a user of the client device feedbacks through an advertisement companion asset. The advertisement display tracker table F will be updated by the PAD server as and when the advertisement asset is displayed on the client device which may be frequent for example 3 seconds. Upon displaying the advertisement asset image the client device sends an advertisement display tracking request to the PAD server which is parsed and stored in the advertisement display tracker table F which is done as a part of the second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks as performed by the dynamic user request processing module of the performance optimization component of .

Table 12 depicts an exemplary tabular representation for an actual impression tracker table for tracking the number of times each advertisement asset is displayed for each user on each day. As shown in the Table 12 there are three columns namely a field s a corresponding description of each of the fields and a corresponding sample data for each of the fields.

As shown in the Table 12 the actual impression tracker table G keeps track of the number of times each advertisement asset is displayed for each user on each day. The actual impression tracker table G will be updated by the PAD server as and when the advertisement asset is displayed on the client device . The actual impression tracker table G is updated as part of the second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks as performed by the dynamic user request processing module of the performance optimization component of initiated by the PAD server . The actual impressions per advertisement asset is archived and updated in the CUMULATIVE ACTUAL IMPRESSIONS PERDAY PERUSER field in the asset table A by the first tier daily based wakeup tasks as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of initiated by the PAD server . Until the cumulative actual impression of each advertisement asset reaches a total targeted impression an asset status or the status of an asset will be maintained as active.

Table 13 shows an exemplary tabular representation for a billing table for example the billing table H of MYSQL DB server of for managing a list of advertisers. As shown in the Table 13 there are three columns namely a field s a corresponding description of each of the fields and a corresponding sample data for each of the fields.

The billing table H maintains a list of advertisers. The advertisers have to register with contact details through the web server of . As shown in the Table 13 the TOTALESTIMATEDADCOST and INITIALADCOST are calculated and updated by the billing server when the advertiser uploads the advertisement asset image. The PROGRESSIVEADCOST in the billing table H is updated daily and informed to the advertiser periodically based on a business model agreed and executed with the advertiser.

Table 14 shows an exemplary tabular representation for an average watch duration table for example the average watched duration table I of MYSQL DB server of for storing the average watch duration for each user for each genre for all predefined time slots for weekdays and weekends. As shown in the Table 14 there are three columns namely a field s a corresponding description of each of the fields and a corresponding sample data for each of the fields.

The average watch duration table I stores the average watch duration for each user for each genre for all predefined time slots for weekdays and weekends. The average watch duration table I is updated by a daily wakeup task performed by the DB server for example MYSQL DB server based on a previous or preceding three 3 months data from the statistical engine available for each user.

The method starts at step and proceeds to step . At step the method comprises facilitating determining whether a user group of a current primary user matches with at least one of targeted user groups. In order to determine whether the user group of the current primary user matches with at least one of the targeted user groups the method facilitates identification of the current primary user and the user group for the current primary user. The method implements a PAD server for example the PAD server of . The PAD server identifies the current primary user and the user group for the current primary user. Further in order to identify the current primary user and the user group for the current primary user the method facilitates scanning an input fingerprint of each user on each one of frequently used control keys of a remote control. In some embodiments a client device for example the client device of is adapted to implement fingerprint scanning using fingerprint scanners. The fingerprint scanning is only implemented on each one of the frequently used control keys of the remote control for example channel up down and select. In general there are two types of fingerprint scanners namely the optical scanner and capacitance scanner. The basic function of the two types of scanners is to get an image of the fingerprint of a user and find a match for the fingerprint of the user. Upon scanning the input fingerprint of each user on each one of the frequently used control keys of the remote control device the method facilitates comparing the input fingerprint of each user with a reference fingerprint of the current primary user. For example the fingerprint scanner in the client device matches the input fingerprint of each user with the reference fingerprint of the current primary user. Still further the method facilitates deriving user identifier information of the current primary user based on the comparison.

The PAD server implements a set of rules for example the RULES 1 8 derived from a survey database for example the survey database . The RULES 1 8 are applied on the data from a statistical engine for example the statistical engine of the client device of obtained from users based on the viewing patterns of the users to identify a user group.

The PAD server facilitates determining whether a user group of a current primary user using a client device matches with a targeted user group. For example if a user group of a current primary user using the client device of in the Table 2 and a targeted user group in the Table 3 matches a corresponding advertisement image selected from the advertisement sequence for the matched user group calculated for a given day is delivered to the client device . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method comprises facilitating selectively adding advertisement asset images corresponding to the matched user group into an advertisement bouquet. The method implements an advertisement selection module for example the advertisement selection module of the PAD server as shown in . The advertisement selection module selects an advertisement bouquet based on the user group to which the current primary user belongs to. The user group to which the current primary user belongs to is in turn based on target audience input provided by an advertiser and a user group to which a user currently watching a client device belongs to. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method comprises facilitating calculating a number of impressions of each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on a given day. The method implements a target impression calculation module for example the target impression calculation module of the PAD server as shown in . The target impression calculation module derives the number of impressions of an advertisement asset images to be displayed or to display per user per day namely NUMBER OF IMPRESSIONS DAY USER or NI in UI screens of the client device based on one or more parameters.

The method facilitates deriving the number of impressions of advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on the given day based on the total number of impressions of an advertisement asset image for a product specified by an advertiser under an advertisement campaign the duration of the advertisement campaign in days specified by the advertiser and the number of users in a targeted user group to which the advertisement asset image for the product is to be served. Specifically the target impression calculation module derives the NI based on a first parameter namely NI TOTAL second parameter namely CAMPAIGN DAYS and third parameter namely NU. The first parameter NI TOTAL refers to the total number of impressions of an advertisement image asset as specified by an advertiser as part of an advertisement campaign. The second parameter CAMPAIGN DAYS refers to the duration of the advertisement campaign in days as specified by an advertiser. The third parameter NU refers to the number of users in a targeted user group to which the advertisement image asset can be served or delivered.

The method facilitates calculation of the number of impressions of advertisement asset images to display for the current primary user for the given day for all active advertisement asset images as part of a first tier daily based wakeup tasks since the remaining duration in days of the advertisement campaign and the total number of remaining impressions for all active advertisement asset images change every day. For example the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat is performed during graveyard slot by a routine wakeup tasks performance module for example the routine wakeup tasks performance module of a performance optimization component for example the performance optimization component of .

The method facilitates updating the number of impressions for an advertisement asset image displayed to all users on a preceding day in an actual impression tracker table for example the actual impression tracker table G not explicitly shown and described hereat of a MYSQL DB server for example the MYSQL DB server of as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks for the given day.

For example the number of impressions displayed on a previous day for all users for a given selected advertisement asset image namely NI ACTUAL PREVDAY is updated in an actual impression tracker table for example the actual impression tracker table G not explicitly shown and described hereat in the MYSQL DB server of as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks not explicitly shown and described hereat as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component for a current day.

In order to the update the number of impressions for the advertisement asset image displayed to all the users on the preceding day in the actual impression tracker table G the method facilitates determining the achievement of the target number of impressions for the advertisement asset image for the current day. For example if the target number of impressions for the given selected advertisement asset image for the current day namely NI TODAY is not met. Stated differently if the total actual impressions displayed is less than NI TODAY for the given selected advertisement asset image then the backlog is added to the total remaining impressions namely NI REM.

Upon determining failure in the achievement of the target number of impressions for the advertisement asset image for the current day the method facilitates adding a backlog number of impressions to the total remaining impressions upon failure to achieve the target number of impressions for the advertisement asset image for the current day.

Upon adding the backlog number of impressions the method facilitates computing the total remaining impressions as a difference the total remaining impressions on a start day of the advertisement campaign and the number of impressions displayed on the preceding day for all users for an advertisement asset image. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method comprises facilitating calculating an advertisement sequence for each of the advertisement asset images to display to the current primary user on a given day.

The method implements an advertisement sequence calculation module for example the advertisement sequence calculation module of the PAD server as shown in . The advertisement sequence calculation module determines a sequence for display of a set of advertisement images from an advertisement bouquet for a user group for example the user group of the current primary user.

In some embodiments the sequence in which a given selected advertisement asset image is displayed for a specific user profile depends on one or more factors such as a priority of advertisement asset images revenue expected brand value and so forth a loyalty index of an advertiser and remaining advertisement impressions.

In some embodiments an advertisement sequence for each cycle of opportunity is concatenated and stored in the MYSQL DB server of for a user group till the targeted impressions and ranking indices of all advertisement assets in an advertisement bouquet for the user group for a given day becomes zero.

At step the method further comprises retaining or maintaining a position of an advertisement asset to be displayed next to be precise the last displayed advertisement asset position 1 in an advertisement sequence for each user. Upon display of each advertisement asset as per a stored advertisement sequence the position of next advertisement asset to be displayed for each user is updated in the MYSQL database of the MYSQL DB server .

At step the method further comprises facilitating calculating the loyalty index LI of an advertiser is calculated by an MSO based on one or more factors. For example the loyalty index LI of an advertiser is calculated based on 1 the advertiser is at least one of a first time or repeat customer of the MSO 2 number of times the advertiser has advertised with the MSO before if the advertiser is a repeat customer 3 advertisement revenue from repeat business from the advertiser with the MSO in last one year including the current one 4 timely payment behavior and history of the advertiser and 5 early termination or cancellation history or behavior of the advertiser in any and all advertisement campaigns before the minimum campaign duration. Each of the five factors for calculation of LI of an advertiser carries a weightage for example a numerical value of 1 and the sum is the LI which can vary from a minimum weightage for example a numerical value of 1 to a maximum weightage for example a numerical value of 5.

At step the method further comprises facilitating calculating the priority P of an advertiser by an MSO based on based on one or more factors. For example the priority P of an advertiser is calculated based on 1 campaign duration for instance duration above six 6 months is considered HIGH duration between three 3 to six 6 months i.e. 3 months

At step the method further comprises designing and implementing a rule in order to arrive at an advertisement sequence in an activity under the first tier daily based wakeup tasks as performed by the daily routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component of . For example if the total number of advertisement assets in the advertisement bouquet are greater than 3 and if the top ranked advertisement assets based on ranking indices or of the ranks of the top three 3 ranked assets is greater than and equal to 3 then the number of advertisement assets to be displayed in an advertisement sequence is equal to the top ranked assets of the advertisement bouquet rounded off to a higher integer. Else if the top ranked assets is less than 

In some scenarios if the ranking indices for two or more assets are same then an asset not displayed yet is picked up first. In some embodiments the minimum of the top three 3 ranked assets are set to be displayed in the decreasing order of ranking indices to reduce boredom and to increase engagement level of a user. The factor 3 for the top rule is configurable by an MSO as part of the operator settings.

Thus instead of displaying the top two 2 ranked assets with corresponding asset IDs the top three 3 ranked assets with corresponding asset IDs in descending order of ranking indices are displayed in a first 1 advertisement opportunity.

Upon placement of a first 1 set of advertisements in the first 1 advertisement opportunity the ranking indices are again calculated and ranks determined for a second 2 advertisement opportunity. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method comprises facilitating optimizing performance for delivery and display of the advertisement asset images. The method implements a performance optimization component for example the performance optimization component of . The performance optimization component in turn implements a routine wakeup tasks performance module for example the routine wakeup tasks performance module . The routine wakeup tasks performance module implements a first tier daily based wakeup tasks. The ins and outs in connection with the implementation of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module has been explained in conjunction with FIG S . A B. Further the performance optimization component in turn implements a dynamic user request processing module for example the dynamic user request processing module . The dynamic user request processing module implements a second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks. The ins and outs in connection with the implementation of the second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module has been explained in conjunction with . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method comprises displaying the advertisement asset images during at least one of organizing navigating gifting downloading and buffering at least one of AV and multimedia contents. The method proceeds to step and ends.

In some embodiments large amount of traffic is generated due to simultaneous and or multiple requests initiated from the client devices. The large amount of traffic may become a bottleneck that in turn may affect the fast delivery of advertisements. In some embodiments the advertisements have to be served in the minimum possible time so that users have a seamless viewing experience of both the advertisements and the watch TV application with no waiting period. For example in some scenarios large amount of traffic generated between the PAD sever and the MYSQL DB server of due to simultaneous and or multiple requests initiated from client devices for example one or more of the client device of becomes a bottleneck that in turn may affect the speed of response of the PAD sever and MYSQL DB server . Likewise in some scenarios the advertisements have to be served in the minimum possible time so that users have a seamless viewing experience of both the advertisements and the watch TV application of the host UI applications of with no waiting period.

In some embodiments performance optimization for facilitating fast delivery of the advertisements is disclosed. Specifically the performance optimization facilitates fast delivery of advertisement asset images from the servers during or responsive to multiple and or simultaneous requests from the client devices. More specifically the performance optimization comprises implementation of one or more timely and dynamic tasks for selection and delivery of advertisement asset images to increase speed of response from the servers thereby facilitating fast delivery of the advertisement asset images during multiple and or simultaneous requests from the client devices. For example the performance optimization involves implementation of the one or more timely and dynamic tasks for selection and delivery of advertisement asset images in a two tier manner namely a first tier daily based wakeup tasks and a second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks.

As shown in the server subsystem further comprises a performance optimization component . The performance optimization component comprises a routine wakeup tasks performance module and a dynamic user request processing module .

The performance optimization component facilitates fast delivery of advertisement images during multiple and or simultaneous requests from one or more of the client devices . In some scenarios involving multiple and simultaneous requests from the one or more client devices one or more optimizations are performed for fast delivery of the advertisement images through a CDN.

In some scenarios involving the problem of large amount of traffic between the PAD sever and the MYSQL DB server the performance optimization component facilitates implementation of one or more activities as part of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks when user activities are at least one of minimum and nil in a time configurable by a MSO LCO for example the graveyard slot for instance a time slot ranging approximately from a minimum of 2 AM to a maximum of 5 AM. Thus the implementation of one or more activities as part of a first tier daily based wakeup tasks ensures a minimum interaction with the MYSQL DB server as part of a second tier dynamic on the fly or real time tasks to speed up the response of the PAD sever and MYSQL DB server .

The term graveyard slot refers to a time period in which a television audience is very small compared to other times of the day and therefore broadcast programming is considered far less important. Graveyard slots are usually in the early morning hours of each day when most people are asleep. Because there is little likelihood of having a substantial viewing audience during this time period providing useful television programming during this time is usually considered unimportant some broadcast stations go off the air during these hours and some audience measurement systems do not bother collecting measurements for these periods. Some broadcasters may do engineering maintenance work at this time.

In some embodiments the PAD server MYSQL DB server and advertisement asset server are adapted to possess the following select specifications architecture multi core processor number of computing component 1 number of independent actual CPUs called cores 4 operating frequency 3.6 GHz and RAM specifications comprise size scalable RAM banks with RAM size 16 GB. By virtue of the selected specifications the PAD server MYSQLDB server and advertisement asset server facilitate rendering services in response to multiple and or simultaneous requests from the client devices .

In some embodiments the DB server is adapted to possess the following select specifications database name MYSQL type relational database management system RDBMS database system architecture centralized database model relational. By virtue of the selected specifications the centralized MYSQL database of the MYSQL DB server clustered as proxies in different servers facilitates improvement of the speed of response for storing and fetching data by other servers. Additionally in some scenarios the number of Java Database Connectivity JDBC connection pool size of the MYSQL DB server is increased for instance above 3000 to handle simultaneous requests from other servers. In alternate scenarios the JDBC connection pool size of the MYSQL DB server can be configured for instance to 3000 based on the estimated number of simultaneous requests from the client devices through the PAD server .

In some embodiments one or more server infrastructure specifications facilitating improvement in the response time during scale up to serve large number of the client devices are disclosed. In order to improve the response time during scale up to serve large number of the client devices the PAD server and advertisement asset server were replicated in proxy servers in different geographical locations. The replication of the PAD server and advertisement asset server in proxy servers in different geographical locations results in achievement of load balancing during large numbers of simultaneous requests from the client devices for example approximately millions of the client devices in a MSO broadcast network. By virtue of the disclosed infrastructure at least one of the PAD server and advertisement asset server nearest to the client device will respond to requests quickly.

In some embodiments the client devices directly interact with the advertisement asset server to fetch advertisement asset images based on the URL paths of the advertisement asset images. The advertisement asset server extracts the binary file or executable of an advertisement asset image and sends to the client devices using the Model View Controller MVC framework based software . In some embodiments a CDN network is used between the advertisement asset server and client devices to ensure that the advertisement asset images are delivered with minimum latency to the requesting client devices in accordance with targeted user groups of the users.

In some embodiments the first three 3 advertisement asset images from an advertisement sequence for each of the user groups URLs of all advertisement asset images and the URLs of the corresponding advertisement companions are downloaded and cached in the client devices during boot up. The downloading and caching of the first three 3 advertisement asset images corresponding to each unique user groups in a household or a subscriber the URLs of the corresponding advertisement asset images and advertisement companions thereof facilitates quick display of the advertisement asset images with no waiting period in the UI screens of the client device and reduction of the communication and traffic between the client devices and the PAD server and advertisement asset server .

In some embodiments a numbered list comprising one or more first tier daily based wakeup tasks is disclosed. For example 1 changing the state of an advertisement image asset for instance from at least one of an active to inactive and an inactive to active based on the start and end dates of a given campaign and a payment data of an advertiser 2 performing an integrity check of the MYSQL database of the DB server of and deleting erroneous data in the MYSQL database of the DB server prior to performance of implementation of queries and calculations on the MYSQL database of the DB server 3 calculating the number of advertisement impressions per day per user NI USR TODAY for all active advertisement assets to be delivered to all identified user groups 4 creating an advertisement sequence in which advertisement image assets have to be delivered for a given selected day for each of advertisement bouquet for all user groups 5 identifying user group to derive age gender marital status and employment status based on a consolidated data from the statistical engine of collected over a period of time and identifying which user group a user belongs to 6 performing transcoding of advertisement image assets based on a lookup table of image formats supported by the model of each client device for example an advertisement asset in a PNG format is transcoded to corresponding image asset in a JPEG format and stored for a specific type or model of the client device 7 synchronizing between at least one of the PAD server and advertisement asset server of and respective proxies located across different geographical locations 8 updating the cumulative actual impressions per asset displayed across all users in the asset table A of the DB server of and 9 updating the average watched duration per day per user per genre for all predefined viewing viewed timeslots based on the viewing history data of a user for at least a given selected and configurable time period for instance last three 3 months.

In some embodiments a numbered list comprising one or more second tier on the fly or real time tasks performed on a request from the client device is disclosed. For example 1 receiving one or more WHOAMI requests from different client devices for instance one or more client devices when the client devices boot up for the first time asynchronously parsing and storing in the WHOAMI table E in the MYSQL database of the of the DB server 2 upon receiving an advertisement display tracker request from the client device upon display of advertisement images 2a updating the actual impression tracker table G in the MYSQL database of the DB server with actual impressions and the corresponding timestamp for a user and 2b updating the advertisement display tracker table F with actual display duration the user feedback and the corresponding timestamp 3 extracting the binary file or executable of an advertisement asset image using the advertisement asset server of and sending the binary file to a requesting client device in the event that the client device does not have the advertisement asset image cached in its persistent storage memory and 4 extracting the binary file of an advertisement companion image asset of the an advertisement asset image by the advertisement asset server and delivering to the requesting client device .

In some embodiments the routine wakeup tasks performance module is implemented on a daily basis. In some embodiments the routine wakeup tasks performance module facilitates implementation of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks. The first tier daily based wakeup tasks are implemented proactively to keep advertisement image assets ready to deliver from the PAD sever and MYSQL DB server before active requests are received from the client devices .

Specifically the routine wakeup tasks performance module changes the status of an advertisement asset i.e. at least one of active and inactive based on one or more parameters for example on a start and an end date of an advertisement campaign and an advertiser s payment data. The routine wakeup tasks performance module performs integrity check of the MYSQL database in the MYSQL DB server . In some scenarios erroneous data in the MYSQL database are at least one of cleaned up and deleted during the integrity check of the of the MYSQL database before queries or calculations. The routine wakeup tasks performance module calculates the number of advertisement impressions per day per user namely NI USR TODAY for all active advertisement assets to be delivered to all identified user groups. The routine wakeup tasks performance module creates advertisement sequence in which advertisement assets have to be delivered for a given selected day for each advertisement bouquet for all user groups. The routine wakeup tasks performance module derives one or more attributes of users such as age gender marital and employment status based on the consolidated statistical engine data collected over a period of time to identify which user group a user belongs to. The routine wakeup tasks performance module performs transcoding of one or more image assets based on a look up table of image formats supported by each client device . For example a Portable Network Graphics PNG image file format transcoded to Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG image file format is stored for a specific type of the client device type . The routine wakeup tasks performance module performs synchronization between at least one of the PAD server advertisement asset server and corresponding proxies located across different geographical locations. The routine wakeup tasks performance module updates the cumulative actual impressions per asset displayed across users in an asset table A of the DB server for example MYSQL DB server. The routine wakeup tasks performance module updates the average watched duration per day per user per genre the average watched duration day user genre for all predefined viewing time slots based on the viewing history data of a user for a configurable period of time for example 3 months.

FIG S . A B is a flow diagram of a method for implementation of the first tier daily based wakeup tasks as performed by the routine wakeup tasks performance module of according to one or more embodiments. The method embodies the deployment and implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module of the performance optimization component .

The method starts at step and proceeds to step . At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for performing an integrity check on a database storing data provided by advertisers and data obtained from the client devices . The routine wakeup tasks performance module performs the integrity check of the MYSQL database in the MYSQL DB server to detect erroneous data. In some scenarios the erroneous data in the MYSQL database are at least one of cleaned up and deleted during the integrity check of the MYSQL database prior to implementation of queries and calculations on the MYSQL database of the DB server . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for changing the state of an advertisement image asset. For instance from at least one of an active to inactive and vice versa based on the start and end dates of an advertisement campaign and the payment data of an advertiser. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for updating the average watched duration for a given day of each user for each genre for all predefined viewed timeslots based on the viewing history data of a user for at least a given selected and configurable time period for example past 3 months. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for deriving a plurality of attributes for each user based on a consolidated data collected over a period of time for identification of a user group of a user. For example the routine wakeup tasks performance module derives an age a gender a marital status an income and an employment status of a user based on a consolidated data from the statistical engine collected over a period of time and identifies which user group the user belongs to. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for updating the cumulative actual impressions for each advertisement image asset displayed across users in an asset table maintaining details related to each advertisement asset image. For example the routine wakeup tasks performance module updates the cumulative actual impressions for each advertisement image asset displayed across users in the asset table A of the MYSQL DB server . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for calculating the number of advertisement impressions for a given day for each user for all active advertisement asset images to be delivered to all identified user groups. For example the routine wakeup tasks performance module calculates the number of advertisement impressions per user per day namely NI for all active advertisement asset images to be delivered to all identified user groups. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for creating an advertisement sequence for delivery of the advertisement image assets for the given day for each advertisement bouquet for all the identified user groups. The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for transcoding the advertisement image assets based on a lookup table of image formats supported by each of the client devices for example each of the client devices . For example an advertisement asset in a PNG format is transcoded to corresponding image asset in a JPEG format and stored for a specific type of the client device . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the routine wakeup tasks performance module for synchronizing between at least one of a personalized advertisement PAD server and an advertisement asset server and respective proxies located across different geographical locations. For example the routine wakeup tasks performance module synchronizes between the PAD server and advertisement asset server and respective proxies located across different geographical locations. The method proceeds to step and ends.

The method starts at step and proceeds to step . At step the method facilitates implementation of the dynamic user request processing module for receiving requests from client devices during first time asynchronous booting up of the client devices for parsing and storing the requests. For example the dynamic user request processing module parses and stores WHOAMI XML requests received from the different client devices for instance the one or more client devices in the WHOAMI table E of the MYSQL database server . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the dynamic user request processing module for determining whether or not the persistent storage of a client device has in cache an advertisement asset image and extracting using an advertisement server the binary or executable file of the advertisement image to send to a requesting client device. For example the advertisement asset server extracts the binary file of the advertisement asset image and sends to the requesting client device in the event that the client device does not have that the advertisement asset image cached in the persistent storage of the client device . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates extracting using an advertisement asset server the binary file of a corresponding advertisement companion of the advertisement asset image for sending to requesting client devices. For example the advertisement asset server extracts the binary file of the corresponding advertisement companion of the advertisement asset image for sending to the requesting client devices . The method proceeds to step .

At step the method facilitates implementation of the dynamic user request processing module for updating an actual impression tracker with actual displayed impressions and the corresponding timestamp for a user in addition to updating an advertisement display tracker table with actual display duration user feedback and corresponding timestamp upon receipt of a request for an advertisement display tracker from a client device subsequent to display of advertisement image assets. For example the dynamic user request processing module updates the actual impression tracker table G of the MYSQL database in the MYSQL DB server with actual display duration user feedback and corresponding timestamp upon receipt of a request for the advertisement display tracker ADT table F from the client device of the MYSQL database in the MYSQL DB server subsequent to display of advertisement image assets. The method proceeds to step and ends.

In some embodiments managing display of personalized advertisements PADs in a UI of an onscreen IPG comprises displaying personalized advertisements during organizing and navigating at least one of AV and multimedia contents. Specifically the method and system for managing display of personalized advertisements PADs facilitate displaying personalized advertisement folder icons during at least one of organizing and navigating at least one of recorded and Linear TV AV and or multimedia contents in a UI of at least one of a favorite channel list and recorded content organizer.

In some embodiments users can organize at least one of recorded and Linear TV AV and or multimedia contents into personal folders. The personal folders are labeled with identifiers identifying the users such as the names of the users for ease of use and navigation.

In some embodiments at least one of recorded and purchased AV and or multimedia contents in one or more client devices for example one or more of the client device of can be organized based on users who at least one of recorded and purchased the AV and or multimedia contents. Likewise at least one of Linear AV and or multimedia contents can be organized into different personal favorite channels using a personalized or favorite channel list for example the favorite channel list of the host UI applications of .

For example in personalized advertisements for a specific user such as DAD are shown in a UI of a favorite channel list for example the favorite channel list of the host UI applications comprising the application layer of .

For example in personalized advertisements for a specific user such as DAD are shown in a UI of a recorded content organizer for example the recorded content organizer of the host UI applications comprising the application layer of .

As shown in each user in a household may have different set of favorite channels which can be organized into each folder labeled with the name of each user. For example in a household including a 47 year old father 40 year old mother 15 year old son and 69 year old grandmother all the favorite channels of the father will be organized under a folder labeled DAD with an advertisement image as the folder icon as shown in . The text label below each folder icon carries the name of each user in the household to easily navigate between the different folders. Users can at least one of edit and change or rename the text label of each folder icon using for example at least one of a software or on screen virtual and standard keyboards. The folder label is unique to each user and is paired with the unique user ID for each user. The user ID information is used to select and display personalized advertisement images in the folder icons as image slide show with display duration for example 3 seconds for each of the selected advertisement image cached in the client device .

In some embodiments the total number of folders will be equal to the total number of users in the household. For example as shown in four folder icons with their respective labels are shown in the UI of the recorded content and also in the UI of the favorite list of the host UI applications of . More the number of users more will be the number of folder icons and the UI navigation pages.

As shown in each of the folders for example one or more of the folders of are not merely plain folder icons but will have a personalized advertisement image asset displayed inside. For example as shown in in the event that a specific user such as MOM who is unregistered and thus belongs to an unidentified user group the folder icon of a corresponding folder of for the specific user will remain blank and thus not displayed with any personalized advertisement asset image.

An advertisement asset image displayed inside the folder icon of the folder is selected based on a user group to which a user belongs to. For example as shown in the folder icon for a specific user such as the folder icon labeled DAD has an advertisement asset for a real estate agency for instance PRUDENTIAL CALIFORNIA REALTY . Likewise the folder icons labeled BROTHER and GRAND MOTHER will have advertisement asset images relevant or corresponding to the user profiles. For example the user DAD belongs to a user group C4EMH and thus an advertisement asset image REAL ESTATE AGENCY is selected based on the asset table A of the MYSQL DB server of represented by the Table 3 therefor. In some scenarios for example as shown in in the event that a specific user such as MOM who is unregistered and thus belongs to an unidentified user group the folder icon of a corresponding folder of for the specific user will remain blank and thus unpopulated with any personalized advertisement image asset.

For example in some scenarios based on the usage pattern of users it is found that the users will stay in the UI of the host UI applications of between a minimum of approximately 3 seconds to a maximum of approximately 30 seconds only. So the duration of display of each advertisement image in a folder icon is configured for example for 3 seconds only to maximize the number of impressions for an advertiser. Upon completion of the duration of display of each advertisement image in the folder icon for example 3 seconds the next pre decided advertisement folder image asset based on an advertisement sequence stored in a client device for example the client device of is displayed as an image slide show within the folder icon. Additionally a company brand logo can be added as a watermark in the image for brand promotion.

In the event that a user stays in the same page of the UI of the recorded content organizer or favorite list organizer for example for 12 seconds 4 different personalized advertisement asset images will be shown one after the other as per the advertisement sequence downloaded from a PAD server for example the PAD server of and stored in the client device at the boot up.

In some scenarios a user selects a folder icon to list the AV contents organized under a personalized folder.

As shown in in use the selection of the UI of the favorite channel list of the host UI applications of lists the favorite channels chosen by the user for DAD while the selection of the UI of the recorded content organizer of the host UI applications of lists all the AV contents recorded by the user labeled DAD as shown in . For both the UIs of the favorite channel list and recorded content organizer along with the AV content list and corresponding video the advertisement image for DAD is also shown for 3 seconds configurable in the bottom right corner just below a video window of . The relevant personalized advertisement images selected based on the user profile are displayed one after the other in accord with an advertisement sequence stored in the client device received from the PAD server during boot up. For example if DAD records events or has 30 favorite channels then the contents will be organized in five navigation pages with each page occupying around 6 events channels.

Each UI screen corresponding to one or more host UI applications for example the favorite channel list recorded content organizer has a unique UI identification or UI ID number defined for a specific application UI version of the software stack of the client device as shown in .

Each UI ID paired with the user labels displayed in the UI screens of the favorite channel list and recorded event organizer are used to extract the corresponding user groups. Based on the user group the corresponding advertisement sequence is read from the cached memory of the client device and the first image asset from the advertisement sequence is displayed on the UI screen for each user if users in the household belong to different user groups. In the event that multiple users of the same user group are displayed in the current UI screen then the first advertisement image from the advertisement sequence for the given user group is displayed in one folder icon and the next image from the advertisement sequence of the same user group is displayed for the subsequent folder icon and so on until all users of the given user group are completed in the current UI screen.

In some embodiments the system facilitates display of personalized advertisements during presentation or offer of at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents as a virtual gift from one user to another. In some embodiments the client subsystem comprises one or more client devices adapted to display personalized advertisements during presentation or offer of at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents as a virtual gift from one user to another. For example if a first user or a sending user or sender likes at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents for instance a movie then the first user may like to present the movie as a virtual gift or good to a second user or receiving user or recipient for instance a friend of the first user through or using the network subsystem .

As used herein the term gift wrapper advertisements refers to advertisement images displayed upon selection access and retrieval of a wrapped gift box icon representing a gift box enfolded with a gift wrapper for a virtual gift or good .

As shown in a watch TV application for example the watch TV application of renders or displays in or through a watch TV OSD a wrapped gift box icon representing a gift box enfolded with a gift wrapper for a virtual gift or good for instance a movie. Further the gift wrapper also represented by the gift box icon is a gift wrapper advertisement for instance a personalized advertisement matching with the user group of the second user.

As shown in upon receiving the virtual gift or good of for instance a movie a user selects access and retrieves for example by double clicking or selecting and opening the wrapped gift box icon in the watch TV OSD of displayed in the watch TV application of .

As shown in corresponding to the continuous unfolding or unwrapping of the gift wrapper advertisement a personalized advertisement image transpires partially to fully on the screen on top or in the foreground of video displayed in watch TV application of .

In some embodiments the user receiving the gift for instance a movie may choose to at least one of retrieving more information about an advertised product and continue downloading the gifted movie from at least one of an external storage and video server. In some embodiments in the event that the receiving user chooses to selecting accessing and retrieving more information about the advertised product an advertisement companion image that gives more details about the advertised product appears. On exit from the advertisement companion the user can watch the gifted movie by at least one of streaming and downloading the gifted movie.

In some embodiments in use a first user wishes to present a virtual gift for instance a movie or any other AV content to a second user connected to a common network for instance the network subsystem . The first user selects the name of the second user and clicks a gift button not shown here explicitly . Upon receiving the virtual gift by the first user a client device for instance the client device of the second user sends a request for a gift wrapper advertisement to the PAD server of . An advertisement asset image with the highest rank based on an advertisement sequence for the user group to which the second user belongs to is selected accessed and retrieved by the advertisement selection module ASM of the PAD server as the gift wrapper advertisement. The PAD server sends the URL path of the gift wrapper advertisement on a wrapped gift box icon for instance the wrapped gift box icon representing a gift box enfolded with a gift wrapper for a virtual gift or good of along with the URL path of the virtual gift or good for instance a gifted movie to the client device of the second user.

The PAD rendering module residing in the watch TV application of of the client device of the recipient downloads an advertisement image for the gift wrapper advertisement from the advertisement asset server . The PAD rendering module of the client device of the recipient downscales the advertisement image for the gift wrapper advertisement to a stamp size as shown in . In some embodiments the recipient selects the wrapped gift box icon representing a gift box enfolded with a gift wrapper for a virtual gift or good of to access and retrieve the gift . The recipient double clicks or selects and opens the gift . As shown in an animation sequence provided by the PAD rendering module depicts the unfolding or unwrapping of the gift wrapper advertisement image from the stamp size to full size. The animation sequence of the gift wrapper advertisement image is dependent on the graphics and display capability of the client device of the recipient. An advertisement companion asset image is dynamically downloaded from the advertisement asset server URL in the event that the recipient requests for more information about the virtual gift wrapper advertisement image.

In some embodiments the system facilitates display of personalized advertisements during at least one of buffering and downloading of at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents through network . In some embodiments the client subsystem comprises one or more client devices adapted to display personalized advertisements during at least one of buffering and downloading of at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents.

In some embodiments in use during at least one of the buffering and downloading period at least one of waiting loading icon and progress bar appears in a watch TV OSD of the watch TV application of when at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents stored in a cloud or an external storage is streamed to a client device for example the client device of . The waiting period can be pre calculated in the client device based on the size of the at least one of recorded purchased AV and multimedia contents being buffered and the available network bandwidth. During the entire waiting period different advertisements can be displayed in the at least one of waiting loading icon and progress bar based on the user group of a user.

An advertisement image asset is retrieved and resized and displayed based on the type and shape of at least one of waiting loading icon and progress bar displayed in the watch TV OSD of the watch TV application of of the client device . For example in some scenarios the progress bar may be a linear progress bar as shown in while in other scenarios the progress bar may be a circular progress bar as shown in . Both show how different advertisement images are placed with respect to the linear and circular progress bars till the remaining waiting period for at least one of buffering and downloading AV content becomes zero.

In some embodiments during at least one of the buffering and downloading period if a user opts to know more about a product then user can select an advertisement for the product to access the advertisement companion asset image for the advertisement for more details. While the user accesses the advertisement companion asset image for the advertisement for more details the downloading continues in the background without any interruption and the progress status of the downloading in terms of percentage completion is displayed on the advertisement companion asset image. In the event that the user exits out of the advertisement companion asset image the user can watch the downloaded AV content.

The embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as methods system apparatus electronic devices and or computer program products. Accordingly the embodiments of the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit or module . Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer usable or computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer usable or computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions that implement the function specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium include the following hard disks optical storage devices a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet magnetic storage devices an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk or C and the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language and or any other lower level assembler languages. It will be further appreciated that the functionality of any or all of the program modules may also be implemented using discrete hardware components one or more Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs or programmed Digital Signal Processors or microcontrollers.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. All examples described herein are presented in a non limiting manner. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure. Realizations in accordance with embodiments have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

