---

title: System and method for multi resolution and multi temporal image search
abstract: A system for modular image mining and search, comprising a plurality of image capture devices, a search engine, an indexing engine, a database, and user interface software. A plurality of image capture devices capture images and store them to a database. The indexing engine indexes images to create image data for each image with associated metadata and stores the information to the database. The interface software is used to request search queries via a search engine. The search engine accesses the image data to find images or parts of images that satisfy the search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09529824&OS=09529824&RS=09529824
owner: DigitalGlobe, Inc.
number: 09529824
owner_city: Longmont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 910 973 titled MODULAR IMAGE MINING AND SEARCH filed on Jun. 5 2013 the entire specification of which is incorporated hereby by reference.

The invention relates to the field of data analysis and more particularly to the field of image mining and searching.

In the field of data analysis search engines are commonly utilized in a variety of fields and for a variety of use cases such as text based searching of documents keyword based searching for information on a network such as the Internet or fuzzy searching using algorithms to search over non text or mixed media data such as using a single example in the current art Google reverse image search that enable users to select an image and search the Internet or other data for any similar images. However there are limitations present that prevent full realization of the utility of search engines particularly in the area of image search and analysis.

There exist solutions that allow for basic search of an image base such as Google reverse image search as previously mentioned. Such search engines typically operate by identifying similarities between images or by identifying image content such as with tags or other identifiers for use in keyword or other text based searches. There is currently no provision for searching with greater granularity as may be common in text based searches for example a user might search within a selection of document text or take a count of occurrences of a specific keyword or phrase but such an operation is not currently possible when dealing with image data. Current image search paradigms are focused on basic image comparison and are limited in their scope. Text based image search currently only accommodates tag text and depends on humans to tag images which will not typically be practical for large image data sets such as are obtained from satellites.

Moreover images often contain implicitly hierarchical information. For example some image features may be relevant or meaningful at a pixel level of granularity such as land cover classification or texture roughness others may be relevant at a regional i.e. region within an image level of granularity such as shapes arrangements of objects and object identification and classification and yet others may only be relevant or meaningful at a scene whole image or collection of images level such as percentage of land cover or use object counts in an area or high level classification of areas such as deserts cities lakes and the like. Tag based text search does not capture this richness of information and many such hierarchical image features would not normally be tagged by humans in any case.

Common image search approaches in the art also fail to allow for scalable operation in both the scope and the method of search as well as system architecture. Existing solutions are limited to simple image comparison operations find images like this one or basic keyword data find images related to this topic preventing detailed or more precise identification or searching of image information. They further fail to incorporate a modular approach to search logic such as allowing for a variety of search logic modules that may be added removed or altered without interrupting operation or requiring manipulation of other elements of a search engine or system.

What is needed is an image search and mining system that allows for scalable operation. Preferably such a system should be modular to allow incremental development without interfering with ongoing operations and should allow users to search with variable granularity over a large base of image data keyword search queries.

Accordingly the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for image data mining and searching such mined image data. The system comprises a plurality of image capture devices each adapted to handle interactions of one or more media types an indexing engine software module for indexing and categorization of images an image information database stores image data and indices from the indexing engine module an interface software module for searching images and elements and a search engine software module to perform searches. According to the embodiment the indexing engine indexes and categorizes image data captured by a plurality of image capture devices and stores image data and indices to a database. The search engine receives search requests from users via the interface software module for searching elements and features within an image using indices and image data of captured images.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice a method for searching mined image data the method comprising the steps of indexing image data using an index engine based on images captured from a plurality of image capture devices and stores image data and indices in a database. According to the embodiment searching image data and image indices is performed using a search engine software module based on input by a user through an interface software module.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice a system for searching over multiple resolutions on a multi temporal grid of images the system comprises a plurality of resolutions of an image from a plurality of images captured by a plurality of image capture devices where a plurality of resolutions are decomposed from an image captured by a plurality of image capture devices and a plurality of images are captured by a plurality of image capture devices over a period of time. According to the embodiment the search engine selects an appropriate image resolution from a set of resolutions to conduct a search of features and elements within the images by using indices and image data from the database of images by conducting a search of images or changes within a scene over a period of time in a set of images captured by a plurality of image capture devices.

One or more different inventions may be described in the present application. Further for one or more of the inventions described herein numerous alternative embodiments may be described it should be understood that these are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not intended to be limiting in any sense. One or more of the inventions may be widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. In general embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice one or more of the inventions and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Accordingly those skilled in the art will recognize that one or more of the inventions may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Particular features of one or more of the inventions may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of one or more of the inventions. It should be understood however that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more of the inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries logical or physical.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. To the contrary a variety of optional components may be described to illustrate a wide variety of possible embodiments of one or more of the inventions and in order to more fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may generally be configured to work in alternate orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described in this patent application does not in and of itself indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Also steps are generally described once per embodiment but this does not mean they must occur once or that they may only occur once each time a process method or algorithm is carried out or executed. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or some occurrences or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence.

When a single device or article is described it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus other embodiments of one or more of the inventions need not include the device itself.

Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be noted that particular embodiments include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which for example functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein a feature is an individual measurable heuristic property of a phenomenon being observed.

As used herein a pixel level feature is a feature at a base level of classification. For example textural properties a land cover classification etc.

As used herein a region level feature is a feature at a higher level of classification. For example observations that may have shape properties such as area perimeter compactness elongation eccentricity etc. spatial relationships such as arrangement distance etc. object classifications for example a school paring lot swimming pool plane shopping mall etc. and the like.

As used herein a scene level feature is a feature that may aggregate statistics on lower level features such as percentage land cover for example 25 deciduous forest 10 water etc. aggregate object counts for example 10 schools 35 parking lots etc. other descriptive classifications for example desert city rainforest etc. 

As used herein a graphics processing unit GPU is a specialized electronic circuit known in the art that is designed to rapidly manipulate and alter memory to accelerate the creation of images in a frame buffer intended for output to a display or for other computational purposes.

As used herein a Compute Unified Device Architecture CUDA is a parallel computing platform and programming model known in the art created by NVIDIA and implemented by the graphics processing units GPUs that they produce that gives developers access to a virtual instruction set and memory of the parallel computational elements in CUDA GPUs.

As used herein an Interactive Data Language IDL is a programming language known in the art used for data analysis.

As used herein a shard is a database partitioning technique known in the art where each individual partition is referred to as a shard or database shard.

Generally the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented on hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example they may be implemented in an operating system kernel in a separate user process in a library package bound into network applications on a specially constructed machine on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on a network interface card.

Software hardware hybrid implementations of at least some of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on a programmable network resident machine which should be understood to include intermittently connected network aware machines selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in memory. Such network devices may have multiple network interfaces that may be configured or designed to utilize different types of network communication protocols. A general architecture for some of these machines may be disclosed herein in order to illustrate one or more exemplary means by which a given unit of functionality may be implemented. According to specific embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers associated with one or more networks such as for example an end user computer system a client computer a network server or other server system a mobile computing device e.g. tablet computing device mobile phone smartphone laptop and the like a consumer electronic device a music player or any other suitable electronic device router switch or the like or any combination thereof. In at least some embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in one or more virtualized computing environments e.g. network computing clouds virtual machines hosted on one or more physical computing machines or the like .

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary computing device suitable for implementing at least a portion of the features or functionalities disclosed herein. Computing device may be for example any one of the computing machines listed in the previous paragraph or indeed any other electronic device capable of executing software or hardware based instructions according to one or more programs stored in memory. Computing device may be adapted to communicate with a plurality of other computing devices such as clients or servers over communications networks such as a wide area network a metropolitan area network a local area network a wireless network the Internet or any other network using known protocols for such communication whether wireless or wired.

In one embodiment computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU one or more interfaces and one or more busses such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . When acting under the control of appropriate software or firmware CPU may be responsible for implementing specific functions associated with the functions of a specifically configured computing device or machine. For example in at least one embodiment a computing device may be configured or designed to function as a server system utilizing CPU local memory and or remote memory and interface s . In at least one embodiment CPU may be caused to perform one or more of the different types of functions and or operations under the control of software modules or components which for example may include an operating system and any appropriate applications software drivers and the like.

CPU may include one or more processors such as for example a processor from one of the Intel ARM Qualcomm and AMD families of microprocessors. In some embodiments processors may include specially designed hardware such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and so forth for controlling operations of computing device . In a specific embodiment a local memory such as non volatile random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM including for example one or more levels of cached memory may also form part of CPU . However there are many different ways in which memory may be coupled to system . Memory may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example caching and or storing data programming instructions and the like.

As used herein the term processor is not limited merely to those integrated circuits referred to in the art as a processor a mobile processor or a microprocessor but broadly refers to a microcontroller a microcomputer a programmable logic controller an application specific integrated circuit and any other programmable circuit.

In one embodiment interfaces are provided as network interface cards NICs . Generally NICs control the sending and receiving of data packets over a computer network other types of interfaces may for example support other peripherals used with computing device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces graphics interfaces and the like. In addition various types of interfaces may be provided such as for example universal serial bus USB Serial Ethernet Firewire PCI parallel radio frequency RF Bluetooth near field communications e.g. using near field magnetics 802.11 WiFi frame relay TCP IP ISDN fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces high speed serial interface HSSI interfaces Point of Sale POS interfaces fiber data distributed interfaces FDDIs and the like. Generally such interfaces may include ports appropriate for communication with appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor and in some in stances volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM .

Although the system shown in illustrates one specific architecture for a computing device for implementing one or more of the inventions described herein it is by no means the only device architecture on which at least a portion of the features and techniques described herein may be implemented. For example architectures having one or any number of processors may be used and such processors may be present in a single device or distributed among any number of devices. In one embodiment a single processor handles communications as well as routing computations while in other embodiments a separate dedicated communications processor may be provided. In various embodiments different types of features or functionalities may be implemented in a system according to the invention that includes a client device such as a tablet device or smartphone running client software and server systems such as a server system described in more detail below .

Regardless of network device configuration the system of the present invention may employ one or more memories or memory modules such as for example remote memory block and local memory configured to store data program instructions for the general purpose network operations or other information relating to the functionality of the embodiments described herein or any combinations of the above . Program instructions may control execution of or comprise an operating system and or one or more applications for example. Memory or memories may also be configured to store data structures configuration data encryption data historical system operations information or any other specific or generic non program information described herein.

Because such information and program instructions may be employed to implement one or more systems or methods described herein at least some network device embodiments may include nontransitory machine readable storage media which for example may be configured or designed to store program instructions state information and the like for performing various operations described herein. Examples of such nontransitory machine readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM flash memory solid state drives memristor memory random access memory RAM and the like. Examples of program instructions include both object code such as may be produced by a compiler machine code such as may be produced by an assembler or a linker byte code such as may be generated by for example a Java compiler and may be executed using a Java virtual machine or equivalent or files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter for example scripts written in Python Perl Ruby Groovy or any other scripting language .

In some embodiments systems according to the present invention may be implemented on a standalone computing system. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a typical exemplary architecture of one or more embodiments or components thereof on a standalone computing system. Computing device includes processors that may run software that carry out one or more functions or applications of embodiments of the invention such as for example a client application . Processors may carry out computing instructions under control of an operating system such as for example a version of Microsoft s Windows operating system Apple s Mac OS X or iOS operating systems some variety of the Linux operating system Google s Android operating system or the like. In many cases one or more shared services may be operable in system and may be useful for providing common services to client applications . Services may for example be Windows services user space common services in a Linux environment or any other type of common service architecture used with operating system . Input devices may be of any type suitable for receiving user input including for example a keyboard touchscreen microphone for example for voice input mouse touchpad trackball or any combination thereof. Output devices may be of any type suitable for providing output to one or more users whether remote or local to system and may include for example one or more screens for visual output speakers printers or any combination thereof. Memory may be random access memory having any structure and architecture known in the art for use by processors for example to run software. Storage devices may be any magnetic optical mechanical memristor or electrical storage device for storage of data in digital form. Examples of storage devices include flash memory magnetic hard drive CD ROM and or the like.

In some embodiments systems of the present invention may be implemented on a distributed computing network such as one having any number of clients and or servers. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary architecture for implementing at least a portion of a system according to an embodiment of the invention on a distributed computing network. According to the embodiment any number of clients may be provided. Each client may run software for implementing client side portions of the present invention clients may comprise a system such as that illustrated in . In addition any number of servers may be provided for handling requests received from one or more clients . Clients and servers may communicate with one another via one or more electronic networks which may be in various embodiments any of the Internet a wide area network a mobile telephony network a wireless network such as WiFi Wimax and so forth or a local area network or indeed any network topology known in the art the invention does not prefer any one network topology over any other . Networks may be implemented using any known network protocols including for example wired and or wireless protocols.

In addition in some embodiments servers may call external services when needed to obtain additional information or to refer to additional data concerning a particular call. Communications with external services may take place for example via one or more networks . In various embodiments external services may comprise web enabled services or functionality related to or installed on the hardware device itself. For example in an embodiment where client applications are implemented on a smartphone or other electronic device client applications may obtain information stored in a server system in the cloud or on an external service deployed on one or more of a particular enterprise s or user s premises.

In some embodiments of the invention clients or servers or both may make use of one or more specialized services or appliances that may be deployed locally or remotely across one or more networks . For example one or more databases may be used or referred to by one or more embodiments of the invention. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that databases may be arranged in a wide variety of architectures and using a wide variety of data access and manipulation means. For example in various embodiments one or more databases may comprise a relational database system using a structured query language SQL while others may comprise an alternative data storage technology such as those referred to in the art as NoSQL for example Hadoop Cassandra Google BigTable and so forth . In some embodiments variant database architectures such as column oriented databases in memory databases clustered databases distributed databases or even flat file data repositories may be used according to the invention. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that any combination of known or future database technologies may be used as appropriate unless a specific database technology or a specific arrangement of components is specified for a particular embodiment herein. Moreover it should be appreciated that the term database as used herein may refer to a physical database machine a cluster of machines acting as a single database system or a logical database within an overall database management system. Unless a specific meaning is specified for a given use of the term database it should be construed to mean any of these senses of the word all of which are understood as a plain meaning of the term database by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Similarly most embodiments of the invention may make use of one or more security systems and configuration systems . Security and configuration management are common information technology IT and web functions and some amount of each are generally associated with any IT or web systems. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that any configuration or security subsystems known in the art now or in the future may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention without limitation unless a specific security or configuration system or approach is specifically required by the description of any specific embodiment.

In various embodiments functionality for implementing systems or methods of the present invention may be distributed among any number of client and or server components. For example various software modules may be implemented for performing various functions in connection with the present invention and such modules may be variously implemented to run on server and or client components.

As illustrated image data may be made available to an indexing engine and may be stored in a database or similar data storage. Image data may be of variable nature such as simple stored images or more detailed information or metadata stored along with images such as image tags or other identifying data such as as is common in the art data pertaining to when where or how an image was captured such as might be recorded by a camera when taking a snapshot . Furthermore image data need not be an existing cache of stored data and could be a quantity of live data being accessed by system for operation such as capturing images via any appropriate image capture devices connected to system such as cameras image capture capable electronic devices such as tablet computing devices or smartphones or aerial or satellite imaging systems in order that captured images may be indexed directly without first being stored. In some embodiments image data may be stored separately from indices .

It should be appreciated that the use of a database is exemplary and that image storage may be accomplished via a variety of means common in the art such as a single physical storage medium such as magnetic optical solid state or other storage devices common in the art or a distributed storage system such as a distributed file storage system as may be utilized in computing clusters and further that such storage may be local i.e. stored and operating alongside other components of system such as a server s hard disk drive or a connected storage system or remote such as a remotely connected and accessible storage device or a cloud based storage service and that connection may be accomplished via either physical or remote means as described previously. In this manner it should be appreciated that image storage is highly variable according to the invention further enabling a flexible and scalable design that may be readily adapted to a variety of storage means as may be appropriate without necessitating the manipulation of existing data.

As further illustrated indexing engine may operate upon image data such as for such purposes as identifying image details or refining any existing metadata as described above. Such indexing may involve the incorporation of known or stored index data to iterate over a quantity of image data such as filtering or organizing images according to preset or configurable criteria or may involve active processing such as scanning an image to identify features.

Such indexing or processing might be variable such as indexing according to different scale or granularity with varying quality or quantity of index data produced. For example in a pixel level indexing operation individual pixels within an image may be scanned and identified such as to determine textural information such as may be appropriate in determining whether a photographed object is made of metal or wood or for determining terrain in a satellite image of an area or for determining segmentation of image elements such as identifying the separation of individual objects like separating buildings in a photograph of a skyline or the edge of a forest in a satellite image . In a further region level indexing operation an image may be processed for mid level granular information optionally using pixel level information from a previous indexing operation. For example using previously indexed segmentation information a region level indexing operation might identify the nature of objects or regions identified previously continuing from the previous example identifying that one region of a satellite image is a forest while another is an urban sprawl or identifying specific buildings in a city . In a further scene level indexing operation an image may be processed for the highest level of granular information such as again continuing previous examples analyzing what percentage of a satellite image is forested or counting the number of buildings in a skyline image. It should be appreciated that in this manner image indexing engine may process many types of image data in a variety of ways to generate index information which may then be stored such as in a database for further use or refinement. Preferably indexing will support hierarchical relationships so that a complex text based hierarchy of features present in an image or a corpus of images can be searched directly. It should be further appreciated that indexing operations described above are exemplary in nature and execution and that operations may be performed independently of one another with no prior index data required. In this manner an initial indexing operation may be performed on image data and subsequently image data may be indexed further optionally incorporating previous indices such as to refine the resultant output of a present or prior operation. It should be appreciated that in this manner a wide variety of operations may be performed according to the invention and further that the highly variable nature of indexing engine allows further flexibility of system by enabling operation with a variety of image data and for a variety of purposes and utilizing a variety of index operations.

As further illustrated resultant indices from an indexing operation may be stored for further use or reference such as in a database or other data storage medium as described previously. Indices may then be further refined by subsequent indexing operations by indexing engine such as to incorporate pixel level indices for a more relevant region level indexing operation as described above and as described below with reference to and may also be made accessible to search engine such as to enable querying of index data . In this manner indexing engine may process image data and then search engine may utilize resulting indices to perform a more relevant or precise search operation.

Search engine may be utilized as illustrated such as to query index data or other image data and may utilize any of a variety of novel or existing search algorithms or methods. Search operations may be variable in nature and it should be appreciated that due to the highly flexible nature of both image data and indexing operations previously described search engine may be very broad in scope of operation. In this manner it should be appreciated that existing search engines may be utilized according to the invention enabling convenient integration of system with existing technologies. In this manner existing search functionalities may be utilized to process image data or indices and the utility of system is not dependent upon novel search algorithms though it may be improved or expanded by them.

An interface may be utilized to provide an accessible means for users to interact with the various components of system such as to submit queries to search engine or to configure or execute operation of indexing engine such as for example interacting with an indexing operation during execution such as for refining manually input indexing configuration or viewing an operation s progress or even to directly view stored data such as contents of image base or index data . Such an interface may be a fully featured software user interface such as is common in software applications a web enabled interface such as is commonly utilized for interaction with Internet search engines a dedicated physical device running software components tailored for function with other components of system or may be a lower level software application programming interface API such as to enable the creation or alteration of software elements to interface with system such as may be desirable for a corporate implementation of system where an IT department may desire to create a custom interface for internal use. In this manner it should be appreciated that existing software interfaces may be utilized by plugging into a software API facilitating a smooth transition for users and a more flexible operation overall. For example according to the arrangement illustrated an existing search engine and corresponding interface such as Google Search or Bing may be utilized according to the invention with expanded functionality facilitated by operation of an indexing engine and any desirable configuration or modification performed at a program code level such that from the perspective of an end user it may appear that they are using a familiar and unaltered product but the benefits of system may be realized immediately such as improved or increased functionality or improved search results .

In this manner it should be appreciated that individual components of system may vary in nature and may utilize existing technologies and that overall function of system is highly flexible in nature and scalable with regards to any particular implementation. Such a modular nature is useful in that it facilitates a variety of functions not possible in a rigid fixed configuration operational model. For example it becomes possible to utilize incremental updates or alterations to system such as for example construction of new indexing engine functionality which may then be incorporated seamlessly without alteration to any other component or implementation of additional components without interfering with existing ones. Additionally it becomes possible to use distributed operation such as individual components operating independently of one another or by independent service providers or vendors i.e. a software as a service model wherein each component may be a separate service potentially each offered by different vendors or a more basic logical distribution such as maintaining each component as a distinct and independent software module easing operation for developers or operators that may operate a specific component without needing to be familiar with others. It should be further appreciated that the uses of system may vary considerably and that due to the flexible nature such a system may be useful and desirable for a wide variety of purposes and in a wide variety of fields. Some examples of use are given below in greater detail referring now to .

As illustrated in an initial step image data may be presented for use according to the method of the invention. Such image data may be of varied nature and may include images image information or metadata as described previously such as detailed information pertaining to the location where an image as taken or the device with which it was taken or any of a variety of relevant information which may be useful to an image based search operation. It should be appreciated that a feature of such a variable nature is a lack of reliance on any particular format or style of presenting or storing such data i.e. various existing data stores may be utilized according to the invention without needing to modify or alter them prior to use. Furthermore image data may be presented live such as capturing an image and immediately processing it according to the steps described below without first storing it and it should be appreciated that in this manner the method of the invention may be implemented as a preprocessing feature for use within or alongside image capture devices optionally in addition to further additional processing operations. In this manner for example a smartphone with a camera for image capture may operate an image indexing software element or plugin such that whenever an image is taken it may be indexed according to the method of the invention such as via steps described below prior to being stored or transferred as is common with such devices such as taking a picture and immediately sending it to another individual via an e mail or multimedia message .

In a next step image data may be received or retrieved such as according to whether such image data was previously stored or is being presented directly from an image capture device as described previously by an image indexing engine for indexing or processing such as to determine index data for further identification or processing. Such indexing may be performed according to a variety of parameters which may optionally be preconfigured such as for standalone or automated operation as may be desirable in a smartphone software plugin as described above or configurable such as for real time or interactive use as may be desirable in a web based search engine or other user interactive software arrangement .

In a substep an indexing engine may consult preconfigured parameters to determine if an automated indexing operation should be executed such as for scheduled operation. Such a configuration might be useful for example for a web search engine operator such as Google or Bing which might process a large quantity of image data during normal operation such as for traditional search indexing. Such a service might execute periodic scheduled image indexing operations to mine image data and improve overall search functionality.

In a further substep a user which may be a human individual a group such as a corporate IT department or even a software component designed and configured to operate interactively with an indexing engine may configure a specific indexing operation to be performed. Such configuration might be desirable for example when a user manually adds a quantity of image data and desires to index it for use. As described previously a user could be a software component rather than a human individual or group and such software might be configured to operate on an indexing engine interactively on behalf of a user or in a standalone manner. An example of intelligent software operation on behalf of a user might be a virtual assistant or similar artificial intelligence AI as is commonly utilized on smartphones and similar electronic devices wherein a user might request that an indexing operation be performed and a virtual assistant would then handle the particular configuration and execution of the operation without any further interaction. An example of standalone operation might be an AI system designed to intelligently operate with or upon an indexing engine without human interaction such as might be desirable for large scale operations wherein a more relevant and directed approach than simple scheduled or preconfigured indexing may be desired but it may be impractical or undesirable for such operations to be managed by human users such as in military operations where it may be desirable to process satellite imagery without dedicating personnel to the task .

In a next step image data is indexed according to an executed indexing operation as described above whether preconfigured or manually configured by a user. An example of preconfigured indexing operations that might be performed could be a search engine operator such as Google or Bing as described previously . It might be desirable for such a service provider to index image data according to a schedule due to the large volume of data being processed or for any of a variety of other potential reasons. Scheduled indexing operations could perform a single operation such as for example indexing all new images within the last 24 hours at a region level granularity and indexing any known individuals such as might be known from user accounts maintained by a service provider locations as might be known from Google Maps or similar mapping information accessible by a service provider or any other high level details that might be available to such a search provider. Alternately multiple indexing operations could be preconfigured such as may be desirable to perform a series of indexing operations of different granularity or performing multiple independent operations with different input criteria. For example it might be desirable to perform an initial pixel level analysis of terrain information for a service such as Google Maps followed by a region level operation to determine features such as desert or cities followed by a final scene level operation to determine statistical data such as land area covered by such terrain types or population data for cities indexed. It should be appreciated that due to the broad nature of such providers a wealth of information may potentially be available for use in indexing operations and that a wealth of uses may be realized and indices produced again due to the broad nature of such an implementation. In this manner such a use case can be seen as an example of the desirability and utility of a scalable architecture according to the embodiment.

An example of user configured indexing operations might be a military arrangement wherein satellite imagery may be received and indexed for specific features that may be desirable for military use. Such indexing might for example incorporate logic specifically searching for or ignoring certain features based on the nature of a specific area being surveyed such as singling out vehicles such as might be useful for searching for airfields or convoys or improving indexing efficiency without spending computing resources or time indexing known or expected features such as ignoring forests in an area known to be largely forested . Another exemplary use of such military operation might be selecting a granularity for indexing based on known image data such as performing pixel level terrain analysis when presented with a satellite image of a large open or undeveloped area while alternately performing higher level indexing operations when presented with a photograph of a location or group. For example when presented with an image of a group of individuals based on the location in which the photograph was taken if such information is available an indexing operation could be performed specifically for foreign military personnel or known terrorist leaders. In this manner the desirability and utility of a flexible nature according to the embodiment can be appreciated as exemplified by described arrangements for varied uses such as military analysis or service provider implementations for improved service functionality.

In a next step resultant index data from indexing operations previously described may be stored for further reference such as in a database or similar data store. Such a data store may be of varied nature as described previously referring now to and may be the same data store from which image data was retrieved initially or a separate distinct store such as for example a dedicated storage medium for index data specifically. Index data may comprise a variety of data types but it should be particularly appreciated that keyword or otherwise text based index data may be utilized facilitating a novel text based approach to image base searching thereby bridging existing technological gaps in search functionality. In this manner image data may be processed to produce text searchable index data accessible via existing or novel search engines and via text based search methods already familiar to end users and implemented in existing technologies. In this manner it should be appreciated that any existing search technology could be utilized according to the invention facilitated both by a modular architecture as described previously referring to as well as text based operation.

As envisioned by the inventor index data may be stored in a consistent format or style as opposed to image data which may be received in a variety of formats and from a variety of sources so as to facilitate a more adaptable and flexible function for use with existing image data so as to facilitate a standard that may be utilized by various modular indexing engines search engines or other system components as well as to provide a standardized and consistent data medium for developers enabling more efficient and robust engine development. It should be appreciated that such a standardized approach is exemplary though as envisioned by the inventor ideal and it may be desirable to utilize variable formatting for indices according to the invention such as user configurable index styles as may be desirable for individual use. Such an implementation might be a software application that might allow a user to configure indexing format for processing of image data i.e. personal photos captured by or stored within a device such as for organizing image collections according to personal preference.

In a next step search engine may access stored image or index data during a search operation. Such a search operation may be automated or user initiated via a substep such as search querying as is common in the art. As described previously referring to existing search engines may be utilized according to the invention such as in an exemplary configuration described previously wherein a search provider may operate image indexing to enhance the operation of their provided services. Expanding upon this exemplary configuration a search provider might utilize an external indexing service such as may be provided by a third party provider operating an indexing service and performing indexing operations according to the embodiment as described previously accessing such third party image or index data with their existing search technologies to enhance functionality and user experience without developing or incorporating in house indexing capabilities. In this manner further flexible functionality can be appreciated in that the nature of the invention is adaptable to a distributed or cloud based operating paradigm wherein individual components may be operated by separate vendors or providers facilitating a software as a service operating model as may be desirable for some implementations of the invention.

An example of an automated search operation might be a further military use case wherein a quantity of image data or index data may be automatically searched for specific features or elements. Such an implementation may be desirable for military operations as described previously wherein image data might have been automatically indexed and resultant indices stored. Such indices such as indexed terrain features or individuals might then be automatically queried such as for names of known terrorist leaders or keyword based automated searches such as searching for any indices corresponding to specific types of military equipment such as types of military vehicles that might be identifiable via image indexing . In this manner it can be appreciated that such automated searching may be useful for passive detection or monitoring that is automated indexing of images and subsequent searches operating upon resultant indices such as for detecting military formations or encampments locating specific individuals or tracking particular individuals such as by monitoring indexed location and time information. It should be appreciated that such implementations may be desirable not only for military but for a variety of monitoring or detection purposes and such a military use is provided only by way of example and that a wide variety of uses for such functionality may be realized according to the invention and it should be appreciated that such varied use is a key element of the scalable flexible and adaptable nature of the invention.

In a final step search results are returned. Results may be presented to a user that initiated a search or may be recorded for further reference as might be appropriate for automated searches as described above that is passive detection or monitoring implementations might record all hits or positive matches found for any of a variety of purposes. One example of such use of recorded search data might be a census bureau or similar surveying organization. Such an organization may operate passive indexing of image data made accessible to them such as map data obtained from Google Maps or similar freely accessible mapping resource followed by automated searching of indices for population information or natural features such as forested areas. Results of such searches may then be collated and stored such as for later retrieval and use in statistical analysis or surveying for example recording total land area covered by forest or areas of urban expansion. It should be appreciated that in this manner a fully featured automated implementation may be possible according to the invention facilitating a hands free image mining solution that may add value to or enable new function for existing services or enable entirely new areas that were previously impossible or impractical due to limitations of existing technologies.

Referring again to resolution set image data is divided into different tiles within each resolution to . That is image data with resolution may have larger tiles representing a scene level resolution that may for example encompass scene level features within image data for example amount and type of land cover object counts etc. whereas resolution of image data may for example provide detail at a region level resolution for example region level features with observations that may have shape properties such as area perimeter compactness elongation eccentricity etc. spatial relationships such as arrangement distance etc. object classifications for example a school paring lot swimming pool plane shopping mall etc. and the like of image data . In some embodiments resolution may include the same feature in a plurality of resolutions but with differing aspects for example color intensity rotation position relationship to other elements etc. and or an increased level of detail for a feature of image data .

Referring now to scene set according to the invention image capture devices may capture a plurality of image data over a period of time resulting in a plurality of images for image data during time period . For example image data may be of a parking lot in a shopping mall. Scene of image data may be captured by image capture device at the beginning of time sequence after a period of time for example five minutes image capture device may capture scene of image data and so on. Image indexing engine may process each scene in a variety of ways to generate index information which may then be stored such as in a database for further use refinement and or decomposition.

Each resolution to of image resolution set may include more detail on the same image data depending on which resolution is viewed. For example contour lines texture surface composition number of sub elements characteristics of features etc. One or more resolutions to may contain quantitative summary statistics indexed by indexing engine at each resolution to for each resolution tile for each time slice to to produce indices for each resolution to by time period . In some embodiments a time period may not be used. Each resolution to may also be made accessible to search engine such as to enable querying of index data for each resolution to . In this manner indexing engine may process image data for one or more resolutions whether by using a plurality of resolutions captured by image capture device for image data or by decomposition of image data into one or more additional resolutions . Search engine may then utilize resulting indices to perform a more relevant or precise search operation by accessing the necessary resolution from resolution set needed to satisfy the search. For example a search for vehicles within image data which may have a plurality of resolution representing large elements for example a landscape of mountains in the wilderness resolution representing medium sized elements for example paths and roadways in the landscape and resolution representing smaller elements within the landscape for example people animals and vehicles etc. search engine may use indices of resolution of image data to fulfill the search query from said example of a search for vehicles within image data . In a preferred embodiment users may wish to search on characteristics of image data over a period of time . For example users may desire to search for changes that may have occurred within image data over time period . For example in a business application a business owner may wish to understand traffic patterns in several roadways in a city before deciding where to construct a business that is dependent on traffic for example a drive through coffee establishment . In this example users may search for images where a resolution where vehicles can be identified in order to understand different traffic patterns of vehicles within image data from analysis of multiple scenes to over time period .

Table 1 is a table representing feature descriptions and an associated identifier ID corresponding to the feature within image data . For example in a scenario where image data may be an image of a terrestrial landscape descriptor may correspond to a roof of a building descriptor may correspond to a body of water descriptor k may correspond to a parking lot and so on. For each descriptor an ID in the first column of the same row is associated to identify each feature. In some embodiments one or more features for example buildings roads etc. within image data may be encoded with location information for example GPS coordinates of the feature and stored in database . It can be appreciated by one having ordinary skills in the art that there are many techniques for classes of computer program level services used to determine and record location. In some embodiments a feature for example roadways that may be present within image data may compute quantitative measurements for example size of feature orientation of feature quantity of like features etc. and store them in database . In some embodiments quantitative measurements may be discretized and transformed into keywords. For example a tile within image data may contain 20 water. A keyword representation for 20 water may be characterized as water  water  water  water . In another embodiment a keyword representation for 20 water may be characterized as water water water etc. were keyword water is repeated 20 times . In this example a search for 10 water may match tiles within image data that had 20 water. For the presence of sub features of a feature a similar encoding may be used and may contain a quantity encoding. For example one or more tiles of image data that contains a water feature may also contain one or more docks within the water feature. For example a tile with 30 docks a string encoding may be encoded a similar fashion as for a water feature. That is a quantity of 30 docks may be encoded as dock  dock  dock  dock .

Table 2 is an exemplary table of an inverted index for feature presence of features within image data . Table 2 comprises a column labeled ID and one or more columns T through Tn corresponding to a tile in image data grid . Each field in the ID column comprises a descriptor ID that corresponds to a feature description as denoted by Table 1 that may be present in image data . For each field in columns T through Tn a 1 denotes the corresponding feature is present in the tile for image data for example on row V A 0 under column T denotes that feature descriptor for example a roof may not present in tile of image data and so on. A similar table for each resolution to may be used to arrange feature presence.

In some embodiments a feature s quantity may be encoded using a graphical representation of a distribution of data for example a histogram. In this example a histogram may be encoded to have bins labeled for each feature that may or may not be present for example water roof forest road sand grass where the height of each bin may represent a quantitative measurement for each of the corresponding features. In a preferred embodiment a string whose character length is equivalent to the number of bins on the histogram herein referred to as encoding string may be used to represent a quantitative measurement for each feature of each tile of image grid . For example in a scenario where image data included features such as 10 water 20 roof and 50 forest 20 grass a string representing a quantitative measurement for features such as water roof forest road sand and grass a possible encoding string may be characterized as 125002. That is a digit that represents the first integer of the quantity stated above for example 10 water would be summarized as a single digit 1 20 roof would be summarized as a single digit 2 and so on. For features that may not be present a number 0 may be used. In the example above a 0 was used for road and sand since none were present in the example.

In a preferred embodiment users may perform a search on one or more features by encoding search features in a similar sting encoded fashion as described above for feature presence within image data . For example user may desire to find the areas within image data that may contain 20 forest or more. In a scenario where water roof forest road sand and grass are categorized and string encoded for image data a search for 20 forest may be encoded by search engine as 002000 herein referred to as search string . Search engine may access indices to select an appropriate resolution for image data for example resolution . By comparing the search string to a string encoding value for each tile in table 2 that is a table indicating which features are present for resolution search engine may determine which tiles contain 20 forest. In some embodiments search engine may use an edit distance between the search string and encoded strings for features as a search result for example the number of edits required transform the search string into an encoded feature string . It can be appreciated by one having ordinary skills in the art that one of many algorithms may be used to calculate edit distance or Levenshtein distance to calculate the number of operations required to transform a search string into an encoded string representing features within image data to determine search results.

In a preferred embodiment features within image data are analyzed by tiles within one or more resolutions etc. In some embodiments there may be only one level of resolution for feature extraction. In other embodiments there may be additional levels of resolutions for image data .

In some embodiments additional levels of feature classifications for example lower level and higher level classification may be used to extract features by one of more feature extractors .

In a particular embodiment feature extractors may be architected in a modular feature extraction framework. For example to allow feature extraction to be written in any language for example GPU CUDA IDL python and the like to allow modules to be developed with specific algorithms to solve particular problem for example detecting specific feature elements such as those that may only be present in a certain locale or have a unique signature etc. . Furthermore a modular approach allows for distributed computing for efficiency of computational processing for example to offset computational load across a plurality or processing engines when processing large datasets .

Once features are extracted by feature extractors to shared file system mapper processes the feature into many mapping nodes and is sorted by a key for example ID ID etc. of Table 1 . Reducer performs an intermediate shuffle phase that merges the mapping output from mapping nodes and sorts by the key and are distributed to a reduce set of nodes such that they each consume a partition of data and produce an inverted index shard partition . Once complete feature data is sorted and aggregated by tile id for example T T etc. in Table 2 within image resolution . A plurality of reducers are chosen such that the number of index shards required to partition image data for a one or more feature set or one or more resolutions are produced. In some embodiments a matric such as Table 2 may be produced to indicate the presence of features for example feature V from Table 2 which corresponds to descriptor from Table 1 for each tile for example tile T from Table 2 .

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

