---

title: Vertical floor expansion on an interactive digital map
abstract: A digital map of a geographic area is displayed via a user interface, and a 3D representation of a multi-story building located in the geographic area is displayed on the digital map. The 3D representation includes multiple stacked floor maps corresponding to the floors of the multi-story building. In response to the detection of a pinch gesture that is applied to the 3D representation, a vertical distance between each floor map is expanded relative to the detected pinch gesture to reveal features of an internal map that corresponds to each floor map.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652115&OS=09652115&RS=09652115
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09652115
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
The present disclosure relates to interactive digital maps and more particularly to providing an interface for interacting with representations of multi story buildings displayed as part of digital maps on a computing device.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

Today a wide variety of computing devices including many portable devices support software applications that display interactive digital maps mapping applications . For example mapping applications may run on laptop and tablet computers mobile phones car navigation systems hand held global positioning system GPS units etc. Many of these devices are equipped with a touchscreen a touchpad or are otherwise configured to receive input that includes finger gestures. A user may for example may pan across a map by swiping her finger in the desired direction zoom in on an area by pinching two fingers together etc.

In general a mapping application can display various types of geographic data including topographical data street data urban transit information and traffic data. Further the geographic data may be schematic or based on photography such as satellite imagery. Still further a mapping application can display the information in a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D format.

A user sometimes may operate a mapping application to view a map of an urban area rendered two dimensionally and schematically to better see street names names of landmarks etc. However such maps may include multi story buildings for which additional floor specific information is available. For example different information may be available for each of ten floors of a building and it is difficult for a mapping application to display this information two dimensionally without creating confusion and clutter. On the other hand displaying information for a multi story building as part of a 3D map can result in some of the information being obscured.

One embodiment of the techniques discussed below is a method for providing an interactive display of multi story buildings displayed on a map. The method is implemented in a computing device having a user interface that is configured to receive gesture based input. The method includes displaying a digital map of a geographic area via the user interface and displaying on the digital map a three dimensional 3D representation of a multi story building located in the geographic area including displaying a plurality of stacked floor maps corresponding to a plurality of floors of the multi story building. The method also includes detecting via the user interface a pinch gesture that is applied to the 3D representation of the multi story building and modifying a vertical distance between two of the plurality of stacked floor maps in accordance with the pinch gesture including not modifying a zoom level at which the two of the plurality of stacked floor maps are displayed.

Another embodiment of the techniques described in the present disclosure is a method in a computing device for providing a digital map of outdoor and indoor locations via a user interface. The method includes displaying a three dimensional 3D representation of a multi story building located in a geographic area of the digital map while displaying a plurality of stacked floor maps corresponding to a plurality of floors of the multi story building. The method also includes detecting a pinch gesture via the user interface that is applied to the 3D representation of the multi story building. In detecting the pinch gesture a first point of contact is detected that overlays a first one of the plurality of stacked floor maps corresponding to a first one of the plurality of floors and a second point of contact is detected that overlays a second one of the plurality of stacked floor maps corresponding to a second one of the plurality of floors where at least one of the plurality of floors is not between the first one of the plurality of floors and the second one of the plurality of floors. Finally the method includes modifying vertical distances between pairs of floor maps in a range between the first one of the plurality of stacked floor maps and the second one of the plurality of stacked floor maps while not modifying vertical distances between one or more pairs of floor maps outside the range.

Still another embodiment of the techniques discussed below is a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon a set of instructions for providing an interactive display of multi story buildings displayed on a map. The instructions stored in the computer readable storage medium may be executed on a processor in a computing device having a user interface that is configured to receive gesture based input. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions for displaying a digital map of a geographic area via the user interface and displaying on the digital map a three dimensional 3D representation of a multi story building located in the geographic area including displaying a plurality of stacked individually selectable floor maps corresponding to a plurality of floors of the multi story building. The computer readable storage medium also includes instructions for detecting via the user interface a gesture that operates directly on the 3D representation of the multi story building and instructions for modifying a vertical distance between two of the plurality of stacked floor maps in accordance with gesture and in response to detecting the gesture including not modifying a zoom level at which the two of the plurality of stacked floor maps are displayed.

A mapping software module operating on a computing device displays an interactive digital map of a geographic region in which a multi story building is located. The mapping software module provides an intuitive space efficient and aesthetically pleasing user interface for inspecting the internal features of the multi story building such as floor maps that include floor contours as well as internal wall layout and names of individuals or organizations occupying different floors of the building.

In one example implementation the mapping software module displays a 2D schematic map that includes low detail 3D outlines of buildings which may be displayed to scale with the map. A user selects the desired building by tapping on the corresponding 3D outline. The mapping software module then expands the low level outline view of the selected multi story building to display the internal features of the building as a 3D stack of floor maps or contours each illustrated in a perspective view. The 3D stack in some cases is significantly larger than the low detail 3D outline so that the floor contours are clearly visible and easily viewable. The mapping software module allows the user to modify a vertical distance between every floor map of the building via a gesture that operates directly on the expanded representation of the multi story building. In expanding the vertical distance between each floor map for example the mapping software module allows the user to view more internal features of each floor map because of the increased spacing between floor maps. For example when the space above one particular floor of a multi story office building is expanded to allow better visibility the mapping module may display internal features of the floor map for the particular floor such as businesses stores restrooms escalators etc. located on that particular floor. Once the user taps outside this expanded representation of the multi story building the mapping software module collapses the view of the multi story building back to a 3D outline.

According to one example implementation on a computing device equipped with a touchpad or a touchscreen the mapping software module allows the user to expand a vertical distance or spacing between each floor map of a representation of a 3D building using a pinch gesture. More specifically after selecting a particular representation of a building the user performs a pinch gesture to expand the vertical distance between each floor map in accordance with the pinch gesture. In detecting the rate of the pinch gesture the mapping application may expand the vertical distance between every floor map at a rate identical to the detected pinch gesture rate. Likewise the mapping application may expand the vertical distance between every floor map to the same extent as is relatively proportional to the detected pinch gesture. Moreover the user may apply a pinch gesture to only a subset of floors within the representation and in response the mapping application may expand the vertical distance between the floor maps for only the floors in the subset. Thus the user may desire to only expand the upper floors of a ten story office building to view features of an internal floor map for those selected particular upper floors.

These techniques are discussed in more detail below with reference to . In particular an example system in which a mapping software module may interactively present internal features of buildings is described with reference to example screenshots of the mapping software module are discussed with reference to and example methods which the mapping software module may implement to provide a user interface for inspecting internal features of multi story buildings are discussed with reference to .

Referring first to a system includes a computing device coupled to a map server via a communication network . The computing device can be for example a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone etc. In the embodiment illustrated in the computing device includes a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a computer readable memory and a user interface including a touch interface . In various implementations the touch interface can include a touchpad over which the user moves his fingers while looking at a separately provided screen a touchscreen where the user places his fingers directly over the image being manipulated or over a displayed control being activated e.g. a displayed keyboard etc. The memory is a computer readable non transitory storage device that may include both persistent e.g. a hard disk and non persistent e.g. RAM memory components stores instructions executable on the CPU and or the GPU that make up a mapping software module and map data on which the mapping module operates. The mapping software module includes an internal building feature inspection module that allows users to easily inspect internal features of multi story buildings.

The mapping software module according to various implementations operates as a separately executable software application a plugin that extends the functionality of another software application such as a web browser an application programming interface API invokable by a software application etc. The instructions that make up the mapping software module may be compiled and executable on the CPU and or the GPU directly or not compiled and interpreted by the CPU at runtime. Further the internal building feature inspection module may be provided as an integral part of the mapping software module or as a separately installable and downloadable component.

Depending on the implementation the map data may be in a raster format such as Portable Network Graphics PNG a vector graphics format based on mathematical descriptions of geometric shapes or any other suitable format. The map data in some cases is divided into map tiles or portions of a map image having a certain fixed size such as 256 by 256 pixels. In operation the mapping module receives the map data from the map server renders a map image based on the map data and causes the map image to be displayed via the user interface . When the map data is already rasterized the mapping module renders the map image by selecting and combining the proper rasterized tiles. However if the map data is in a vector graphics format the mapping module interprets the descriptions of various shapes to generate the corresponding raster images. The mapping module also adjusts the displayed image and requests new map data when necessary in response to user input received via the user interface . More specifically the user may change the zoom level pan across the map select a different map type e.g. traffic map terrain map and otherwise interact with the map.

In an example scenario the map server receives a request that specifies the geographic area the zoom level and the map type. The map server in response retrieves outdoor map data and indoor map data from an outdoor map database and an indoor map database respectively. The map server then provides the outdoor map data the indoor map data and appropriate indications of how certain portions of the outdoor map data and the indoor map data are linked to the computing device as part of the map data .

When provided in a vector graphics format outdoor map data may specify individual map elements representing such outdoor physical entities as roads parks bodies of water external walls of buildings and other natural and artificial objects visible outside e.g. from above or at a street level. In a raster format map elements typically are embedded into the same image. Outdoor map also may include text based data for displaying various labels such as street names or names of landmarks. In general outdoor map data may be for generating 2D images or 3D images and may include schematic data photographic images or both.

Indoor map data may specify internal features of buildings such as the layout of internal walls or dividers names of people businesses and organizations occupying different portions of a building locations of elevators escalators restrooms etc. For multi story buildings the indoor map data may specify internal features on a per floor basis. Similar to outdoor map data indoor map data may include both graphics content and non graphics e.g. text content and the graphics content may include schematic illustrations photographic images interactive and non interactive icons etc.

Certain portions of the outdoor map data may be logically linked to respective portions of indoor map data. In particular certain map elements displayed on a map may be linked to indoor data that typically is not displayed on the map without an additional user request. In other words certain map elements may be associated with additional map data that is not part of the map image typically displayed for the specified geographic region map type and zoom level. Referring to the map data the map server can provide outdoor map data as a collection of separate data structures each containing a vector based description of a map element text based label data and metadata that further contains a unique identifier of another data structure storing the corresponding indoor map data. If the outdoor map data included in the map data is rasterized the unique identifier of a data structure storing indoor map data can be provided for a particular set of coordinates in the raster image. In either case the mapping software module can display the outdoor map data and provide interactive controls for activating the display of relevant indoor map data.

As a more specific example according to one implementation the map server provides as part of outdoor map data external representations of buildings in the form of low detail 3D outlines. The mapping software module superimposes these 3D outlines over a 2D map. In another implementation the map server provides 3D mesh descriptions of buildings along with photographic imagery for texturing the corresponding 3D meshes. Using this type of map data the mapping software module can generate realistic highly detailed external representations of buildings. In yet another implementation the map server provides merely 2D outlines or footprints of buildings on a 2D map. A user can tap or click on these 2D or 3D external representations of buildings to instruct the mapping software module to display the internal features of the buildings in an expanded format.

With continued reference to the map server may include a processor and a memory that stores a request handler made up of instructions executable on the processor . The computing device and the map server may communicate in a client server mode where the computing device sends requests for map data to the map server and the map server provides map data in response to these requests. More particularly the request handler in operation receives requests for map data from the computing device identifies and retrieves the requisite map data from the outdoor map database and or the indoor map database formats response messages that contain the map data and causes the response messages to be transmitted to the computing device via the network which may be a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN or any other suitable type of a network.

For simplicity illustrates the map server as only one instance of a server device. However the map server according to some implementations includes in a group of one or more map server devices each equipped with one or more processors and capable of operating independently of the other map server devices. Map server devices operating in such a group can process requests from the computing device individually e.g. based on availability in a distributed manner where one operation associated with processing a request is performed on one map server device while another operation associated with processing the same request is performed on another map server device or according to any other suitable technique. For the purposes of this discussion the term map server may refer to an individual map server device or to a group of two or more map server devices.

Now referring to an example screenshot illustrates a representation of a multi story building overlaying a map of a geographic area . Indoor and outdoor map data are displayed within a same viewport in this example. The representation includes several stacked floor maps . When a user selects the representation and performs a pinch gesture on the selected the representation the floor maps vertically expand in accordance to the pinch gesture to reveal internal features of each expanded floor map of the multi story building as an example screenshot illustrates in . For the purposes of this discussion the term pinch gesture may refer to any type of pinch gesture including a pinching motion spreading motion rotating motion or any other suitable motion that a user may gesture to indicate the vertical expansion or compression of floor maps of the multi story building. Moreover the pinch gesture may be replaced with a control element such as widget with a expand button and a compress button or any other suitable manner in expanding or compressing the vertical distance between floor maps.

In this example the map illustrates several city blocks and includes various outdoor map elements such as roads railroad tracks and low detail outlines of buildings and . The map also can include icons and text labels corresponding to outdoor map data such as a map transit icon for example. Although the map is a 2D map on which most map elements are illustrated with a one point projection the expanded representation in general can overlay any other suitable type of a map such as a 3D map for example. A mapping software e.g. the internal building feature inspection module operating in the mapping software module of or a similar module may provide functions for interacting with outdoor map data such as rotate zoom pan etc. as well as functions for inspecting internal features of buildings when indoor map data is available. The screenshot corresponds to the scenario in which the user selected the multi story building by clicking or tapping on the corresponding low detail outline for example and the mapping software in response generated the expanded representation .

The low detail outline or provides a general indication of the shape of the building. The outline or typically does not provide a high level of detail such the shape of every external wall or the ornamental features of the buildings nor does the outline illustrate internal features of the building. In the example of the low detail outlines and are 3D shapes displayed according to an isometric projection. In another implementation however these outlines can be illustrated with a two point perspective. More generally and as discussed above buildings and other structures for which indoor map data is available generally can be illustrated using any suitable 2D or 3D shapes rendered with any desired level of detail.

According to some implementations the mapping software provides an indication of whether indoor map data is available for an outdoor map element by changing the cursor for example or highlighting the map element upon detecting a hover event. In this manner the user need not click or tap on a map element illustrating a building only to find out that internal map data for the building is unavailable.

As best seen in the floor maps are laid out on different planes tilted relative to the plane of the screen to provide a 3D view of the internal features of the corresponding building. The floor maps partially overlap to more efficiently utilize screen real estate. Similar to low detail 3D outlines the stack of floor maps is displayed according to an isometric projection although it is possible to display the stack of floor maps with a two point perspective for example. The mapping module may initially display the floors maps as contours free of internal floor features. In embodiments according to which floors maps display some or all internal floor features as partially or fully opaque so that some of the floor maps can partially occlude other floor maps and thereby reduce clutter on the screen.

When the user begins vertically expanding the floors of the multi story building using a pinch gesture the distance between each floor maps gradually increases to reveal more internal features of each lower floor map that is occluded by the floor map directly above . Thus for example if the user makes a pinch gesture such as a spreading motion in the vicinity of a point the distance between floor one and floor two and the distance between floor two and floor three begin vertically increasing at a rate relative to the pinch gesture. In this example and as illustrated in both distances between floors continue vertically expanding according to the pinch gesture until the user ceases performing the pinch gesture. In response to the user terminating the pinch gesture each expanded floor map may remain at its expanded position or may collapse back down to its original non expanded position immediately or after a predetermined time interval. In an alternative example the distances between floors may switch from vertical expansion to vertical compression upon the user changing the type of pinch gesture such as a pinching motion.

With reference to the detailed floor maps are generated using indoor map data and may illustrate in addition to the contours of the floor hallways and rooms or offices although in general each detailed floor map can depict any available indoor floor features. In the example of the detailed floor map is fully visible so that no part of the detailed floor map is occluded by any of the floor maps of lower or higher floors. When the user further expands the floor maps using the pinch gesture both the floor maps of the first floor and second floor become fully visible. Alternatively the mapping module may only display the internal features of a detailed floor map when the distance between two floors of the multi story building is greater than a threshold. For example the detailed floor map is only visible when the distance between floor map of floor two and the floor map of floor three is greater than a certain threshold value. The threshold value may be preset for all floors configured for specific floors configured for to specific buildings or types of buildings dynamically determined based on the zoom level etc. The mapping application may alternatively reveal the detailed floor maps to the user as each expanding floor map becomes visible during the pinch gesture or determine when to display the detailed floor maps in any suitable manner.

Now referring to an example screenshots illustrates a representation of a ten story mid rise building displayed on a map. When the user initiates a pinch gesture at a pinch gesture point i.e. point of contact near floor eight of the representation of the building and a pinch gesture point near floor five of the representation of the building only the floor maps between the two points may expand while other floor maps outside the two points remain stationary as illustrated in an example screenshot . As shown in only the distances between the floor maps that are positioned between the two pinch gesture points vertical expand relative to the pinch gesture to reveal the features of the detailed floor maps . This allows for better use of screen real estate while allowing the user to quickly view the features of an internal map for a particular floor in a large building such as a sixty story office building.

Referring back to the user may tap on a point on the map that is outside the expanded representation or move the viewport so that the expanded representation is no longer visible. In response the mapping software may revert to the mode in which the user interacts with outdoor map data. In particular the expanded representation may collapse to the low detail representation .

Thus according to some implementations the internal building feature inspection module provides an interface for inspecting indoor map data free of additional controls such as buttons for expanding the distance between floors or a floor picker with numbered buttons displayed over the map . In other implementations however the internal building feature inspection module additionally or alternatively provides controls overlaying the map. For example the internal building feature inspection module may display a floor picker next to a multi story building and support a pinch gesture for changing the distance between floors.

To further illustrate the techniques for providing an intuitive and efficient interface for inspecting indoor and outdoor map data example methods that the internal building feature inspection module may implement are discussed next with reference to . More generally these methods can be implemented in any suitable computing device and any suitable software application. For example these methods can be implemented as sets of instructions stored on a computer readable medium and executable on a processor.

The flow diagram of illustrates an example method for displaying a representation of a multi story building on a map of a geographic region. At block an interactive digital map of a geographic region is rendered. The rendered digital map may be rendered using outdoor map data and may display map elements such as roads buildings parks bodies of water etc. A low detail representation of a multi story building is rendered at block . As discussed above a low detail representation is only one example of a suitable external representation of the building. In other embodiments the external representation may be a detailed 3D representation textured with photographs of the building.

Next at block a selection of the multi story map on the digital map is detected. The selection may correspond to a tap event for example if a touch interface is used. An extended 3D representation of the multi story building having multiple stacked floor maps is rendered at block . Referring back to this representation may be similar to the representation .

At block a pinch gesture as applied to the representation is detected via the user interface and a vertical distance between each floor map and its neighboring floor map is expanded in accordance with the pinch gesture. While the representation of the building is selected at the block the zoom level of the displayed representation of the building does not change during the detection of the pinch and the expansion of the vertical distance between floor maps. For example the user performs a pinch gesture anywhere near the representation and in response the vertical distance between each floor map and its neighboring floor map expands while the user continues to perform the pinch gesture. Generally the user performs the pinch gesture until each floor map in the representation may be viewed in sufficient detail.

A detailed floor map for each expanded floor map is rendered at block . The detailed floor map may display geometric shapes icons photography text etc. to illustrate various internal floor features. The detailed floor map may be rendered at any time such as when the vertical distance between one floor map and its neighboring floor map is greater than a threshold for example. When a selection of a new point on the digital map is detected block it is determined whether the new point is outside the expanded representation of the multi story building block . If the new point is inside the expanded representation the flow returns to block where a new or the same floor is selected. Otherwise the flow proceeds to block to await the detection of another pinch gesture.

At block the extended 3D representation of the multi story building is collapsed back to the low detail representation of the same building. In this manner the user can effectively switch between the outdoor map data inspection mode and the indoor map data inspection mode.

At block a 3D representation of a multi story building is rendered similarly to the block discussed with reference to . Next at block a user gesture is detected. The gesture such as the pinch gesture includes the pinching motion or spreading motion for example of a finger along a vertical axis of the 3D representation of the building. In another implementation however the motion may include a motion along a different axis such as the horizontal axis.

According to the method each vertical distance between each floor map and its neighboring floor map is expanded at block . More particularly each vertical distance between each floor map and its neighboring floor map is expanded in accordance to the detected pinch gesture. Alternatively each vertical distance between each floor map and its neighboring floor map may also be compressed in accordance to the detected pinch gesture. The internal features of the activated floor are displayed in general when the vertical distance between two floor maps in greater than a certain threshold value.

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter of the present disclosure.

Additionally certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components or modules. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code stored on a machine readable medium or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some cases a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware and software modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware and or software modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware or software modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware or software modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules or software are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware or software modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware or software modules have access. For example one hardware or software module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware or software module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware and software modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods or routines described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a SaaS. For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm or a routine is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms routines and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for providing an interface for inspecting indoor and outdoor map data through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

