---

title: System and method of recording programs of favorite channels
abstract: A method includes automatically recording a plurality of programs associated with a favorite channel including creating a recording entry for at least one program of the plurality of programs. The recording entry includes information indicating a starting position of a recording of the at least one program and a storage location corresponding to the recording. The method includes, in response to receiving a request to display a particular program, sending a recording of the particular program to a device for presentation. The particular program is automatically presented at the starting position indicated by a particular recording entry that corresponds to the particular program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798443&OS=08798443&RS=08798443
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08798443
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 481 135 filed on Jun. 9 2009 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF RECORDING PROGRAMS OF FAVORITE CHANNELS the contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Television viewing is part of daily life for many people. The wealth of content available from television service providers allows many people to find entertaining and informative programming. Computing devices that are coupled to or integrated with television devices can augment television viewing by providing additional functions. For example set top box devices can run applications to provide program guides games and other content. The wealth of programming and functionality of television systems leaves a television viewer with many choices including the choice to initiate or schedule recording of television programs. A user may be inconvenienced when the user wants to see a particular program that has not been scheduled for recording and that has already begun. In this case the user may have to wait until a subsequent broadcast time to watch or record the particular program.

In a particular illustrative embodiment a first window of a plurality of windows is designated to display a first program of a first channel and a second window of the plurality of windows is designated to display a second program of a second channel. The first and second windows may be part of a mosaic display or a television or other display device. The first channel and the second channel may be included in a set of favorite channels. A method includes automatically recording the first program associated with the first channel while the first program is in progress and automatically recording the second program associated with the second channel while the second program is in progress. The method further includes display of a start of program option at the display device. In response to a selection of the start of program option a previously recorded program in progress e.g. the first program or the second program is automatically replayed from a beginning of the displayed program at the display device.

In another embodiment a system includes a display control component to communicate a display including a plurality of windows to a display device. A first window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a first channel and a second window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a second channel. Each of the first and second windows is adapted to be enlarged to a larger size window. The system includes a selection component to receive a selection of a start of program option associated with a particular window. In response to selection of the start of program option associated with the particular window a recording of a displayed program in progress in the particular window is replayed from a beginning of the displayed program in progress.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium is disclosed that comprises operational instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to present content of a first program of a first channel for display at a first window at a display device and to present content of a second program of a second channel for display at a second window at the display device. The operational instructions further cause the processor to initiate automatic recording of the first program and the second program while the first and second program are in progress. The operational instructions also cause the processor to present for display a control element where selection of the control element causes a particular program in progress to be displayed from a beginning of the particular program. The control element may be a displayed selectable icon.

The set top box has a network interface to enable communications between the set top box and the network server via the network . An electronic program guide that may be downloaded from the network server may provide program start time information the durations of programs the titles of programs actors appearing in the programs and brief descriptions of the programs or any combination thereof. A user may view a display of the electronic program guide by selecting a key on the remote control device .

The set top box may include a display control component to communicate a display interface including a plurality of windows to the display device . In one embodiment a first window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a first favorite channel and a second window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a second favorite channel. In addition other additional windows can be designated to display content of other favorite channels. Thus a plurality of channels can be displayed in a mosaic view that includes multiple windows within the full screen. For example the mosaic view may display 8 windows with each window displaying content of a currently broadcasted program of a particular channel. The user can initiate or can cease display of the multiple window i.e. mosaic view by using the remote control device . The display control component may also cause the display of a selected program in an enlarged window such as a full screen window.

The set top box may include a selection component to produce a selection control element for display at the display device . In a particular embodiment when the selection control element is selected a program in progress is displayed from the beginning of the program. For example the selection control element may include a button labeled RESTART. The user may select the button using the keys of the remote control device .

In one embodiment the set top box includes a processor . The processor may execute computer code that may be stored in a memory . Execution of the computer code may cause the set top box to perform various functions. For example these functions may include displaying a plurality of windows at the display device where a first window shows a first program of a first channel and a second window shows a second program of a second channel. The functions may also include displaying a start of program option that when selected causes the display device to display a selected program in progress starting from the beginning of the program. The functions may also include displaying a selected program in an enlarged view such as in a large or full sized window.

The network server may be located remote from the display device in a location having numerous network servers to serve a large number of user locations e.g. television subscriber residences . The network server has a network interface to enable the network server to communicate with a plurality of set top boxes via the network . The network server may have an electronic program guide that can be downloaded to set top boxes e.g. the set top box connected to the network . In some embodiments the electronic program guide is used to determine a location of start of program markers in a program that is being recorded.

In a particular embodiment the network server includes a channel recorder . The channel recorder may record programs of favorite channels from a favorite channels list located in a memory of the network server . The favorite channels list of a user can be uploaded from the set top box . The set top box may receive the favorite channels list via user input or may determine favorite channels by observation of user viewing habits. The programs of the channels in the favorite channels list may be recorded into a circular buffer of the memory . In a particular embodiment start of program markers are inserted into the recordings at the start of each program. The start time of each program can be determined from the electronic program guide .

In a particular embodiment the network server includes a processor . The processor may execute computer code stored in the memory . Execution of the computer code may cause the network server to perform various functions. These functions may include automatically recording content of programs of favorite channels inserting start of program markers in the recorded content and transmitting a recorded program starting from the beginning of the program in response to a user request.

In operation the network server may automatically record programs of channels that are included in at least one user s favorite channels list . A first favorite channels list can be stored for a first user and a second favorite channels list can be stored for a second user. Thus multiple users can each have his or her own list of favorite channels and the programs of the favorite channels in each list can all be automatically recorded. A user at the display device may choose to simultaneously display the user s favorite channels in a mosaic view such as mosaic view at display device . The mosaic view may include a plurality of windows each particular window showing the content of a program of a particular favorite channel. When the user desires to watch a particular program the user may select the window in the mosaic view that is showing the particular program. In response to selection of the window the content of the particular program may be enlarged to a larger window that is easier to see. In a particular embodiment the user may select a restart button to restart the particular program i.e. replay the displayed program in the selected window from the beginning In response to selection of the restart button the particular program may be shown from the beginning of the program in an enlarged view e.g. a full screen view using content from the automatically recorded program.

In another embodiment a restart button can be displayed for each window in the mosaic view enabling the user to select the restart button of the window showing the desired program. In response to selecting the restart button for a particular window the program shown in the window may be restarted from the beginning of the program using the content from the automatically recorded program. In another embodiment the program shown by the window may be both restarted and enlarged in response to a selection of the restart button.

The set top box may include a network interface to enable communications between the set top box and a network server via a network . The electronic program guide that may be downloaded from the network server may provide program start information durations of programs the titles of programs actors appearing in programs brief descriptions of programs other information associated with programs or any combination thereof. A user may view a display of electronic program guide information from the electronic program guide by selecting a key on a remote control device . In some embodiments the display of the electronic program guide information is interactive allowing the user to scroll over channels vertical scroll or over time slots horizontal scroll .

The set top box may include a display control component to communicate a display interface that includes a plurality of windows to a display device to display a mosaic view of favorite channels . In a particular embodiment a first window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a first favorite channel and a second window of the plurality of windows is designated to display content of a second favorite channel. In addition more than two windows can be displayed to display content of more than two favorite channels. For example a user may have three or more favorite channels with a window for each favorite channel.

The set top box may include a selection component to produce a selectable control element for display at the display device . When the selectable control element is selected a program in progress may be displayed from the beginning of the program. The program may be retrieved from content stored in the circular buffer . For example the selectable control element may include a button labeled RESTART. The user may select the RESTART button using one or more of the keys of the remote control device .

In one embodiment the set top box includes a processor . The processor may execute computer code stored in the memory . Execution of the computer code may cause the set top box to perform various functions. For example these functions may include displaying a plurality of windows at the display device where a first window shows a first program of a first channel and a second window shows a second program of a second channel. The functions may also include displaying a start of program option that when selected causes the display device to display a program in progress starting from the beginning of the program. The functions may also include displaying a selected program in an enlarged view.

In a particular embodiment the channel recorder of the set top box automatically records programs of multiple channels e.g. channels in a favorite channels list or in channels in a mosaic view . In some embodiments the channel recorder is coupled to a Digital Video Recorder DVR that is separate from but accessible to the set top box .

The network server may include a network interface that enables communication between the network server and the set top box via the network . The network server may include an electronic program guide EPG that may be downloaded to the set top box . The network server may include a processor that executes computer code stored in a memory . Execution of the computer code may cause the EPG to be downloaded to the set top box .

Advancing to the first program is automatically recorded while the first program is in progress. The second program is automatically recorded while the second program is in progress. The recording of the first and second programs is performed automatically without any action required by a user. The first and second programs can be recorded concurrently. The recording may not be limited to two programs. For example the user may have three favorite channels that can be simultaneously displayed in a mosaic view by a display device. These three channels may be recorded concurrently by a network server or a set top box. Further the recording of programs of favorite channels may occur automatically while the programs are in progress even if the programs are not being displayed in a mosaic view. For example all the programs of each favorite channel may be recorded in a circular buffer whether the viewer is viewing the programs or not.

In one embodiment a list of the user s favorite channels is uploaded to a network server from a set top box and the network server automatically records the content of the favorite channels during transmission of these channels to the set top box. Because the favorite channels are being recorded automatically while in progress the user need not initiate or schedule a recording. When the user desires to watch a particular program of one of the user s favorite channels from the beginning of the program the program can be restarted immediately because the program has previously been recorded. This is convenient to the user since the user does not have to initiate or schedule a recording of the program the user wants to see from the beginning.

Moving to a start of program option is sent to the display device. When the start of program option is selected by the user a recorded version of the displayed program in progress is automatically replayed from a beginning of the program in progress. In one embodiment when the plurality of windows showing content of favorite channels is displayed the user can select a window showing a particular program the user desires to view from the beginning. In response to selection of the window the recorded program being shown by that window may be displayed in an enlarged view. In one embodiment the enlarged view is displayed along with a restart button that may be selected by the user. When the user selects the restart button the program which had been displayed in progress is displayed starting from the beginning of the program using the content of the automatically recorded program such as a program that is recorded at a set top box a DVR coupled to the set top box or at a server .

Since recording of programs of favorite channels occurs automatically in the method of the user does not have to initiate or schedule a recording of a program of a favorite channel. A start of program marker can be inserted into the recordings of multiple programs based on information from an electronic program guide. When a user selects to start the program from the beginning the program can start from the beginning of the program immediately because the program has already been recorded and the start of program marker shows the location in the recording where the program begins.

Advancing to a plurality of windows is displayed at a display device. Each of the windows may show content of a program in progress on a different channel. For example a user may be viewing a mosaic view of favorite channels. In a particular embodiment the method may enable the user to display a program in progress on a channel from the beginning of the program. To illustrate the user may decide to watch a movie that is being displayed in progress in a window of the mosaic view. To do so the user may select the movie by using a remote control device. For example the user may depress arrow keys to select the window displaying the movie. Therefore at user selection of a program in progress may be received during display of the window that shows content of programs is progress. In response to the user selection the selected window may be enlarged and the other windows may cease to be displayed.

Continuing at the beginning of the user selected program in a recording of the selected program is determined. For example the automatic recording of the program in progress in the selected window may be searched until a start of program marker is found. The start of program marker may be inserted into the recording of the program based on data of an electronic program guide. When the start of program marker is found content of the program is sent to a display device starting from the beginning of the program at . Moving to the display device displays the user selected program starting from the beginning. In a particular embodiment the displayed program is displayed in an enlarged view. When the displayed program is played back from the beginning of the program the windows of the other favorite channels may cease to be displayed. Alternatively the other windows may have been removed and the program in progress may be displayed in a large window or full screen view prior to user selection of the start from beginning option.

When the plurality of windows are displayed the user may select one of the displayed windows . In response to selection of a displayed window the program being shown by the selected window may be displayed in an enlarged view of the display as illustrated in . In some embodiments a restart control element is displayed. The user may select the restart control element by depressing one or more keys on a remote control device. In response to selection of the restart control element the selected program being displayed in progress in the enlarged view may be started from the beginning of the program using an automatic recording of the program. The enlarged view may occupy an entire screen of the display device. In some embodiments when the selected program is enlarged other windows are not visible.

At the time T a user may select to restart a selected program from the beginning. In one embodiment in response to receiving the user selection a recording of the program may be searched starting at time T and moving backward through the recording until the start of program marker is found. In another embodiment a start of program marker is an address of a memory location where a stored program starts. In such an embodiment when the restart selection is received the address of the start of program marker may be retrieved to determine the memory location where the stored content of the program begins. The recording of the program can then be replayed starting from the beginning of the program. Meanwhile the recording of the program at time Tand thereafter continues.

As illustrated in the various tiers communicate with each other via the private network and the public network . For instance the client facing tier can communicate with the application tier and the acquisition tier via the private network . The application tier can communicate with the acquisition tier via the private network . Further the application tier can communicate with the acquisition tier and the operations and management tier via the public network . Moreover the acquisition tier can communicate with the operations and management tier via the public network . In a particular embodiment elements of the application tier including but not limited to a client gateway can communicate directly with the client facing tier .

The client facing tier can communicate with user equipment via an access network such as an Internet Protocol Television IPTV access network. In an illustrative embodiment customer premises equipment CPE can be coupled to a local switch router or other device of the access network . The client facing tier can communicate with a first representative set top box device via the first CPE and with a second representative set top box device via the second CPE . In a particular embodiment the first representative set top box device and the first CPE can be located at a first customer premise and the second representative set top box device and the second CPE can be located at a second customer premise. In another particular embodiment the first representative set top box device and the second representative set top box device can be located at a single customer premise both coupled to one of the CPE .

The CPE can include routers local area network devices modems such as digital subscriber line DSL modems or any other suitable devices for facilitating communication between a set top box device the access network or any combination thereof. In an exemplary embodiment the client facing tier can be coupled to the CPE via fiber optic cables. In another exemplary embodiment the CPE can be digital subscriber line DSL modems that are coupled to one or more network nodes via twisted pairs and the client facing tier can be coupled to the network nodes via fiber optic cables. Each set top box device can process data received via the access network via an IPTV software platform such as Microsoft TV IPTV Edition.

The first set top box device can be coupled to a first external display device such as a first television monitor and the second set top box device can be coupled to a second external display device such as a second television monitor . Moreover the first set top box device can communicate with a first remote control and the second set top box device can communicate with a second remote control . The set top box devices can include IPTV set top box devices video gaming devices or consoles that are adapted to receive IPTV content personal computers or other computing devices that are adapted to emulate set top box device functionalities any other device adapted to receive IPTV content and transmit data to an IPTV system via an access network or any combination thereof.

In an exemplary non limiting embodiment each set top box device can receive data video or any combination thereof from the client facing tier via the access network and render or display the data video or any combination thereof at the display device to which it is coupled. In an illustrative embodiment the set top box devices can include tuners that receive and decode television programming signals or packet streams for transmission to the display devices . Further the set top box devices can include a STB processor and a STB memory device that is accessible to the STB processor . In one embodiment a computer program such as the STB computer program can be embedded within the STB memory device .

In an illustrative embodiment the client facing tier can include a client facing tier CFT switch that manages communication between the client facing tier and the access network and between the client facing tier and the private network . As illustrated the CFT switch is coupled to one or more data servers such as D servers that store format encode replicate or otherwise manipulate or prepare video content for communication from the client facing tier to the set top box devices . The CFT switch can also be coupled to a terminal server that provides terminal devices with a connection point to the private network . In a particular embodiment the CFT switch can be coupled to a video on demand VOD server that stores or provides VOD content imported by the IPTV system . Further the CFT switch is coupled to one or more video servers that send the video content to the set top box devices via the access network . In a particular embodiment the CFT switch can be coupled to a video on demand VOD server that stores or provides VOD content imported by the IPTV system . Further the CFT switch is coupled to one or more multicast video servers that receive video content and multicast the video content to the set top box devices via the access network .

In an illustrative embodiment the client facing tier can communicate with a large number of set top box devices via the access network such as the representative set top box devices over a wide geographic area such as a neighborhood area a metropolitan area a viewing area a statewide area a regional area a nationwide area or any other suitable geographic area market area or subscriber or customer group that can be supported by networking the client facing tier to numerous set top box devices. In a particular embodiment the CFT switch or any portion thereof can include a multicast router or switch that communicates with multiple set top box devices via a multicast enabled network.

As illustrated in the application tier can communicate with both the private network and the public network . The application tier can include a first application tier APP switch and a second APP switch . In a particular embodiment the first APP switch can be coupled to the second APP switch . The first APP switch can be coupled to an application server and to an operation systems and support OSS billing systems and support B SS gateway . In a particular embodiment the application server can provide applications to the set top box devices via the access network which enable the set top box devices to provide functions such as interactive electronic program guides video gaming display messaging processing of VOD material and other IPTV content etc. In a particular embodiment the OSS BSS gateway includes operation systems and support OSS data as well as billing systems and support BSS data. In one embodiment the OSS BSS gateway can provide or restrict access to an OSS BSS server that stores operations and billing systems data.

The second APP switch can be coupled to a domain controller that provides Internet access for example to users at their computers via the public network . For example the domain controller can provide remote Internet access to IPTV account information e mail personalized Internet services or other online services via the public network . In addition the second APP switch can be coupled to a subscriber and system store that includes account information such as account information that is associated with users who access the IPTV system via the private network or the public network . In an illustrative embodiment the subscriber and system store can store subscriber or customer data and create subscriber or customer profiles that are associated with IP addresses stock keeping unit SKU numbers other identifiers or any combination thereof of corresponding set top box devices . Further the second APP switch can be coupled to a communication server that communicates with a wireless phone via a data network and a wireless access point .

In a particular embodiment the application tier can include a client gateway that communicates data directly to the client facing tier . In this embodiment the client gateway can be coupled directly to the CFT switch . The client gateway can provide user access to the private network and the tiers coupled thereto. In an illustrative embodiment the set top box devices or other devices coupled to the CPE can access the IPTV system via the access network using information received from the client gateway . User devices can access the client gateway via the access network and the client gateway can allow such devices to access the private network once the devices are authenticated or verified. Similarly the client gateway can prevent unauthorized devices such as hacker computers or stolen set top box devices from accessing the private network by denying access to these devices beyond the access network .

For example when the first representative set top box device accesses the client facing tier via the access network the client gateway can verify subscriber information by communicating with the subscriber and system store via the private network . Further the client gateway can verify billing information and status by communicating with the OSS BSS gateway via the private network . In one embodiment the OSS BSS gateway can transmit a query via the public network to the OSS BSS server . After the client gateway confirms subscriber and or billing information the client gateway can allow the set top box device to access IPTV content and VOD content at the client facing tier . If the client gateway cannot verify subscriber information for the set top box device e.g. because it is connected to an unauthorized twisted pair the client gateway can block transmissions to and from the set top box device beyond the access network .

As indicated in the acquisition tier includes an acquisition tier AQT switch that communicates with the private network . The AQT switch can also communicate with the operations and management tier via the public network . In a particular embodiment the AQT switch can be coupled to a live acquisition server that receives or acquires television content movie content advertisement content other video content or any combination thereof from a broadcast service such as a satellite acquisition system or satellite head end office. In a particular embodiment the live acquisition server can transmit content to the AQT switch and the AQT switch can transmit the content to the CFT switch via the private network .

In an illustrative embodiment content can be transmitted to the D servers where it can be encoded formatted stored replicated or otherwise manipulated and prepared for communication from the video server s to the set top box devices . The CFT switch can receive content from the video server s and communicate the content to the CPE via the access network . The set top box devices can receive the content via the CPE and can transmit the content to the television monitors . In an illustrative embodiment video or audio portions of the content can be streamed to the set top box devices .

The client facing tier may deliver channels of programs through CFT switch . An electronic program guide EPG of client facing tier can be downloaded to a plurality of set top boxes . For example an EPG stored at the set top box may be downloaded from the client facing tier . The set top box may transmit to the client facing tier the list of favorite channels which may be stored at the client facing tier as a favorite channels list . Additionally the set top box may store a list of favorite channels .

In some embodiments the client facing tier includes a channel recorder to record the content of programs of favorite channels. The recorded content of programs of favorite channels may be stored in a memory . Start of program markers can also be inserted into the recorded content of programs at the start of the programs. The position in the recording where the start of program marker is inserted may be determined from a starting time provided by the EPG . In other embodiments the set top box has a channel recorder to record content of programs of favorite channels. The position in a recording where a start of program marker is to be inserted may be determined from the EPG . In some embodiments rather than insert a start of program marker into the recording the address of the memory location where the program starts is tracked. Then when a program is selected the starting address of the selected program may be retrieved to locate the position in memory where the selected program starts.

In some embodiments the client facing tier provides a control element that is inserted into a video stream to be displayed at the TV monitor . When the user selects the displayed control element a selected program may be played from the beginning of the program. In other embodiments the set top box may include the control element that is displayed at the TV monitor .

Thus in one embodiment the recording of favorite channels occurs automatically in the client facing tier and in another embodiment the recording of favorite channels occurs automatically at the set top box or in a DVR connected to the set top box .

The AQT switch can be coupled to a video on demand importer server that receives and stores television or movie content received at the acquisition tier and communicates the stored content to the VOD server at the client facing tier via the private network . Additionally at the acquisition tier the video on demand VOD importer server can receive content from one or more VOD sources outside the IPTV system such as movie studios and programmers of non live content. The VOD importer server can transmit the VOD content to the AQT switch and the AQT switch in turn can communicate the material to the CFT switch via the private network . The VOD content can be stored at one or more servers such as the VOD server .

When users issue requests for VOD content via the set top box devices the requests can be transmitted over the access network to the VOD server via the CFT switch . Upon receiving such requests the VOD server can retrieve the requested VOD content and transmit the content to the set top box devices across the access network via the CFT switch . The set top box devices can transmit the VOD content to the television monitors . In an illustrative embodiment video or audio portions of VOD content can be streamed to the set top box devices .

In an illustrative embodiment the live acquisition server can transmit content to the AQT switch and the AQT switch in turn can transmit the content to the OMT switch via the public network . In this embodiment the OMT switch can transmit the content to the TV2 server for display to users accessing the user interface at the TV2 server .

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executed by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable storage medium such as the memory that includes instructions such as the set top box computer program to cause the processor to perform various functions. These functions may include presenting content of a first program of a first channel for display at a first window at a display device and presenting content of a second program of a second channel for display at a second window at the display device. The functions may also include automatically recording the first program and the second program while the first and second programs are in progress. The functions may also include presenting for display a start of program option where selection of the start of program option causes a recording of a particular program in progress to be displayed from a beginning of the particular program in progress. In an alternative embodiment these functions may be performed by a processor according to computer instructions stored in the computer readable memory of the client facing tier .

In some embodiments therefore the computer readable storage medium includes instructions to cause the processor e.g. processor or to automatically store a recording of each of two or more channels without receiving a selection to record the programs from a user. The computer readable storage medium may also include instructions to cause the processor to automatically store a recording of each of the first and second programs in a memory e.g. memory . The computer readable storage medium may further include instructions to cause the processor to retrieve program content from a storage location that is remote from the display device . The computer readable storage medium may also include instructions to cause the processor to display a selected program from a beginning of the selected program. Instructions included in the computer readable storage medium may further cause the processor to access an electronic program guide to determine a beginning time of a selected program. Instructions may further cause the processor to cause a selected program to be displayed in an enlarged window. Instructions may also cause the processor to cease display of an unselected program when a particular program in progress begins to be replayed from the beginning. Some or all of these functions may be performed at a set top box or at a network server or both.

While the computer readable storage medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable storage medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable storage medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory RAM or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable storage medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device.

In accordance with various embodiments the methods described herein may be implemented as one or more software programs running on a computer processor. Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Furthermore alternative software implementations including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

It should also be noted that software that implements the disclosed methods may optionally be stored on a tangible storage medium such as a magnetic medium such as a disk or tape a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or a solid state medium such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include a tangible storage medium as listed herein and other equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols embodiments are not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for television e.g. NTSC ATSC the Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the scope of the claims.

