---

title: Reclining seat to mitigate the effects of mine blast load on spine and lower leg injuries
abstract: A seat assembly reclines during an under-vehicle explosion or other upward impact on the vehicle to mitigate spinal and lower leg damage to a human occupant. The seat assembly has a back frame portion and a lower frame portion. The lower frame portion has a pivotal connection with an energy absorbing mechanism mounted to the vehicle floor. The pivotal connection includes a stop mechanism to prevent seat assembly tilt during normal vehicle operation but allow tilt due to an explosion. A second mechanism is disposed between the back frame portion and the floor; this mechanism controls the seat assembly pivot and provides further absorbing of energy from the upward impact. Projections from the front of the lower frame portion toward the floor can be used to enhance seat assembly pivoting; specially designed seat engagement levers can be used for this purpose as well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527413&OS=09527413&RS=09527413
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09527413
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131112
---
The invention described herein may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to us.

The invention herein relates to the structure of seats in vehicles wherein the seats are designed to protect their occupants from violent impacts to the vehicle by means of energy absorbing devices incorporated into the seat structure. The invention more particularly relates to seats that pivot or otherwise move in reaction to the violent impacts so as to enhance occupant protection.

In U.S. Pat. No. 8 087 729 B2 to Kladde FIG. 7 in light of FIGS. 57 and 58 shows a seat that pivots on a number of axes Kladde also shows a shock absorber connected between the back rest of the seat and the floor of the compartment where the seat is installed. European Patent EP 0834271 B1 to Bieselt at FIG. 1 shows a chair whose seat pan and back rest tilt backward wherein a coil spring resists tilting and biases the chair toward an upright position. U.S. Pat. No. 4 790 595 to Hensel et al. shows a pivoting seat where the pivot axis is located at the front edge of the seat pan. European Patent EP 0799741 to Gimbel shows a seat pivoted at the front edge of the seat pan there being a coil torsion spring to resist tilting motion. U.S. Pat. No. 7 878 312 to Chen et al. shows an energy absorbing mechanism underneath a seat. U.S. Pat. No. 5 082 311 to Melotik shows a pin and slot feature at FIG. 4 wherein a pin forced along a slot narrower than the pin s diameter so as to deform a narrow strip of metal in a collapsible steering column assembly wherein impact energy is absorbed by the strip. A modified pin and slot feature preferably having a detent is incorporated into our seat assembly to control the assembly s pivoting.

The invention is a seat assembly and associated structure in a vehicle which reduces or eliminates damage to the spinal columns and lower legs of vehicle occupants when land mines or like munitions detonate beneath the vehicle or when other upward impacts on the vehicle occur. The seat assembly reclines under the influence of an upward impact so that the occupant s spinal column is also reclined and thus is better able to tolerate the impact. The seat assembly is constructed so that the occupant s feet are lifted from the floor in the event of an under vehicle explosion whereby the sudden rise of the floor relative to the rest of the vehicle does not jolt the feet and cause injury to the lower limbs of the occupant. The seat assembly includes a seat assembly frame having a lower frame portion fixed to a back frame portion. A shock absorber or other mechanism for absorbing energy supports the seat assembly on the vehicle floor. A pivotal connection between the lower frame portion and the shock absorber is disposed near the front edge of the lower frame portion. A stop mechanism is incorporated in the pivotal connection for preventing tilting of the seat assembly when less than a predetermined amount of tilting force acts on the seat assembly whereby the seat assembly tilts when an under vehicle explosion occurs but does not tilt during normal vehicle operation. In a second embodiment of our seat assembly a projection extends down toward the floor from the front edge of the lower frame portion of the seat assembly frame. The projection engages a zone of the floor that rises faster than the rest of the floor during an under vehicle explosion and accelerates the tilting of the seat assembly. The accelerated tilting by the protrusion is enhanced as the seat assembly compresses the energy absorbing mechanism and lowers toward the vehicle floor. In a third embodiment of the seat assembly the protrusion is replaced by a dog leg lever pivoted on the floor beneath the assembly. The lever has one leg that engages the faster rising zone of the floor and another leg that pulls on a strut extending from the back frame portion of the seat assembly. Due to the lever s operation the faster rising zone imparts a pivoting force to the seat assembly.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material dimension characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

For a vehicle and a system mounted on or used in connection with the vehicle forward reverse longitudinal and vertical up down directions are generally relative to the vehicle and system as typically operated e.g. when the vehicle is operated with the respective powertrain in a forward reverse mode . As such lateral left right directions are generally perpendicular to the longitudinal vertical plane and are referenced from a vehicle operator e.g. driver perspective. A first direction e.g. forward and a second direction e.g. rearward or reverse where the second direction substantially but not necessarily wholly opposes the first direction are also generally or used in connection with the vehicle. Likewise elements located mounted positioned placed installed etc. on near or proximate to the vehicle body are generally referred to as inner while elements that are distal or more remote to the vehicle body are generally referred to as outer unless otherwise noted. As such inner elements are generally closer to the vehicle body than outer elements. Unless otherwise stated a vehicle is presumed to be standing on a horizontal surface and vehicle components such as a body panel or window that are vertically oriented are disposed normal to the horizontal surface. Likewise the vertical or a vertical plane refers to a plane normal to the horizontal surface upon which the vehicle rests.

In is shown a seat assembly having a generally L shaped frame having a lower portion and a back portion these portions are preferably rigid and fixed relative to one another so that the occupant s feet and legs are lifted when seat assembly reclines. Attached to lower portion is a bottom cushion and attached to back portion is a back cushion . The seat assembly is mounted to and supported on vehicle floor by a collapsible energy absorbing mechanism such as a spring loaded cylinder or other type of shock absorber this shock absorbing mechanism is the primary means by which energy of vertical force components from under vehicle explosions is absorbed. The seat assembly has a seat pivotal connection to shock absorber at or near the front edge of frame details of this connection being shown in . A shock absorbing strut is connected between the rear of frame and floor strut typically a being a spring loaded cylinder. Strut provides a controlled resistance and slowing of the pivoting of seat assembly . Strut also is a secondary means to absorb energy of vertical force components from under vehicle explosions and preferably is less resistant to compression than is shock absorber . Neither shock absorber nor strut needs to be a spring and damper arrangement but can alternately be brackets that yield plastically or wires or rods that bend to take up mechanical energy in some cases plastically deformable elements may preferred to spring and damper arrangements. The human occupant of the seat assembly is shown in dashed lines as is a backpack worn by the occupant. Backpack is typically a camel back water carrier but can be another type of container or personal equipment of the occupant. The occupant is in a forward or upright seating position as is normal for occupants of military vehicles as opposed to a slightly reclining position normal for civilian passenger vehicles. Preferably in the embodiment the combined center of gravity of the occupant and the backpack is rearward of pivotal connection by this arrangement when floor is accelerated by an under vehicle explosive blast or other upward impact the inertia of the occupant s mass will cause seat assembly to swing clockwise about the axis of pivotal connection as viewed in .

The pivotal connection between shock absorber and frame is shown in wherein a rounded plate like dog is affixed to the top of shock absorber . A lock finger protrudes from one side of dog and a bore is defined through the dog. A complementary plate like dog is affixed to a frame cross member cross member typically being attached to frame in the same fashion as cross member in . As best seen in dog has a through bore that axially aligns with bore of dog . A partly threaded pin passes through bores and the threaded portion located at one end of the pin s shaft where nut fastens to the pin. The potions of the pin s shaft within the bores are smooth and journal with the bores. Encircling the portion of pin between dogs and is a torsion spring which resists pivoting of seat assembly in a backward direction or a clockwise direction in . Spring engages posts and on dogs and respectively.

Finger passes through an opening comprised of aperture and slot the aperture being at one end of arcuate slot . Aperture is preferably circular in shape to accommodate finger and has a diameter or width greater than cross width t of slot . An enlarged view of slot is shown in with an annular space between finger and aperture the fit between finger and the aperture is actually preferred to be close. The annular gap is shown for illustrative purposes to enable a viewer to more easily distinguish finger from aperture . The diameter or width of finger is greater than the cross width t of slot so that finger remains in aperture unless a predetermined sufficient tilting force is exerted seat assembly . If such a sufficient tilting force acts on assembly then finger is forced it to travel along slot . As finger travels along the slot the slot is deformed and provides resistance to the travel. The combination of finger aperture and slot comprise a stop mechanism that prevents seat assembly from tilting about pivotal connection during normal operation of a vehicle where assembly is installed thus as the vehicle traverses over terrain seat assembly will not swing back and forth. However should a land mine explode under the vehicle the upward blast force component will create a pivotal force on seat assembly such that finger will be forced to travel along slot . It will be noted that the thickness t of the slot need not be constant but can be varied along the slot s length to provide a programmed resistance to the tilting of seat assembly .

Typically portions of a vehicle floor rise relative to the rest of the vehicle as a result of under vehicle explosions and the floor rise contributes to lower limb injuries of personnel in the vehicle. To address this problem it may be preferred that the pivoting of seat assembly be completed relatively quickly before shock absorber is fully compressed or before the shock absorber is compressed by a chosen percentage of its total compression distance. The resistance to the seat assembly s pivot provided by pivotal connection and strut can be controlled accordingly by the design of these elements. The advantage of the relatively quick pivoting of seat assembly is that the occupant s legs and feet will be swung upward before vehicle floor imparts force from an under vehicle blast to the occupant s feet so that the occupant s feet and legs are less likely to be injured.

In is shown a second embodiment of our invention which is the same as the first embodiment but has two modifications thereto. In seat assembly has a generally L shaped frame to which is attached a bottom cushion and a back cushion . The seat assembly is mounted to vehicle floor on an energy absorbing mechanism such as shock absorber . The seat assembly has a pivotal connection to shock absorber wherein the pivotal connection and shock absorber are disposed underneath a central region of bottom cushion . A shock absorbing strut is connected between the rear of frame and floor strut and its connections being similar to what is shown in the first embodiment.

The first modification is that pivotal connection is more remote from front edge of frame than pivotal connection is from front edge of frame in the first embodiment. It is recognized that having pivotal connection more rearward or remote from the front edge of the L shaped frame may slow pivoting of the seat assembly as influenced by the occupant s center of gravity. However such a location of pivotal connection still allows the occupant s center of gravity to cause pivoting of assembly and such a location of pivotal connection may be advantageous in light of overall design considerations when constructing the cabin area of a military vehicle.

The second modification is used to enhance the pivoting of seat assembly the second modification being a protrusion extending downward from the front of frame . The protrusion can be one or more posts extending from edge toward floor or posts extending from floor toward edge or similar structures. In the protrusion takes the form of a U shaped channel fastened to the front edge of frame . Channel has two vertically oriented legs and a lower channel portion connected therebetween and rubber grommets or other elastomeric bodies are disposed between channel portion and floor . Grommets can be eliminated so that there is a gap between lower channel portion and floor or channel member can be disposed on the floor so that the protrusion extends the entire span between edge and floor .

As alluded to previously during an under vehicle explosion the vehicle floor rises relative to the rest of the vehicle. In many cases the rise of the vehicle floor in front of vehicle occupant seats rises more than does the floor beneath the vehicle seats such a phenomenon commonly occurs where there are side facing seat assemblies in rear compartments of some military vehicles. In any case depending on the exact location of an under vehicle explosion the section of the vehicle floor directly in front of a seat assembly can rise faster than the portion of the floor immediately below the seat assembly. Thus in vehicle floor portion directly in front of seat assembly can rise more quickly than vehicle floor portion immediately below the seat assembly as the result of an under vehicle explosion. In this situation floor section will raise channel or other equivalent protrusion whereby seat assembly is tilted backward or clockwise in . Also in this situation as shock absorber is compressed channel holds up the front of the seat assembly while allowing the back of the seat assembly to lower whereby the tilting motion of assembly is enhanced. It should be noted that the foregoing tilting effects caused by channel are in addition to and independent of the tilting effect caused by the occupant s center of gravity.

In is shown a third embodiment of our invention which again is the same as the first embodiment aside from the two modifications now described. In seat assembly has a generally L shaped seat frame to which is attached a bottom cushion and a back cushion . The seat assembly is mounted to vehicle floor on shock absorber . The seat assembly has a pivotal connection in all respects the same as pivotal connection to shock absorber at or near the front edge of frame . The first modification in the embodiment is the addition of a recline assist feature not featured in the first embodiment. The recline assist feature comprises a frame disposed under seat assembly the frame having two dog leg levers wherein each lever has a foreleg and an aft leg . Frame is pivotally connected to floor at a pivot connection at block which is located behind shock absorber and under a central region of bottom cushion . Forelegs extend from the pivot block to a point forward of shock absorber and forward of front edge of seat frame . The free ends of forelegs are disposed over a zone of the floor immediately in front of seat assembly and the forelegs can extend further forward along zone than is shown in if desired for a particular application. Optionally a rubber grommet or other elastomeric body can be placed between the free ends of forelegs and floor zone or else the free ends can be in contact with zone . Preferably transverse members are affixed between forelegs such that frame is a rigid structure. Aft legs extend from forelegs there being apertures at the region of frame where the forelegs and aft legs meet. Pivot pins See . pass through apertures and through blocks so as to create a rocking or pivoting connection of the dog leg levers with blocks .

Seat assembly includes shock absorbing struts generally similar in construction to strut struts are pivotably connected in any suitable conventional fashion between the rear of frame and aft legs struts typically being spring loaded cylinders. As with strut struts need not have a spring and damper construction but can alternately be brackets that yield plastically or wires or rods that bend to take up mechanical energy. The second modification to the embodiment is that struts are in tension during normal vehicle operation before an under vehicle explosion occurs. Thus were it not for the stop mechanism in pivotal connection which is similar to the stop mechanism in pivotal connection seat assembly would pivot backward or clockwise as seen in .

When an under vehicle explosion occurs seat assembly will swing or pivot backwards due to two independent phenomena. One phenomenon is the effect of the occupant s weight on seat assembly . As a result of the explosion the vehicle will rise suddenly and consequently seat assembly will rise as well whereby the occupant s weight or inertia will create a downward force vector relative to assembly . This force vector will cause assembly to pivot backward such that the occupant is in a reclined position and the occupant s feet are lifted off floor . The second phenomenon also occurs as a result of the explosion namely floor will buckle upward such that the floor or at least portions thereof will rise faster than the rest of the vehicle. In many cases and perhaps in the majority of cases zone of the floor will rise faster and further than the rest of the floor and will create an upward force on forelegs of dog leg frame . The upward force pivots frame and causes the frame to pull struts downward so as to pivot seat assembly backward to a reclined position.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

