---

title: Audio-video remote visitation telecommunications technology
abstract: A telecommunications system for use in a secure facility such as a jail, prison or the like. The systems, devices and methods disclosed provide telecommunications, email, other messaging, financial services, vending, and commissary or canteen services for inmates of a secure facility with respect to family, friends and others. The system also includes a system for video visitation via audio-visual communication. The system includes a phone server adapted to be communicatively connected to an external service provider; a monitoring station communicatively connected to the phone server; an account manager server communicatively connected to the phone server, and at least one telecommunications device disposed at the secure facility for use by the inmate and which is communicatively connected to the phone server. A method of telecommunicating, including video visitation, via the system is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288439&OS=09288439&RS=09288439
owner: TW Vending, Inc.
number: 09288439
owner_city: Hudson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 848 148 filed Dec. 21 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the US Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to telecommunications systems apparatus and methods. Particularly the invention relates to a telecommunications system for use in a secure facility such as a jail prison or the like. Most particularly the invention provides audio visual telecommunications services for inmates of a secure facility with respect to family friends and others.

All US patents and patent applications and all other published documents mentioned anywhere in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention provides a telecommunications apparatus and methods which are practical reliable secure accurate and efficient and which are believed to constitute an improvement over the background technology.

In one aspect the invention relates to systems devices and methods for providing telecommunications audio visual communication and visitation email other messaging financial services vending and commissary or canteen services for inmates of a secure facility with respect to family friends and others.

In one aspect the invention provides a system for providing telecommunications between a resident inside a secure facility and at least one person outside the secure facility and for management of such telecommunications by an administrator of the secure facility comprising a phone server adapted to be communicatively connected to an external service provider a monitoring station communicatively connected to the phone server an account manager server communicatively connected to the phone server and at least one telecommunications device disposed at the secure facility for use by the resident and being communicatively connected to the phone server.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for telecommunicating between a resident inside a secure facility and at least one person outside the secure facility and for management of such telecommunication by an administrator of the secure facility comprising the step of making an incoming voice call from at least one person outside the secure facility to the resident inside the secure facility.

The secure facility is an institution such as a jail a detention center a short term corrections facility a penitentiary a prison and a mental health institution. The resident is a person such as an inmate a prisoner and a patient. The administrator is a person such as a sheriff an officer a guard a warden a jailer and a mental health worker. The at least one person outside the secure facility is a person such as a family member a friend an acquaintance and an attorney. The telecommunications between the resident of the secure facility and the at least one person outside the secure facility is a communication mode such as voice. SMS text IM email and or audio visual. Management of telecommunications is selected from the group of activities consisting of monitoring recording controlling and documenting communications and transactions of the resident. Controlling activities may involve call blocking blacklisting email notification section station setting attorney call status and or deferred call status. The at least one telecommunications device disposed at the secure facility is a device such as a land line telephone a mobile telephone a personal computer PC and a telecommunications kiosk. And the person outside the secure facility communicatively connects with the system by a device adapted to connect to the phone server selected from the group of devices consisting of a land line telephone a mobile telephone a smart phone a PC and a telecommunications kiosk.

The person outside the secure facility is further able to electronically deposit funds or credits to an account of the resident at the secure facility. The account funding products and services may be voice communications audio visual communications vending drink snacks and food items and commissary items such as personal care items books videos clothing and apparel and blankets. The administrator is further able to monitor audit and manage the account of the resident.

The present invention is believed to involve novel elements combined in novel ways to yield more than predictable results. The problems solved by the invention were not fully recognized in the prior art.

The aspects features advantages benefits and objects of the invention will become clear to those skilled in the art by reference to the following description claims and drawings.

The invention provides systems devices and methods for providing audio visual telecommunications for inmates of a secure facility i.e. a jail or prison with respect to family friends and others. The system optionally provides a Phone System email other messaging financial services vending and commissary or canteen services in the secure facility environment.

A preferred embodiment of the system of the invention uses VoIP to communicatively connect the Kiosks and staff hardware and users of PCs land line telephones and mobile phones and other mobile devices such as smart phones . VoIP stands for Voice over IP or voice over Internet Protocol. It encompasses the communication protocols technologies methodologies and transmission techniques involved in the delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet Protocol IP networks such as the Internet . Internet telephony refers to communications services voice SMS and or voice messaging applications that are transported via the Internet rather than the public switched telephone network PSTN . The steps involved in originating an outgoing VoIP telephone call are signaling and media channel setup digitization of the analog voice signal encoding packetization and transmission as Internet Protocol IP packets over a packet switched network. On the receiving or incoming side similar steps usually in the reverse order such as reception of the IP packets decoding of the packets and digital to analog conversion reproduce the original voice stream. Even though IP telephony and VoIP are used interchangeably IP telephony refers to all use of IP protocols for voice communication by digital telephony systems while VoIP is one technology used by IP telephony to transport phone calls. VoIP systems employ session control protocols to control the set up and tear down of calls as well as audio codecs which encode speech allowing transmission over an IP network as digital audio via an audio stream. The choice of codec varies between different implementations of VoIP depending on application requirements and network bandwidth some implementations rely on narrowband and compressed speech while others support high fidelity stereo codecs. Some popular codecs include u law and a law versions of G.711 G.722 which is a high fidelity codec marketed as HD Voice by Polycom a popular open source voice codec known as iLBC a codec that only uses 8 Kbit s each way called G.729 and many others. VoIP is available on many smart phones and Internet devices so that users of portable devices that are not phones may place calls or send SMS text messages over 3G or Wi Fi.

The system of the invention is described below first in terms of its telephone or phone aspects in Section 1 and and then with respect to its audio visual or video visitation aspects in Section 2 and .

Referring to an embodiment of the phone system of the invention comprises a Phone Server a telephony switch which is connected to a Service Provider . The Service Provider is any provider with Session Initiated Protocol SIP capability. The Phone Server negotiates SIP communication between various SIP endpoints. It handles call permissions as well as charging recording and monitoring. The Phone Server is communicatively connected to a Monitoring Station which requests recorded and live streams from the Phone Server . Based on a request the monitoring station has the ability to pause fast forward and rewind the recorded stream as well as to stop a live call in progress. It also enables calling rules. The Phone Server is also communicatively connected to an Account Manager Server . The account manager provides a means for the telephones to know the details of the caller and the person or entity being called. A most preferred example of the account manager server is a Team Server provided by Team Software of Hudson Wis. USA. However the account manager server can be any server that handles TCP IP protocols over any IP network. The Phone Server and Account Manager Server are communicatively connected to the Inmate Kiosk s or other devices inside the jail or other facility. Such other devices include traditional inmate telephones and mobile or hand held devices inside the secure facility or jail. The Phone Server is also communicatively connected to the telephones and devices outside the facility.

Significantly the system of the invention provides a means of receiving an incoming call to the inmate in the facility from a person outside. Referring to a preferred embodiment of an incoming call process of the invention involves first receiving a call request and then determining whether the outside caller is requesting support. If so then the call is transferred to a help line. If not the user is prompted to dial or otherwise input an extension for the inmate. Users may first obtain an inmate extension as well as a PIN number by utilizing the inmatecantee.com process shown in . Next the system determines if the extension is valid. If not then the caller has an opportunity to enter another extension by another prompt . If valid the system inquires of the PIN and checks whether it is valid. If the PIN is not entered correctly the user again has an opportunity to correct. If the PIN is correct the next step is to find the Inmate s location and a list of phone devices in the inmate s POD jail location . Phone devices may include but are not limited to stand alone Kiosks traditional hand held telephone devices and the like. The system then determines whether the caller is a registered attorney. If the user is a registered attorney again signed up at the inmatecanteen.com system of the conversation is private and a reduced rate may apply. If not the system verifies that the user has sufficient funds to place the call funds are deposited via inmatecanteen.com . Maximum call time is calculated based on caller funds and at a predetermined time for example the 1 minute 30 second remaining mark of the call a blocking prompt is played warning the user that they are about to run out of call minutes. Initially or at any time later inmate rules may be processed. Such rules may include but are not limited to inmate blacklisting section pod blacklisting email call notifications and approved calling hours. If a call or call event or time fails a rule the call is transferred to a voicemail system. If all rules or some rules are met a call record is created recording begins unless attorney or other call and the registered device is dialed. Recordings are processed in GSM format. Both sides of the stream are included in the recording. The next step is to wait for an answer. If the inmate answers the attorney rule is checked and if positive the charging process begins. If the inmate does not answer the call may be transferred to a voicemail system.

Additional administrator control functions and user interfaces therefor are shown in . illustrates a Close Inmate Account screen . shows an Assign Inmate Smart Card screen . discloses a Discipline Inmate Account interface . illustrates an Edit Inmate Account screen . shows an Inmate Requests Old screen . shows a View Inmate Canteen Order screen . shows a Bank Deposit interface . shows a Deposit To Vendor screen . shows a Pay Vendor user interface . shows a Batch Order screen . shows a Manage Site Canteen System interface . shows a Manage Warehouse screen . discloses a Manage Warehouse Order System user interface .

The descriptions above and the accompanying materials should be interpreted in the illustrative and not the limited sense. While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiment or embodiments thereof it should be understood that there may be other embodiments which fall within the scope of the invention.

