---

title: Assemblable module charge system
abstract: The assemblable module charge system includes a set of quadrant panels, where an individual quadrant panel is a fractional component of a cylindrical wall having a plurality of external longitudinal parallel rails separated by channels. The fractional cylindrical wall has a sectional length with fastening side edges. The set of panels may be stored as a flat-pack and assembled into a single module. The volume of the flat-pack is less than half the volume of the assembled module. The flat-pack is a group of unassembled quadrant panels nested to minimize space. The system uses elongate slides that may be frictionally positioned in channels shared by the module and a charge system. The charge system is a prepackaged explosive that may be fastened to the assembled module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09074855&OS=09074855&RS=09074855
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09074855
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131011
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates generally to explosive tools and more particularly to an assemblable module charge system of explosive tools that condenses the complexity size and weight of available multiple explosives and explosive tools into the assemblable module charge system.

The US Army s special operations forces have performed demolition operations dating back to pre World War II using bulk explosives and non standard improvised methods. Soldiers have used materials found in the field such as junk yard scrap glass champagne bottle bottoms and steel plates and molded the explosive to them in an attempt to increase the efficiency of the charges for specialized missions. Since the advent of munitions incorporating explosively formed penetrators and projectiles EFPs as warheads the special operations forces have learned to build demolition charges using this technology. Often times through trial and error the mission succeeded using the improvised demolition charges to neutralize the target. However improvised EFPs are rarely optimized nor do they have consistent and reliable performance because of the variability in materials and building techniques employed.

To overcome some of these deficiencies demolition kits have been developed for the Navy and the Army operations. Typically a kit has included a collection of inert metal and plastic parts and commercially available items that give soldiers a wide selection of warheads and attachment devices which can be tailored to neutralize a specific target. Many kits have various warheads at least three sizes of conical shaped charges and four sizes of linear shaped charges where the relative dimensions stay about the same but the size is just increased. As the kits have evolved to have greater capabilities so has the weight. The warheads which are provided have a pre set configuration that contains all materials except the explosive. The explosive still has to be packed into the warheads. Currently the demolition kit also has inert components to tailor make various explosive charges and devices to attach or aim these charges at the target.

In the last friendly area near the mission jump off site the user will select the proper sized warheads and hand pack the warheads with a moldable explosive. The armed warheads are manually carried in a backpack to the target site.

The disclosed invention in one aspect is an assemblable module charge system AMCS that is uniquely suitable to be utilized in dismounted operations particularly explosive ordnance disposal operations where dismounted operations require potentially everything to be manually carried for instance in a backpack. It is anticipated that there are no particular size limitations but that some sizes are more easily handled without mechanical assistance either for larger or smaller modular charge systems. The invented system enables a relatively small suit of devices to allow assembly of multiple types of charges including shape charges SC explosively formed projectiles EFPs explosively driven flyer plates FPs contact charges CC linear shape charges LSC strip charges STRPC and other explosive tools such as those employed to breach an obstacle. The invented system condenses and consolidates the capabilities available from multiple explosives and explosive tools into a substantially relatively lightweight suit of devices which is suitable for dismounted operations.

The assemblable module charge system includes an assemblable module which may be assembled in the field. The assemblable module may be fitted with a flying plate a liner or other hardware and may be axially coupled to other modules therein configuring the size and type of charge. The assemblable module in one exemplary embodiment is a set of quadrant panels where an individual quadrant panel is a fractional component of a cylindrical wall where the fractional cylindrical wall has a sectional length with fastening side edges. The set of panels are light enough to be manually carried and stored as a flat pack and assembled into the module where at least one of the two side edges of the quadrant panel is attached to a side edge of at least one adjacent panel. The flat pack is a group of unassembled quadrant panels where the panels are nested to minimize space. When assembled into a substantially cylindrical module the module occupies at least twice the volume of a flat pack having four panels.

Another exemplary aspect of the invention is a charge system that is a prepac where the prepac includes an explosive or combination of explosives prepackaged in a cylindrical retainer and rear plate. The prepac has a plurality of external longitudinal rails that align with the plurality of external longitudinal rails on the assembled module and elongate slides may be used to connect the prepac to the assembled module.

The aligned rails themselves serve as a sighting mechanism and additionally enable the mounting of various ancillary sighting devices and therefore various configurations of the assemblable module charge system may be effectively aimed. Examples of ancillary sighting devices include a gun sight front rear flip up scope sights on a Picatinny rail such as a Trijicon Tall Picatinny Rail Mount and using a stand such as a tripod where the stand has a sighting mechanism. The system enables substantially all of the several shape charge configurations to be held at a fixed distance from a target.

An important aspect of the invention is that for a given suit of tools where various liners igniters and other components are also considered tools the modules are standardized. Standardization includes size morphology and partitioning of the explosive therein to enable an assemblage of multiple types of charges to be configured to have a range of total weight of explosive even though the size of an individual assemblable module remains the same. Exemplary types of charges include shape charges SC explosively formed projectiles aka penetrators EFPs explosively driven flyer plates FPs contact charges CC for cutting linear shape charges LSC strip charges STRPC and multiple explosive types of charges for breaching obstacles.

The assemblable module may be modified in the field to have variations in the shape and the amount of the explosive so as to meet the needs for the mission.

In substantially all scenarios the modular system includes an access port for a shock tube blasting cap or other igniter where the access port is located in a quadrant panel of a flat pack or in a rear plate of a prepac.

The assemblable module charge system includes an assemblable module that may be assembled in the field. The assemblable module may be fitted with a flying plate a liner or other hardware and may be axially coupled to other modules therein configuring the size and type of charge. The assemblable module in one exemplary embodiment is a cylindrical casing having rails where the casing may be quickly assembled in the field from a set of quadrant panels. An individual quadrant panel is a fractional component of a cylindrical wall where the fractional cylindrical wall has a sectional length with fastening side edges. The set of panels are light enough that to be manually carried and stored as a flat pack and assembled into the module where at least one of the two side edges of the quadrant panel is attached to a side edge of at least one adjacent panel. The flat pack is a group of unassembled quadrant panels where the panels are nested to minimize space. When assembled into a substantially cylindrical module the module occupies at least twice the volume of a flat pack having four panels. In general assuming a constant wall thickness r outside r inside c the larger the assemblable module then the greater the percent savings in space achieved utilizing flat packs. The approximate volume of the flat pack is L r outside r inside and the volume percent of the flat pack compared to the the assembled module is about 1 r inside r outside 100 where is pi L is the length of the module r inside is the inside radius and r outside is the outside radius.

A flat pack is shown in . In the illustrated flat pack four panels are shown without any packaging. Flat packs may be carried in kits for special operations and a user s preference generally determines how the panels are bound. Other contents of the kit may influence a preference. For example a kit contain an explosive where the explosive has a plasticizer which could potentially weaken a packaging material like a plastic shrink wrap. Many kits have several types of pressure sensitive tape including polyimide PVC and duct tapes for fastening devices. A specific tape or band could be wrapped around the flat packs. Bands such as rubber bands and cable bands are often included and could be selected at the discretion of the user for the kit. is an expanded flat pack. Each of the illustrated panels has a fractional perimeter wall . Further each full rail includes multiple sides including an upper left side an upper right side. a left under side a right under side and a bottom that is contiguous with the fractional perimeter wall of the panel . In contrast to conventional rails which have a flat upper surface the upper left side and the upper right side of the rails are sloped. The upper left side and the upper right side intersect forming an apical edge on each whole rail . In stark contrast to spline like rails the left under side and the right under side of each of the casing s rails are undercut each under side forming a sloped undercut surface. The apical top edge is intrinsically a sighting device.

Individual panels have a pair of parallel straight sides contiguous with overlying partial rails . The partial rails are complementary such that when a side on one panel is fastened to an adjacent panel together the overlying partial rails form a whole rail . As with the full rails a pair of partial rails includes multiple sides including an upper left side a upper right side a left under side a right under side and a bottom which is contiguous with the fractional perimeter wall of the panel .

Additionally the partial rails generally have a pair of flat set back edges that frame a neck portion of a necked rod and a pair of matching flat set back edges that frame a slot portion of a slotted tubular channel where the slot portion receives the neck portion and the slotted tubular channel receives the necked rod as it is slid into side edge of an adjoining second quadrant panel. The surface of the set back edges has friction bumps that will snap into depressions on the surface of the set back edges when friction bumps are aligned with depressions . The depressions and bumps may be on either surface so long as they are opposing. Each panel has a front edge and a rear edge see top left panel 

Of the four panels illustrated in the center two panels are male male panels and the outer two panels are female female panels . A panel is termed a male male panel when both of the side edges have a necked rod and the panel is termed a female female panel when both of the side edges has a slotted tubular channel . Panels are joined by sliding the necked rod on one quadrant panel into the slotted tubular channel on side edge of an adjoining second quadrant panel. A male male panel only may be joined to a female female panel.

Another possible exemplary arrangement as illustrated in is a male female panel aka female male panel where one side edge has a slotted tubular channel and the other side edge has a necked rod . An advantage of the male female panel is that the cylindrical module may be assembled using any four male female panels whereas as shown in and using the male male panels and female female panels requires two of each type of panel.

The advantage of using two male male panels and two female female panels as shown in and is that in addition to assembling them into a cylindrical module the module also may be assembled as a linear charge where one of the female female panels is replaced with a common angle bar as shown in . The ends of the angle bar are lodged against the neck of the rod . In preparing the linear charge the assembled cylindrical module is filled with explosive. The angle bar is aligned with the female female panel and pushed in simultaneously cutting away a wedge of explosive and pushing out the female female panel as the bar is slid into position. Configuring the module into a linear charge using the common angle bar requires that the angle bar be lodged against the neck of the rods which extend from a pair of opposing panels.

As shown in the linear charge module has a three quarter pie shape explosive . A wedge of explosive has been removed. A male male quadrant panel has been removed from the module and there are only two slotted cylinders remaining. The module now has two female male panels and one female female panel . There are no necked rods against which the angle bar may abut or interlock only slotted tubular channels . The linear charge may still be used but the angle bar must be altered to simulate a necked rod. The edges of the ends of the angle bar have been bent and widened so that the angle bar may slide into the slotted tubular channel

A potentially more elegant solution is shown in . A prosthetic double rod extension is shown where the prosthetic extension includes two faux rods and connected by a common neck . In application one of the faux rods is slid into the slotted tubular channel converting the female side edge into a male side edge with a necked rod . There is no need to alter the angle rod . Additionally as shown the prosthetic double rod extension makes it possible to use a single type of panel in the flat pack a female male panel as any available slotted tubular channel may be filled with one of the faux rods of the extension . A weakness of this approach is that the explosive is usually packed into a cylindrical module and a wedge is cut away as the angled bar is slid into position replacing a female female panel. However this configuration would not be possible because in the illustrated exemplary embodiment a male male panel was removed. The double rod extension may still be used but the explosive would have to be packed in the linear charge after the prosthetic double rod extension and angle bar were added to create the faux necked rods.

Other applications are anticipated for example connecting female female panels together. Taken to the next level the flat packs may contain only female female panels and enough prosthetic double rod extensions to assemble them. As illustrated in a downside is that the friction bumps will not snap into depressions on the surface of the set back edges as there be a dearth of friction bump or depressions.

As illustrated in a single assemblable module is fitted with a charge system that is a prepac where the prepac includes an explosive or combination of explosives that is prepackaged in a cylindrical retainer and rear plate. A prepac having an explosive charge which includes primary explosive for example C4 where C4 more particularly is RDX a.k.a. cyclonite or cyclotrimethylene trinitramine . The weight balance of C4 includes a plasticizer a binder that is generally polyisobutylene and a small amount of oil. The prepac may also include a secondary explosive charge which includes one or more detonation chords that substantially encircle the primary explosive . Detonation chord burns at a high velocity and it ensures that the entire primary explosive is detonated at the same time. The prepac further includes a rear plate with a circular groove which receives a shallow cylindrical retainer . The rear plate has an open groove for communicating an impulse generated by an igniter to the perimeter of the explosive and in particular a detonation chord . The rear plate the retainer and the assembled module have a plurality of external longitudinal rails that run lengthwise from a front edge as shown in and to a rear edge of the module . The external longitudinal rails coextend from the front edge of the retainer to a rear edge of the prepac . The rails are substantially parallel and approximately equidistantly spaced. The space between a pair of rails defines a channel . See below for a more complete discussion.

As shown in elongate internal slides are slid into the channels spanning one or more modules and prepacs therein holding together the assembled components. is a cross sectional view of an elongate internal slide taken along section line of . The elongate internal slide is a six sided bar that frictionally fits in a channel formed by parallel full rails and partial rails . In the the rails are shown in ghost as indicated by dashed lines. The six sides are the following a top a bottom an upper right side a right underside an upper left side and a left underside . A right V notch is formed with the upper right side and the right underside meeting at a right vertex of the two right sides. A left V notch is formed with the upper left side and the left underside meeting at a left vertex of the two left sides. Most of the friction is generated as a result of the tightness of fit in the channel between the apex left and the apex right and the width of V notches between the right vertex and the left vertex . The bottom of the slide almost always clears the bottom of the channel .

The right side is the mirror image of the left side and the bottom side is the mirror image of the top side. With one exception the symmetry allows the length of the elongate internal slide to be inserted in the channel either upside down or up. The one exception is that one end of the slide has an L shaped extension that can be used to secure liners see and explosive flying projectiles see . To secure elements to the front of a module the L shaped extension are turned inward. To connect a series of modules as shown in and where the series is longer than the slide or to use the L shaped extensions as feet the L shaped extensions are usually turned outward. illustrates the exception. The linear shape charge has three modules connected using the slides. The connection between and is on the backside and is not visible. The slides are also used to extend the working length of the module frequently for establishing a stand off distance. Additional modules also may be connected to lengthen the stand off distance. is an assemblage of views of an elongate internal slide illustrating potential positions of the elongate slides having an end with an L shaped extension .

In many applications and as shown in the full length of the conical liner extends axially from the front edge to the explosive charge . The illustrated liner is relatively thin just thick enough to protect the explosive charge. The prepac explosive may be combined with a hand packed explosive such that the hand packed explosive is packed around the liner . The shape of the liner determines the shape of the hand packed charge. A conical liner produces a conical shape hand packed charge. When detonated the liner is generally focused into a hot molted ball that is rapidly but partially oxidized. Since the oxidation is exothermic the liner itself may contribute energy to the charge. Examples of exothermic liners include copper magnesium and aluminum. Glass and other ceramics are sometimes used to generate a different effect.

Referring to which is a perspective elevated view of a variation in the hardware where the hardware includes a flyer plate fitted on a module having an explosive prepac with a cylindrical retainer an explosive not visible and a rear plate . The flyer plate may be made of iron copper aluminum magnesium other metals and alloys thereof. The elongate slides are taped into position using a suitable tape for example a polyimide film pressure sensitive adhesive tape . Taping may be necessary if the flyer plate is heavy. The single module in an exemplary embodiment contains an explosive. The top panel female female panel has a panel access port for a receptacle and an igniter as shown in . The panel access port also may be used to mount a module in a stand such as tripod. Tripods are used to establish an optimum stand off distance. See for an example of a receptacle and an igniter . The panel access port is similar to the access port in the rear plate in the prepac illustrated in .

The disclosed invention is highly suited for explosive ordnance disposal performed using dismounted operations. Dismounted operations require that potentially everything to be carried manually for instance in a backpack. The system is advantageous in that the explosive is already packed in standard modules where it may be configured into multiple explosive devices. Hand packing the explosive is usually not required just the addition of prepacs or cutting out a wedge of explosive.

The invented system condenses and consolidates the capabilities available from multiple explosives and explosive tools into substantially one relatively lightweight device suitable for dismounted operations.

Examples of varieties of explosive that are in common use in shape charges include cyclotrimethylene trinitramine RDX cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine HMX pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN hexanitrostilbene HNS and dipicramide DiPam .

Cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine RDX a colorless explosive is usually dyed pink for use in LSCs. RDX must be highly purified to insure stability at higher temperatures. Most LSCs contain RDX. Cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine HMX is very similar to RDX. HMX is white to colorless. It may be used at higher temperatures than RDX. Pentaerythritoltetranitrate PETN is less powerful and more sensitive than RDX. PETN is used primarily in detonators but may be used in LSCs. Dipicramide DiPam is a new explosive that it is less brisant and less sensitive than RDX. Hexanitrostilbene HNS also is a new explosive which has been for high temperature applications.

As previously noted in an exemplary embodiment the explosive C4 is substantially RDX with a plastic binder usually polyisobutylene a plasticizer usually dioctyl sebacate or dioctyl adipate sometimes with a motor oil and usually has a marker or odorizing taggant chemical such as 2 3 dimethyl 2 3 dinitrobutane DMDNB .

Shock tubing or detonation chord is generally favored but the choice is influenced by the mission and the selection of the explosive. The modules also may use plastic bags for cushioning removed explosive and storing water based liquids.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

