---

title: Quick response code business card
abstract: A business card having a QRC image, and method and system for transferring business card information from a QRC to a mobile communication device is disclosed herein. A SMS message comprising contact data for a business is sent from a QRC server to the mobile communication device, which results in pop-up display on the mobile communication device. The pop-up display includes a V-card for the business.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08573499&OS=08573499&RS=08573499
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 08573499
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130203
---
The Present Application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 594 901 filed on Feb. 3 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to a business card having a QR code. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for transferring information to a mobile phone from a business card with a QR code.

Quick reader codes QRC are two dimensional codes comprising data. The actual code comprises a square with black modules arranged in various patterns. Hara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 726 435 for an Optically Readable Two Dimensional Code And Method And Apparatus Using The Same has been credited with being one of the first if not the first patent for QRC. Hara et al. discloses the basic mechanism for retrieving data from the QRC.

Yach U.S. Pat. No. 7 988 037 for a Device And Method For Contact Information Exchange discloses using a QRC on a business card to transfer information to a mobile telephone.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

Interactive voice response IVR is a telephone technology in which a user uses a phone to interact with a database to acquire information.

Short Message Service SMS is text messaging communication using a mobile phone or other device to send messages up to 160 characters in length.

Multimedia messaging service MMS communication is a communication transmitted to and from a mobile phone that includes a multimedia content such as a digital photograph JPEG videos and the like.

A SMS Gateway is used to send text messages with or without a mobile phone and is used by aggregators to forward text messages to mobile phones.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN is a telecommunication system in which networks are inter connected to allow telephones to communicate with each other throughout the world.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act TCPA of 1991 restricts the use of SMS text messages received by mobile phones and SMS messages sent without a consumer s consent can violate the TCPA.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server. Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Short message peer to peer SMPP is a telecommunications protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

A SMS aggregator is an entity that provides connectivity with a mobile phone carrier by offering a SMS gateway to send and receive messages and other digital content.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP relates to communications transmitted over the Internet such as SKYPE.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

CRM Customer Relationship Management is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS. WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

One aspect of the present invention is a method for transferring business card information. The method includes reading a QRC image on a business card with a QRC scanner application on a mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the business. The method also includes uploading the contact data for the business to the contact section of the mobile communication device. A business card mobile application on the mobile communication device retrieves the contact data for the business directly from the QRC image.

Another aspect of the present invention is a business card comprises a body with a first surface and a second surface and a QRC image. The first surface comprises text and graphics with a contact name a contact title a business name a business address a business phone number and a business email. The second surface comprises a QRC image for the business card. The QRC image comprises means for uploading contact data for the business card through use of a QRC scanner. The contact data comprises contact name a contact title a business name a business address a business phone number and a business email.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a system for transferring business card information. The system comprises a mobile communication device with a QRC scanner application and a business card with a QRC image. The business card comprises text and graphics with a contact name a contact title a business name a business address a business phone number and a business email and the QRC image comprises means for uploading contact data for the business card through use of a QRC scanner. The contact data comprises contact name a contact title a business name a business address a business phone number and a business email.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for transferring business card information from a QRC to a mobile communication device. The method includes reading a QRC image on a business card with a mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the business. The method also includes generating a HTTP get request for a web page in a web browser of the mobile communication device. The HTTP get request generated from reading the QRC image. The method also includes transmitting the web page from a QRC server to the web browser of the mobile communication device. The method also includes transmitting the phone number of the mobile communication device to the QRC server. The method also includes transmitting a SMS message to the mobile communication device from the QRC server. The SMS message comprises the contact data for the business. The method also includes saving the contact data for the business in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a method for transferring business card information. The method includes reading a QRC image on a business card with a QRC scanner application on a mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the business. The method also includes generating a HTTP get request for a web page in a web browser of the mobile communication device. The method also includes transmitting the web page to the web browser of the mobile communication device. The web page having an input block for inputting a phone number of the mobile communication device. The method also includes inputting the phone number into the input block of the web page. The method also includes generating a save command for the web page. The method also includes placing a cookie on the web browser of the mobile communication device. The cookie comprises the phone number of the mobile communication device. The method also includes transmitting the phone number of the mobile communication device to a QRC server. The method also includes transmitting a SMS message to the mobile communication device from the QRC server. The SMS message comprises the contact data for the business. The method also includes generating a pop up on a display of the mobile communication device. The pop up comprises a V card for the business. The method also includes saving the V card in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

The method further includes reading a QRC image on a second business card with the QRC scanner application on the mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the second business. The method further includes generating a HTTP get request for a web page in a web browser of the mobile communication device. The method further includes transmitting the web page to the web browser of the mobile communication device. The method further includes transmitting the phone number of the mobile communication device to the QRC server. The method further includes transmitting a second SMS message to the mobile communication device from the QRC server the second SMS message comprising the contact data for the second business. The method further includes generating a pop up on a display of the mobile communication device the pop up comprising a second V card for the second business. The method further includes saving the second V card in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As shown in a first person has a business card with a QR code image . The QR code image preferably comprises contact name a contact title a business name a business address a business phone number and a business email. The second person uses a mobile communication device with a camera to scan the QR code image and using a mobile application on the mobile communication device obtain the contact information from the business card into a contacts file of the mobile communication device .

As shown in a business card has a first side with traditional information such as an address name telephone number and logo. The business card also has a second side with a QR code image .

As shown in in a preferred embodiment contact data is uploaded directly from the QR code image of the business card to a mobile communication device . In the scanner application of the mobile communication device an image of the back side of the business card along with an image of the QR code image . V card data is transferred to the contacts of the mobile communication device .

In an alternative embodiment a website is accessed on a web browser of a mobile communication device through a URL decoded from a QRC image of the business card in order to upload contact data for a business.

In an alternative embodiment a website is accessed on a web browser of a mobile communication device through a URL decoded from a QRC image of the business card and a SMS or MMS is sent to the mobile communication device in order to provide the contact data for the business.

The mobile communication devices utilized with the present invention preferably include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTPS HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MSSQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTP.

A mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the customer such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the data capable communication device of the customer.

A flow chart of a method for transferring business card information is shown in . At block a QRC image on a business card is read with a QRC scanner application on a mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the business. At block a HTTP get request for a web page is generated in a web browser of the mobile communication device from the information scanned from the QRC image. At block the web page is transmitted from a QRC server to the web browser of the mobile communication device. The web page has an input block for inputting a phone number of the mobile communication device. At block the phone number of the mobile communication device is inputted into the input block of the web page. At block a SAVE command for the web page is generated and the phone number is saved. At block in reaction to the SAVE command a cookie is placed on the web browser of the mobile communication device. The cookie comprises the phone number of the mobile communication device. In a preferred embodiment the phone number is encrypted to prevent unauthorized access to the phone number. At block also in reaction to the SAVE command the phone number of the mobile communication device is transmitted to the QRC server. At block a SMS communication or MMS communication is transmitted to the mobile communication device from the QRC server. The SMS or MMS communication comprises the contact data for the business. The contact data may be text or a graphics or both. At block a pop up is generated on a display of the mobile communication device. The pop up comprises a V card for the business. At block the V card is saved in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

A flow chart of a method for transferring business card data to a mobile communication device that has previously received business card data from a QRC server is shown in . At block a QRC image on a second business card is read with a QRC scanner application on a mobile communication device. The QRC image comprises contact data for the second business. At block a HTTP get request for a web page is generated in a web browser of the mobile communication device from the information scanned from the QRC image. At block the web page is transmitted from a QRC server to the web browser of the mobile communication device. At block the phone number of the mobile communication device is transmitted to the QRC server. The phone number resides in a cookie in the web browser of the mobile communication. Upon receiving the web page from the QRC server the phone number is transmitted to the QRC server. At block a second SMS message or MMS message is transmitted to the mobile communication device from the QRC server. The SMS or MMS message comprises the contact data for the business. The contact data may be text or a graphics or both. At block a pop up is generated on a display of the mobile communication device. The pop up comprises a V card for the second business. At block the V card is saved in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

A system for transferring business card information is shown in . The system includes QRC server and communications network server located in the Internet . As shown in illustration block a QR code image on a business card is read with a QR code scanner application on a mobile communication device . The QR code image comprises contact data for the business. A HTTP get request for a web page is generated in a web browser of the mobile communication device from the information scanned from the QR code image and sent over the internet to the QRC server. At web page is transmitted from a QRC server to the web browser of the mobile communication device . The web page has an input block for inputting a phone number of the mobile communication device . The phone number of the mobile communication device is inputted into the input block of the web page. A SAVE command for the web page is generated and the phone number is saved. In reaction to the SAVE command a cookie is placed on the web browser of the mobile communication device . The cookie comprises the phone number of the mobile communication device . In a preferred embodiment the phone number is encrypted to prevent unauthorized access to the phone number. Also in reaction to the SAVE command the phone number of the mobile communication device is transmitted to the QRC server. A SMS communication or MMS communication is transmitted to the mobile communication device from the QRC server. The SMS or MMS communication comprises the contact data for the business. The contact data may be text or a graphics or both. At a pop up is generated on a display of the mobile communication device. The pop up comprises a V card for the business. The V card is saved in a contact file of the mobile communication device.

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

