---

title: Assessments of vascular permeability for biomedical imaging studies
abstract: Described herein are methods and systems for analyzing biomedical images using new models. Example models include a linear reference region model and a reference agent model. In one example aspect, a computer-implemented method is provided. The method may involve determining, based on a set of biomedical images, a first concentration-activity curve and a second concentration activity-curve. Additionally, the method may further include determining a value of at least one pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter based on the first concentration-activity curve and the second concentration-activity curve and a linear model that relates the first concentration-activity curve to the second concentration-activity curve. The value of the at least one PK parameter may be determined based on application of a linear least square fitting algorithm to the linear model. Also, the method may include causing a graphical display to provide a visual indication of the value of the at least one PK parameter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262824&OS=09262824&RS=09262824
owner: Arizona Board of Regents on Behalf of the University of Arizona
number: 09262824
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130115
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase of International Application No. PCT US2013 021583 filed Jan. 15 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 633 549 filed Feb. 13 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 634 589 filed Mar. 2 2012 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under P30 CA023074 awarded by the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health and W81XWH 10 1 0188 awarded by the U.S. Army Medical Research and Material Command. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure herein relates generally to processing biomedical images and in particular to methods and systems for assessing vascular permeability and flow using biomedical images.

Biomedical imaging techniques can be used to assess physiological parameters of a tumor organ or other tissue of interest. For instance biomedical imaging techniques can be used to estimate vascular permeability the movement of fluids and molecules between vascular and extravascular compartments. Vascular permeability may characterize the ability of a blood vessel wall to allow for the flow of molecules e.g. ions nutrients or water or cells into or out of the blood vessel. Other examples of uses for biomedical imaging techniques may exist.

Described herein are new methods and systems for analyzing biomedical images. In one example methods and systems that may provide for improved speed of analysis and less sensitivity to both noise and temporal resolution are described. Such an example may enable the analysis of biomedical images obtained in a clinical setting. In another example methods and systems are provided that involve estimation of the relative permeability and or flow of two contrast agents within the same tissue of interest advantageously eliminating some of the physiological variables that might otherwise affect the analysis.

In one example aspect a computer implemented method is provided. The method may involve determining based on a set of biomedical images a first concentration activity curve and a second concentration activity curve. Each of the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may indicate a concentration of a respective contrast agent within a respective region of tissue. Additionally the method may further include determining a value of at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter based on the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Determining the value of the at least one PK parameter may include i determining a linear model including the at least one PK parameter that relates the first concentration activity curve to the second concentration activity curve and ii determining the value of the at least one PK parameter based on application of a linear least square fitting LLSQ algorithm to the linear model. Also the method may include causing a graphical display to provide a visual indication of the value of the at least one PK parameter.

In another example aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon is provided. The instructions may include determining based on a set of biomedical images a first concentration activity curve and a second concentration activity curve. Each of the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may indicate a concentration of a respective contrast agent within a respective region of tissue. Additionally the instructions may further include determining a value of at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter based on the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Determining the value of the at least one PK parameter may include i determining a linear model including the at least one PK parameter that relates the first concentration activity curve to the second concentration activity curve and ii determining the value of the at least one PK parameter based on application of a linear least square fitting LLSQ algorithm to the linear model. Also the instructions may include causing a graphical display to provide a visual indication of the value of the at least one PK parameter.

In a further aspect a system comprising at least one processor a non transitory computer readable medium and program instructions stored on the non transitory computer readable medium is provided. The instructions may be executable by the at least one processor to determine based on a set of biomedical images a first concentration activity curve and a second concentration activity curve. Each of the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may indicate a concentration of a respective contrast agent within a respective region of tissue. Additionally the instructions may be executable to determine a value of at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter based on the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Determining the value of the at least one PK parameter may include i determining a linear model including the at least one PK parameter that relates the first concentration activity curve to the second concentration activity curve and ii determining the value of the at least one PK parameter based on application of a linear least square fitting LLSQ algorithm to the linear model.

All embodiments of the invention disclosed herein can be combined with other embodiments or combinations of embodiments unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part thereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and or designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Further for illustration certain aspects of the disclosure herein will be described with respect to magnetic resonance imaging. It should be understood however that part or all of the described systems and methods may apply equally to other types of biomedical imaging e.g. optical imaging ultrasound imaging etc. . Therefore the described embodiments should not be taken to be limiting.

Described herein are new methods and systems for analyzing models of phenomena that change biomedical images. For purposes of example and explanation the methods and systems described herein may be used to determine the value of at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter that is indicative of a perfusion permeability flow extracellular volume fraction or other physiological parameter of a tissue of interest e.g. a tumor muscle organ or other tissue . The determined value of the PK parameter may then be used to for example diagnose how the tissue of interest is responding to treatment evaluate an abnormal condition of blood perfusion or prognosticate an outcome among other uses. Other aspects uses and advantageous of the methods and systems described herein are described further below.

With reference to an example method for determining a value of a PK parameter is described. As shown in initially at block the method includes determine based on a set of biomedical images a first concentration activity curve and a second concentration activity curve. At block the method includes determine a value of at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter based on the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Determining the value of the at least one PK parameter may include determining a linear model that relates the first concentration activity curve to the second concentration activity curve at block and at block determining the value of the at least one PK parameter based on application of a linear least squares LLSQ algorithm to the linear model. At block the method includes cause a graphical display to provide a visual indication of the value of the at least one PK parameter. These steps are explained in the following subsections.

Generally the methods and functions described herein may be carried out by a computing system such as computing system of described further below. Again however it should be understood that the computing system of is set forth for purposes of example and explanation only and should not be taken to be limiting. The present methods and functions may just as well be carried out in other systems having other arrangements.

At block the method includes determine based on a set of biomedical images a first concentration activity curve and a second concentration activity curve. Each of the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may indicate a concentration of a respective contrast agent within a respective region of tissue.

In one example the set of biomedical images may be a temporally dynamic series of biomedical images. The set of biomedical images may include any type of biomedical images or biomedical image data. For example the set of biomedical images may be any type of MR images e.g. F MRI DCE MRI F DCE MRI images optical images ultrasound images positron emission tomography PET images Computed Tomography images or X ray images among other possibilities.

The respective contrast agent may be a substance used to enhance the contrast of structures or fluids within a body for medical imaging. The particular type of contrast agent may vary depending on the type of biomedical imaging technique used to obtain the biomedical images. In one case the biomedical images may be MRI images and the respective contrast agent may be a paramagnetic contrast agent. In another case the biomedical images may be optical images and the respective contrast agent may be a colored dye. In still another case the biomedical images may be F MRI images and the respective contrast agent may be a nanoemulsion such as a nanoemulsion that includes perfluorocarbons. In yet another case the contrast agent may be a substance that is responsive to a biomarker. For instance the contrast agent may be responsive to zinc ions or enzyme activities. Other examples also exist.

A concentration activity curve may generally be data that indicates the concentration of a respective contrast agent as a function of time within a respective region of tissue e.g. a voxel or group of voxels . As described further below depending on the particular example the first concentration activity curve may indicate the concentration of the same contrast agent or different respective contrast agents. Additionally as described below the concentration activity curves may indicate the concentration of a contrast agent within the same region of tissue or different respective regions of tissue.

Before turning to a more detailed description of the determination of a concentration activity curve a brief overview of modeling the pharmacokinetics of a contrast agent is provided with reference to . Such a model of the pharmacokinetics of a contrast agent may ultimately be used to generate a concentration activity curve.

PK models often make two assumptions. A first assumption is that a human body may be represented by one or more compartments into and out of which a contrast agent dynamically flows. A second assumption is that each compartment is well mixed such that a contrast agent entering a compartment is immediately distributed uniformly throughout the compartment.

The model shown in is a two compartment model including a central compartment and peripheral compartment . Intravascular extracellular volume fraction plasma is considered to be the central compartment and EES volume fraction tissue is considered to the peripheral compartment .

According to the model a contrast agent may be introduced into the vasculature and diffuses into the EES in a reversible process characterized by a distribution rate constant K and a redistribution rate constant k K v . Equation 1 describes the process 

Equation 1 assumes that the tissue does not contain any vascular space which may be correct for some tissues e.g. muscle . However in some examples ignoring the fraction of vascular space v may lead to erroneous results. Including vin the model increases accuracy and leads to the solution to Equation 1 shown by Equation 3 3 

In an example in which the biomedical images are DCE MRI images Equations 2 or 3 may be used to determine the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. The concentration activity curve for plasma Cp t is referred to as the arterial input function AIF and may be challenging to determine Example approaches include taking arterial blood samples during acquisition of biomedical images or estimating the contrast agent concentration from biomedical imaging data when a large vessel is located in the same field of view of the analyzed tissue. A third example approach is to eliminate the need of measuring the AIF by using a second tissue a reference region RR as a surrogate for the AIF. The third example approach referred to as the RR model RRM is further described below.

In an example in which the biomedical images are optical images the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may be determined based on a pixel intensity value of a particular color or hue that corresponds to the color of a respective contrast agent. For instance image processing may be used to determine the intensity of a particular color within a pixel or group of pixels within each image and the intensity may be converted to a concentration of the contrast agent to determine a concentration activity curve.

In an example in which a contrast agent is responsive to a biomarker the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve may be determined based on changes in imaging signal such as the MRI signal or the optical imaging signal and whereby the biomarker responsive agent changes the imaging signal at a different rate than the agent that is unresponsive to the biomarker but is responsive to the other conditions that also potentially affect the first biomarker.

At block the method includes determine a value of at least one PK parameter based on the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. According to the method determining the value of the at least one PK parameter may include determining a linear model that relates the first concentration activity curve to the second concentration activity curve at block and at block determining the value of the at least one PK parameter based on application of a linear least square fitting LLSQ algorithm to the model.

As described previously the PK parameter may be a parameter that is indicative of perfusion permeability flow extracellular volume fraction or other physiological parameter of a tissue of interest. For instance the PK parameter may include a volume transfer constant an extravascular extracellular volume fraction or a redistribution rate constant as described below among other possibilities. Additionally the PK parameter may be a parameter of a linear model that relates the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. The characteristics and derivations of example linear models including a linear reference region model LRRM and a reference agent model RAM are now described in detail.

The LRRM is one example of a linear model that may be determined at block . LRRM is an improvement on the reference region model RRM . Therefore for purposes of example and explanation a description of the RRM will first be described with reference to .

The physiological interpretation for Kvaries depending on the balance between capillary permeability PS and blood flow F in the tissue of interest. For high permeability situations PS F 1 7 where is the tissue density and Hct is the hematocrit. When the transport of the contrast agent is limited by permeability PS

Using a RR model RRM slightly relaxes the requirements on temporal sampling for acquisition of biomedical images by using the concentration of a contrast agent in a reference region as a surrogate for the AIF. Using the RRM however still involves previous knowledge or assumption of the volume transfer constant and extravascular extracellular volume Kand vrespectively of the reference region. In some examples such estimation may introduce systematic error into the determination of other PK parameters.

Another limitation of the RRM involves the use of a non linear least squares NLSQ to estimate Kand vof the tissue of interest by fitting experimental concentration activity curves to the RRM. In some examples NLSQ fittings perform poorly under low signal to noise ratio SNR conditions that are typical in clinical studies. Further NLSQ fittings are highly dependent on the initial estimates of the constants to be calculated. For example for a heterogeneous tissue the initial estimates may not apply to all regions of the tissue which may lead to inaccurate fittings. Additionally the time required to obtain a parametric map through voxel wise calculations that use a NLSQ algorithm can often exceed one hour which is impractical for most radiology clinics.

In order to overcome the limitations described above a linear RRM LRRM that may be used with the current method was developed. The LRRM is one example of a linear model that may be determined at block .

The RRM may be formulated in terms of ratios of Kto K known as R Kto v known as k and Kto v known as k . Calculating R k and kby applying a linear least squares LLSQ fitting algorithm to a linear RRM removes the need for an initial estimate of parameters. Using LLSQ can typically produce parametric maps within seconds which can greatly facilitate the practical use of these algorithms for example in clinical settings. Fitting concentration activity curves to a LRRM also leads to better performance compared to a using a NLSQ algorithm to fit concentration activity curves to a non linear RRM NRRM . Additionally using the LRRM described herein provides for more precise and accurate results under conditions of low SNR and or slow temporal resolution than a NRRM.

Given the behavior of a contrast agent within a tissue of interest and a reference region described by Equations 10 and 11 

Substituting Equation 12 into Equation 10 eliminates the dependence of Equation 10 on Cp t and yields Equation 13 

A LRRM can be derived by integrating both sides of Equation 13 and assuming that the initial concentration of the contrast agent in both tissues is equal to zero to obtain Equation 15 

If the elements of columns two and three of vector M are approximated by numerical integration Equation 16 can be solved for the elements of b using conventional LLSQ. In one example the application of a LLSQ algorithm of block may include applying a LLSQ algorithm to the LRRM model described by Equations 15 and 16. For instance applying the LLSQ to Equations 15 and 16 may yield the PK parameters of vector b of Equations 15 and 16.

R K K k and v vare a examples of PK parameters that may be determined based on a linear model the LRRM. In an example in which the LRRM is used as the linear model of the method C t and C t may be the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Thus the first concentration activity curve may indicate the concentration of a first contrast agent within an interest region of tissue the TOI and the second concentration activity curve may indicate the concentration of the first contrast agent within a reference region of tissue the RR.

Computer simulations and experiments were performed to test the use of the LRRM in accordance with the method . Advantageously the results indicated that using the LRRM is faster than the NRRM and relaxes requirements for temporal resolution and SNR. The simulation results and experimental results for the LRRM are described below. The simulation and experimental results are provided as examples. Other results are also possible and the results presented herein should not be taken to be limiting in any way.

Computer simulations were used to study the effect of injection speed temporal resolution and statistical noise on the accuracy and precision of LRRM and NRRM to estimate Rand k. Three arterial input functions AIFs with three different injection speeds were simulated using Equation 18 1 18 and the following parameters for each speed A Fast 10 sec. injection speed A 30.0 mM B 1.0 C 4.00 min D 0.65 mM E 5.0 min F 0.04 min B Moderate 40 sec. injection speed A 120.0 mM B 3.0 C 4.34 min D 0.80 mM E 1.0 min F 0.07 min C Slow 80 sec. injection speed A 55.0 mM B 5.5 C 3.98 min D 0.80 mM E 1.0 min F 0.07 minEach of the AIFs were calculated from t 0 to t 35 minutes at a temporal resolution of 1.0 seconds. A series of C T and C T curves were then calculated using each AIF and Equation 19 19 with K 0.25 minand k 0.62 minfor the TOI curve and K 0.10 minand k 1.00 minfor the RR curve.

To study systematic error all the AIFs C T and C T were down sampled from their initial resolution of 1 second to a new resolution of 60 seconds in intervals of 1 second. Further the AIF with the best performance in the systematic error analysis was used to study the combined effect of SNR and temporal resolution on the accuracy and precision of the LRRM and NRRM. To do so all curves were recalculated at t 1 10 30 and 60 seconds. Also Gaussian noise was added to produce SNRs from 5 to 50. Each simulation was then repeated 1000 times for each condition of SNR and t. The accuracy of parameters was evaluated in terms of the mean percentage error and the precision was evaluated in terms of the standard deviation of the percentage error.

The estimated values of Rand kfrom these simulations were compared to their initial values used to create the simulated data. shows the systematic errors as a function of temporal resolution and injection speed. As shown in the NRRM systematically underestimated Rand overestimated k and these systematic errors became worse as the temporal sampling became slower. The results shown in indicate that DCE MRI with LRRM can produce accurate results with a moderate or fast injection speed while DCE MRI with NRRM cannot produce accurate results unless the temporal sampling is extremely fast.

The results of experiments also indicated that the LRRM may be more suitable than the NRRM for many clinical studies. For instance results indicated that NRRM may only produce accurate and precise results when the temporal resolution is fast which may not be feasible in all radiology clinics.

To experimentally compare the results of LRRM and NRRM a female severe combined immunodeficiency SCID mouse weighing 21 grams was housed and maintained under specific pathogen free conditions. The mouse was injected subcutaneously in the right flank with 10 10MDA 231 cells in 0.1 mL saline. The tumor was measured every 2 to 3 days using electronic calipers and allowed to grow for 22 days to an average volume of 250 mmbefore initiating MRI studies.

The mouse was scanned 22 days after tumor implantation using a Bruker Biospec 7.0 T scanner that was equipped with a 72 mm birdcage coil Bruker Biospin Inc. . Before the imaging scan the mouse was anesthetized with 1.5 2 isoflurane in Ocarrier gas a 27 G catheter was inserted in the tail vein and physiological monitoring leads were connected to monitor respiration rate and core body temperature during the MRI session. The mouse was kept at 37.0 0.2 C. during the MRI studies using warmed air that was controlled by an automated temperature feedback system SA Instruments Inc. .

DCE MRI studies were conducted by acquiring a set of 3 contiguous axial image slices through the xenograft flank tumor and 3 axial image slices through the femoral artery. The orientation of these image slices were determined by acquiring T weighted T MR images with a RARE MRI protocol that used the following parameters TR 1.0 sec TE 8.2 msec slice thickness 0.5 mm matrix 128 128 FOV 3.5 cm in plane resolution 273 m NEX 1 and RARE 4.

A parametric map of endogenous Trelaxation time R 0 with the same geometry as the Timages was obtained by acquiring a series of RARE variable TR RARE VTR images with the following parameters TR 0.375 0.75 1.5 3.0 and 6.0 sec TE 9.07 msec NEX 1 RARE factor 2 and fitting the data to Equation 21 

A series of T weighted T images were acquired for DCE MRI analysis using a RARE MRI protocol with the same geometry as the R 0 maps and the following parameters was used TR 250 msec TE 8.2 msec NEX 2 averages a RARE factor 2. A total of 65 image sets were acquired for a total acquisition time of 34.66 min and a temporal resolution of 32 sec image. After the fifth image set was acquired 0.2 mmol Kg Gd DTPA Magnevist Bayer Healthcare was injected through the tail vein catheter in a total volume of 0.25 mL during 60 seconds. Finally the R 0 maps and Equation 21 were used to estimate R t for each voxel within the TOI and the average R t of the RR.

The R t curves for the RR and TOI were fitted to the LRRM and NRRM to generate tumor parametric maps of Rand kThe concentration of a contrast agent may be determined based on the effect of the contrast agent on water relaxation. The Trelaxation time and the concentration of the contrast agent are related through the following equations 

The time to calculate a parametric map of Rfor a 128 128 image matrix was approximately 6.64 seconds using LRRM and 68.88 minutes using NRRM using a typical notebook computer. Calculating a parametric map of krequired similar calculation times. Therefore the LRRM produced results approximately 620 times faster than NRRM.

Another example of a linear model that may be determined at block is the reference agent model. A detailed description of the RAM is now described.

In some applications such as DCE MRI for example the inability to account for an exact value of hematocrit in blood may lead to improperly estimated values of Cp t and K. For example most DCE MRI studies assume that the arterial hematocrit is 40 . However the hematocrit decreases as vessel diameter decreases so that hematocrit in tumor microvasculature for example ranges between 20 80 .

The RAM compares the pharmacokinetics of two contrast agents in the same tissue so that one contrast agent may be used as a reference for the second contrast agent. Because both contrast agents are located in the same tissue and experience the same hematocrit a ratiometric comparison of biomedical images of both contrast agents is independent of the hematocrit. More generally a ratiometric approach has potential to cancel other physiological characteristics as well.

The differential equations that describe the pharmacokinetic behavior of two contrast agents within the same tissue are described with respect to . is a conceptual illustration of another example model used for the quantitative analysis of biomedical image data. Similar to the conceptual illustration and example model of two assumptions are made. A first assumption is that a human body may be represented by one or more compartments into and out of which a contrast agent dynamically flows. A second assumption is that each compartment is well mixed such that a contrast agent entering a compartment is immediately distributed uniformly throughout the compartment.

The model shown in is a two compartment model including a central compartment and peripheral compartment . Intravascular extracellular volume fraction plasma is considered to be the central compartment and EES volume fraction tissue is considered to be the peripheral compartment .

According to the RAM a first contrast agent CA 1 and a second contrast agent CA 2 are introduced into the vasculature and diffuse into the EES in a reversible process characterized by a distribution rate constant K and a redistribution rate constant k K v . The following differential equations describe the process 

Equation 27 relates the concentration of a contrast agent in blood to the concentration of the contrast agent in plasma.

The elements of column two of the vector M in Equation 32 can be approximated by numerical integration. Equations 31 and 32 therefore represent a system of linear equations which can be solved for the elements of vector b. The RAM can also be expressed as a linear equation 

In one example the application of a LLSQ algorithm to the linear model in block of the method may include applying a LLSQ algorithm to Equations 31 and 32. In another example the application of a LLSQ algorithm to the linear model in block of the method may include applying a LLSQ algorithm to Equations 34 and 35.

As mentioned briefly above if the flux of a contrast agent across a tissue endothelium has low permeability relative to flow leans can be approximated by Equation 8 8 where P is the total permeability of the capillary wall S is the surface area per unit mass of tissue and is the density of tissue.

In an example in which a biomedical imaging study is conducted with large molecule contrast agents e.g. nanoemulsions of perfluorocarbons that match the permeability limited model the ratio of Kvalues for two large molecule contrast agents simultaneously detected in the same tissue can be expressed as R 

R K K k k and vare all examples of PK parameters that may be determined based on a linear model the RAM. In an example in which the RAM is used as the linear model of the method Ct t and Ct t may be the first concentration activity curve and the second concentration activity curve. Thus the first concentration activity curve may indicate the concentration of a first contrast agent within an interest region of tissue the TOI and the second concentration activity curve may indicate the concentration of a second contrast agent within the interest region of tissue.

Computer simulations and experiments were performed to test the use of the RAM in accordance with the method . The simulation results and experimental results for the RAM are described below. Again the simulation and experimental results are provided as examples. Other results are also possible and the results presented herein should not be taken to be limiting in any way.

Computer simulations were used to study the effect of temporal resolution and statistical noise on the accuracy and precision of RAM. The AIF for F nanoemulsions used in the study were experimentally measured and fitted to the following equation 36 

The estimated parameters and were combined with previously reported values for A and B for nanoparticles of similar size to simulate the AIF from 0 to 30 min. The values for each parameter were A 24.0 KgL 16.54 min B 5.5 KgL and 0.03935 minCt t and Ct t curves were calculated using Equation 37 

To test the effect of temporal resolution the AIF Ct t and Ct t were down sampled from t one second to t 0.5 2.0 and 4.0 min. The combined effect of SNR and t on accuracy and precision was studied by adding Gaussian noise to produce SNRs from 5 to 100.

The results of experiments also indicated that RAM may be used for many clinical studies. To experimentally evaluate the use of RAM a mouse model of a subcutaneous MDA MB 231 tumor was used to perform in vivo F DCE MRI. A total of 18 multi echo images were acquired by iterating the selective detection of perfluorinated 15 crown ether PCE and perfluorooctane PFO which produced 9 images of each nanoemulsion that were unshuffled to show the temporal dependence of the F MRI signals from each nanoemulsion. The mixture of the nanoemulsions was injected during the acquisition of the second image so that the first two images showed no significant F MR signal. Subsequent images showed a consistently increasing F MRI signal in the tumor. F MRI signals in the tumor were converted to F concentrations and the RAM was used to estimate a value of R.

At block the method includes cause a graphical display to provide a visual indication of the value of the at least one PK parameter. The graphical display may be any type of display device such as a display device that is communicatively coupled to a computing system that is configured to perform the method . In one example the method may include causing the graphical display to provide the visual indication in response to the determining of the value of the PK parameter.

In some examples the method of may further include additional blocks. are flow charts of example methods and . One or more blocks of the method may be combined with any of the blocks of methods and or . For instance the method or the method may be performed after block of . Other configurations are also possible. Alternatively either of the methods and may be performed independently of the method .

As shown in initially at block the method may include compare a determined value of at least one PK parameter to a threshold or a previous value. The determined value may be a value determined using the method for example or may be a value determined using other methods. In one example the determined value may be a volume transfer constant and the volume transfer constant may be compared to a volume transfer constant threshold or to a prior value of a volume transfer constant determined at an early time period. The comparison may determine for instance whether the determined value is greater than or less than the threshold or previous value.

At block the method may include determine a response indication corresponding to a treatment of an interest region of tissue based on the comparison. For instance the interest region of tissue may be a tumor and the response indication may be an indication of whether the tumor is responding to an anti angiogenic therapy. In one example if the comparison indicates that a determined volume transfer constant is less than a previously determined volume transfer constant the response indication may be that the tumor is responding positively to the anti angiogenic therapy.

The methods of the invention may thus be used for example to diagnose cancer in a subject. In one embodiment the cancer comprises a solid tumor. Exemplary tumor types that can be diagnosed using the methods of the invention include but are not limited to lung cancer breast cancer bladder cancer thyroid cancer liver cancer pleural cancer pancreatic cancer ovarian cancer cervical cancer testicular cancer colon cancer anal cancer bile duct cancer gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors esophageal cancer gall bladder cancer rectal cancer appendix cancer small intestine cancer stomach gastric cancer renal cancer cancer of the central nervous system skin cancer choriocarcinomas head and neck cancers osteogenic sarcomas B cell lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma Burkitt s lymphoma fibrosarcoma neuroblastoma glioma and melanoma. The subject may be any suitable subject including a mammal such as a human. The subject may be any subject with one or more risk factors for cancer or who is otherwise identified by an attending physician as in need of a test for diagnosing cancer. In one exemplary embodiment a subject at risk of breast cancer is any subject considered to be in a risk group for breast cancer. In one embodiment the subject is a woman. In other embodiments the subject has one or more of a lump in their breast tissue lymph nodes or armpit changes in breast size or shape skin dimpling nipple inversion spontaneous single nipple discharge a family personal history of breast cancer or is a carrier of a mutation in the BRCA or other gene that predisposes one to breast cancer. Based on the teachings herein and the level of skill in the art it will be apparent to those of skill in the art how to identify subjects at risk of other cancers.

The methods of the invention may further be used for example to assess a response of a subject with cancer to a prescribed anti cancer treatment including but not limited to radiation therapy chemotherapy i.e. mechlorethamine cyclophosphamide chlorambucil ifosfamide azathioprine mercaptopurine taxanes vincristine vinblastine paclitaxel imatinib gefitinib etc. anti angiogenic therapy ex bevacizumab hormonal therapy monoclonal antibody therapy trastuzumab rituximab etc. and photodynamic therapy. In these embodiments the methods are performed at a first time point for example prior to initiating therapy and at a second time point for example after one or more rounds of treatment and a change a PK parameter between the first and the second time point provides a measure of the subject s response to treatment. Based on the results of the methods in this embodiment an attending physician may recommend for example i modifying the therapy to be administered to the subject increased dosage decreased dosage increased frequency of administration decreased frequency of administration etc. ii switching the subject to a different therapy or iii maintaining a current course of therapy.

In other examples treatment for ischemia revascularization inflammatory disease infection or other conditions may be evaluated using the method . For instance a change in a PK parameter may correspond to an increased or decreased blood perfusion in a tissue which may be used to determine whether the tissue is responding to a treatment for ischemia revascularization inflammation infection or other condition. By way of non limiting example inflammatory disease refers to a disease or disorder characterized or caused by inflammation. Inflammation refers to a local response to cellular injury that is marked by capillary dilatation leukocytic infiltration redness heat and pain that serves as a mechanism initiating the elimination of noxious agents and of damaged tissue. The site of inflammation may include the lungs the pleura a tendon a lymph node or gland the uvula the vagina the brain the spinal cord nasal and pharyngeal mucous membranes a muscle the skin bone or bony tissue a joint the urinary bladder the retina the cervix of the uterus the canthus the intestinal tract the vertebrae the rectum the anus a bursa a follicle and the like. Such inflammatory diseases include but are not limited to inflammatory bowel disease rheumatoid diseases e.g. rheumatoid arthritis other arthritic diseases e.g. acute arthritis acute gouty arthritis bacterial arthritis chronic inflammatory arthritis degenerative arthritis osteoarthritis infectious arthritis juvenile arthritis mycotic arthritis neuropathic arthritis polyarthritis proliferative arthritis psoriatic arthritis venereal arthritis viral arthritis fibrositis pelvic inflammatory disease acne psoriasis actinomycosis dysentery biliary cirrhosis Lyme disease heat rash Stevens Johnson syndrome mumps and blastomycosis. Inflammatory bowel diseases are chronic inflammatory diseases of the gastrointestinal tract which include without limitation Crohn s disease ulcerative colitis and indeterminate colitis. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disease primarily of the joints usually polyarticular marked by inflammatory changes in the synovial membranes and articular structures and by muscle atrophy and rarefaction of the bones.

The described systems and methods may also be used to aid in the prognosis of a subject suffering from cancer ischemia revascularization inflammatory disease infection or other conditions. For example the method alone or in any combination with one or more of the blocks of method may be used to determine a subject s prognosis when blood perfusion is abnormal e.g. more than normal in the case of tumor angiogenesis and less than normal in the case of ischemia revascularization or inflammation and infection . As used herein prognosis may for example refer to a likelihood that the subject will or will not respond to a particular treatment regimen for the relevant indication.

Initially at block the method includes compare a determined value of at least one PK parameter to a threshold or range. The determined value may be a value determined using the method for example or may be a value determined using other methods. In one example the determined value may be a volume transfer constant and the volume transfer constant may be compared to a volume transfer constant threshold or range. The comparison may determine for instance whether the determined value is within a predetermined range or a position of the determined value within the predetermined range e.g. a percentile .

At block the method includes determine an effect of a therapy applied to an interest region of tissue based on the comparison. In one instance the method may be used to evaluate the early response of a therapy within days or hours of starting the therapy for example. This may be advantageous relative to waiting for longer periods of time to evaluate an effect and then realizing that the therapy was ineffective.

In other examples the described systems and methods may be used to predict the effect of a therapy applied to treat an abnormal condition of blood perfusion before the therapy is initiated. In still other examples the described systems and methods may be used to evaluate the blood perfusion of patients who are at risk for some diseases such as cancer. For example individuals who have had a condition in the past may be at risk of developing a particular disease that can be evaluated for. As another example a female patient with strong genetic markers for breast cancer who has dense breast tissue smokes and has a history of breast cancer in her family may have enough risk factors to justify screening the female patient for breast cancer.

The described applications are not meant to be limiting and other examples are also possible. For instance it is contemplated that the LRRM can be applied to the study of other phenomena. The derivation of the RAM is one application of LRRM. In line with this strategy the LRRM can also be applied to many other events which can also be characterized by coupled ordinary differential equations for example quantitative measurement of enzymatic activity using hyperpolarized MRI receptor binding and dynamic perfusion in non biological systems.

In a further embodiment of all embodiments disclosed herein the methods may further comprise treating the subject based on the results obtained through carrying out the methods of the invention. As used herein. treating means accomplishing one or more of the following a reducing or eliminating the relevant disorder such as cancer in the subject b reducing the severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder c limiting or preventing development of one or more symptoms of the disorder d inhibiting worsening of one or more symptoms of the disorder and e limiting or preventing recurrence of one or more symptoms of the disorder in subjects that were previously symptomatic for the relevant symptom. The specific treatment to be provided to the subject can be determined by an attending physician based on all factors including the relevant condition the subject s specific circumstances and the results obtained using the methods of the invention.

As shown in example system may include a computing system that is coupled to a display . Generally the computing system may be configured to receive biomedical images or biomedical image data from another device not shown . For instance the computing system may receive the biomedical images from a database a server another computing system or a biomedical imaging device. Therefore in some examples the computing system may be communicatively coupled to a biomedical imaging device that is configured to provide the biomedical images . In other examples the computing system may be configured to receive or access the biomedical images from a database. Other examples may exist.

The biomedical images may take the form of any suitable type of biomedical imaging data. For example the biomedical images may be magnetic resonance imaging MRI images such as dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging DCE MRI images or F MRI images. In another example the biomedical images may be optical images. In other examples the biomedical images may be ultrasonic images. Thus the biomedical images may include any type of biomedical images or biomedical image data.

The computing system may be configured to carry out the functions described herein. For example the computing system may be configured to carry out any of the functions described with respect to the example methods of and described above. As one example the computing system may be configured to process the biomedical images and determine one or more concentration activity curves based on the biomedical images . For instance an individual voxel or individual pixel or groups of voxels or pixels may be analyzed in one or more of the biomedical images to determine a concentration of a contrast agent over time.

The contrast agent may be any type of substance used to enhance the contrast of structures or fluids during medical imaging. For example the contrast agent may be used to enhance the visibility of blood vessels. For MRI examples the contrast agent may be a substance that alters the relaxation times of atoms within body tissues after oral or intravenous administration. As an example the contrast agent may be a paramagnetic contrast agent such as a gadolinium based compound that alters the Trelaxation time of extracellular water. In another example the contrast agent may include fluorine. For instance the contrast agent may be a F nanoemulsion. For optical imaging examples the contrast agent may include a colored dye. Other types of contrast agents are also contemplated.

The computing system may be further configured to fit the concentration activity curves to one or more pharmacokinetic models in order to estimate at least one pharmacokinetic PK parameter. For instance the computing system may be configured to determine a perfusion permeability and or extracellular volume fraction by fitting two concentration activity curves to a linear model based on application of a linear least square fitting LLSQ algorithm.

The computing system may also be configured to cause the display to provide a visual indication of the value of at least one determined PK parameter. The display may be any type of graphical display device employing one or more of any underlying display technologies e.g. cathode ray tube display light emitting diode display liquid crystal display etc. .

The computing system of may be implemented in include or take the form of a computing device or components of a computing device such as computing device shown in . As shown computing device may include without limitation a communication interface processor and data storage all of which may be communicatively linked together by a system bus network and or other connection mechanism .

Communication interface typically functions to communicatively couple computing device to other devices and or entities. As such communication interface may include a wired e.g. Ethernet without limitation and or wireless e.g. CDMA and or Wi Fi without limitation communication interface for communicating with other devices and or entities. Communication interface may also include multiple interfaces such as one through which computing device sends communication and one through which computing device receives communication. Communication interface may be arranged to communicate according to one or more types of communication protocols mentioned herein and or any others now known or later developed.

Processor may include one or more general purpose processors such as INTEL processors or the like and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processors or application specific integrated circuits . To the extent processor includes more than one processor such processors could work separately or in combination. Further processor may be integrated in whole or in part with wireless communication interface and or with other components.

Data storage in turn may include one or more volatile and or non volatile storage components such as magnetic optical or organic memory components. As shown data storage may include program data and program logic executable by processor to carry out various functions described herein. Although these components are described herein as separate data storage elements the elements could just as well be physically integrated together or distributed in various other ways. For example program data may be maintained in data storage separate from program logic for easy updating and reference by program logic .

Program data may include various data used by computing device in operation. As an example program data may include information pertaining to biomedical image data and or pharmacokinetic models. Similarly program logic may include any additional program data code or instructions necessary to carry out the functions described herein. For example program logic may include instructions executable by processor for causing computing device to carry out any of those functions described herein.

In some embodiments the disclosed methods may be implemented by computer program logic or instructions encoded on a non transitory computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other non transitory media or articles of manufacture. is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments presented herein.

In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described herein. In some examples the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium may be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium . It should be understood however that computer readable medium computer recordable medium and communications medium as contemplated herein are distinct mediums and that in any event computer readable medium is a physical non transitory computer readable medium.

The one or more programming instructions may be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as that shown in may be configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium .

The non transitory computer readable medium could also be distributed among multiple data storage elements which could be remotely located from each other. The computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be a computing device such as the computing device illustrated in . Alternatively the computing device that executes some or all of the stored instructions could be another computing device.

It is intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it is understood that the following claims including all equivalents are intended to define the scope of the invention. The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

