---

title: Sense amplifier
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide a sense amplifier, a SRAM chip comprising the sense amplifier and a method of performing read operation on the SRAM chip. The sense amplifier according to embodiments of the invention comprises an additional driving assist portion, which further takes a global data bus as input, the driving assist portion is configured to enable the sense amplifier to provide assisted driving for other sense amplifiers. With the solution according to embodiments of the invention, driving capability of a sense amplifier on global data bus can be enhanced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854868&OS=08854868&RS=08854868
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08854868
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130731
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from Chinese Patent Application No. 201210269372.5 filed Jul. 31 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Static random access memory SRAM is an important type of memory. is a typical configuration of SRAM. The SRAM cell in is a basic unit for storing logic value in a SRAM chip and is selected via WLn and data write and data read are conducted via two bitlines BL and BLb. During read operation the SRAM cell outputs a pair of complementary signals on BL and BLb that is potential of BL is higher than that of BLb or potential of BL is lower than that of BLb thereby indicating logic value 0 or 1 stored in that SRAM cell.

Potential difference between the complementary signals on BL and BLb is relatively small it is only several tens to one hundred millivolts mVs in general and is much smaller than potential difference between logic high level and logic low level in a typical digital circuit. Therefore driving capability of a SRAM cell itself is limited and can not meet the requirement of driving post stage logic circuit. A sense amplifier is used to process signals output on BL and BLb. The sense amplifier is generally multiplexed by a plurality of SRAM cells. Outputs of these SRAM cells i.e. BL and BLb in are connected to inputs of the sense amplifier i.e. DLT and DLC in via a bitline selection switch circuit. The sense amplifier performs differential amplification on the two inputted signals and then outputs the amplified signal. For example if signal level on DLT is higher than that on DLC an output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier outputs logic high level if signal level on DLT is lower than that on DLC the output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier outputs logic low level. Driving capability of the sense amplifier is stronger and thus can drive post stage logic circuit.

Signal outputted from the sense amplifier reaches an output pin of a chip via a global data bus GBL. For a high density SRAM device GBL is relatively long thereby having large parasitic resistance and parasitic capacitance. Accordingly the delay from sense amplifier establishing a stable output to pin of the chip establishing a stable output is also relatively long. This affects improvement in SRAM speed. Thus there is a need to reduce the delay.

Embodiments of the invention provide a sense amplifier a SRAM chip comprising the sense amplifier and a method of performing read operation on the SRAM chip.

The sense amplifier according to embodiments of the invention comprising a resolving portion input of which is connected to output of a storage cell corresponding to the sense amplifier and output of which is connected to input of a driving assist portion an output portion input of which is connected to output of the driving assist portion and output of which is connected to a global data bus of a chip the driving assist portion which further takes the global data bus as input the driving assist portion is configured to cause the output portion to output high level in following conditions a logic value stored in the storage cell corresponds to outputting high level on the global data bus while a read operation is performed on the storage cell corresponding to the sense amplifier at least one other sense amplifier that outputs to the same global data bus as the sense amplifier outputs high level while the storage cell corresponding to the sense amplifier is not being accessed.

A method of performing read operation on a SRAM chip according to embodiments of the invention comprising connecting bitline of a selected SRAM cell to input of a sense amplifier so as to determine output of the sense amplifier based on a logic value stored in the SRAM cell causing at least one other sense amplifier that outputs to the same global data bus as the sense amplifier to also output high level in case that the sense amplifier outputs high level.

According to the technical solution provided by embodiments of the invention driving capability of a sense amplifier on global data bus can be enhanced such that the speed of establishing a stable output at output pin of a chip is increased.

The invention will be described below by referring to drawings and in conjunction with embodiments. Such description is merely for illustration and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The drawings are only for purpose of illustration and thus are not drawn to scale. Further when a first element is described as connected to a second element the first element not only can be connected directly to the second element but also can be connected indirectly to the second element via a third element. Further for clarity some elements which are not necessary to fully understand the invention are omitted for brevity. In the drawings similar and corresponding elements are represented by similar reference numbers.

Those skilled in the art can appreciate that level and device type has symmetric relationship in a digital circuit. For example turn on level of a N type transistor is high level while turn on level of a P type transistor is low level. Thus conditions on high and low level mentioned in the following description may be changed by altering type of relevant devices. Further the mentioned conditions may also be changed by incorporating additional devices. For example for a N type transistor that is turned on at high level if a NOT gate device is added between gate and input signal of the N type transistor then the transistor may be turned on when input signal is low level. All these variations are equivalent to embodiments of the invention described blow and fall into protection scope of the present patent.

In a resolving portion of the sense amplifier is a circuit comprising P type transistors T T and N type transistors T T T in which T T T and T constitute a cross coupling circuit and T is referred to as tail current transistor. Gates of transistors T and T are connected at a first node drains of transistors T and T are connected at a second node gates of transistors T and T are connected at the second node drains of transistors T and T are connected at the first node sources of transistors T and T are connected to power supply level sources of transistors T and T are connected to drain of transistor T source of transistor T is connected to reference level GND gate of transistor T is connected to an enable signal SA ENABLE of the sense amplifier the first node and the second node are connected to two inputs DLC and DLT of the sense amplifier respectively and further connected to output portion of the sense amplifier respectively.

The sense amplifier shown in comprises four terminals in addition to the DLT DLC and OUT mentioned above there is a SA ENABLE terminal. This terminal is used to enable the sense amplifier. When this terminal is at high level tail current transistor T is turned on forming a discharge path between T T and reference level GND. The sense amplifier starts to perform resolving and establish output according to level of input signal.

Those skilled in the art can further alter the sense amplifier shown in in various ways. For example in a pre charge circuit of the sense amplifier comprising transistors T T T and a corresponding terminal PRECHARGE is added for pre charging the sense amplifier before it starts to operate so as to increase speed of the sense amplifier.

As an example the structure shown in will be used as a resolving portion of a sense amplifier for description below.

The circuit which comprises transistors T T T and T connected between power supply level VDD and GND in is a specific implementation of the circuit of SA output portion in . Wherein T and T constitute an inverter i.e. NOT gate. When T is turned off and T is turned on output terminal OUT outputs low level when T is turned on and T is turned off output terminal OUT outputs high level. When both T and T are turned off output terminal OUT is in a high resistance state.

As mentioned above output of the sense amplifier needs to go through GBL to reach pin of the SRAM chip. shows how the sense amplifier is connected to an output pin of the SRAM chip. Wherein the resolving portion of the sense amplifier employs the structure shown in and circuit of SA output portion employs the structure shown in . The output OUT of the sense amplifier is connected to GBL which is connected to an output circuit of the SRAM chip. The output circuit of the SRAM chip comprises an output latch and a N type transistor TD. Wherein one of source and drain of the N type transistor TD is connected to GBL and is further connected to input terminal of the output latch. The other of source and drain of the N type transistor TD is connected to reference level. Gate of the N type transistor TD is connected to an inverted restore signal RESTROEN. Output terminal of the output latch is connected to a pin of the chip.

The relevant procedure will be described in conjunction with the structure shown in . When there is no read or write operation on SRAM chip the sense amplifier is made to be inactive by setting SA ENABLE signal as 0. Pre charging of the sense amplifier is enabled by setting PRECHARGE signal as 0. Inputs DLT and DLC of the sense amplifier are pulled up to a voltage of power supply level via T T and T such that gate of transistor T is at reference level and gate of transistor T is at power supply level. As such both T and T are turned off such that output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier is in a high resistance state. Further the N type transistor TD is turned on by setting RESTOREN signal as 0 such that GBL is pulled down to default logic low level.

When a read operation is started RESTOREN signal is adjusted as 1 such that transistor TD is turned off. As such level of output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier can be reflected on GBL and in turn reflected on input terminal of the chip output latch.

During the read operation one SRAM cell corresponding to the sense amplifier is selected such that the stored logic value is outputted through BL and BLb. The PRECHARGE signal of the corresponding sense amplifier is adjusted as such that the sense amplifier is not pre charged any more. DLT and DLC perform resolving according to logic value outputted by the SRAM cell. For example if a logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 0 then DLC is kept at power supply level while DLT is discharged to a relative low level. After the sense amplifier is made to operate by changing SA ENABLE to 1 level difference between DLC and DLT is restored by the sense amplifier such that T is turned off and T is turned on thus forming logic low level at output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier. Similarly if a logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 then DLT is kept at power supply level while DLC is discharged to a relative low level. After sense amplifier is made to operate by changing SA ENABLE to 1 level difference between DLC and DLT is restored by the sense amplifier such that T is turned on and T is turned off thus forming logic high level at output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier.

After the read operation is over SA ENABLE signal is changed to 0 such that output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier is again changed to high resistance state. Accordingly PRECHARGE is changed to 0 such that pre charging of the sense amplifier is again enabled RESTOREN signal is changed 0 such that transistor TD is turned on causing level on GBL to be restored to logic low level.

It can be seen from the above description that before a read operation is started level on GBL is logic low level. If logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 0 then level on GBL remains unchanged during the read operation. If logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 then level on GBL is changed from logic low level to logic high level during the read operation and after the read operation is over level on GBL is restored from logic high level to logic low level. In case that output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier is far from the output latch of the chip the delay from OUT terminal becoming high level to input terminal of chip s output latch becoming high level will affect improvement in chip read speed.

Those skilled in the art can appreciate that multiple sense amplifiers may output to a same GBL. In the structure as described above when a sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being accessed outputs other sense amplifiers that input to the same GBL are kept at high resistance state. According to embodiments of the invention when a current sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being accessed outputs logic high level other sense amplifiers that output to the same GBL as the current sense amplifier are caused to also output logic high level such that driving capability of the sense amplifier on GBL is increased and the delay from OUT terminal becoming high level to input terminal of chip s output latch becoming high level is reduced.

As shown in OUTC and OUTT are not directly connected to SA output portion as shown in rather they are connected to input and input of the driving assist portion. The input and input of the driving assist portion have respectively replaced OUTC and OUTT in to connect to SA output portion.

When a read operation is performed on a SRAM cell corresponding to that sense amplifier the driving assist portion determines a signal outputted to SA output portion based on logic value stored in that SRAM. Specifically if logic value stored in that SRAM is 1 the driving assist portion outputs low level to gate of T via output such that T is turned on if logic value stored in that SRAM is 0 the driving assist portion outputs high level to gate of T via output such that T is turned off. Within the output driving portion input may be directly connected to output which is equivalent to still directly connecting OUT to SA output portion.

When read operation is performed on SRAM cells corresponding to other sense amplifiers the driving assist portion determines a signal outputted to gate of T based on signal on GBL. If signal on GBL is 1 the driving assist portion outputs low level to gate of T such that T is turned on. Thus input of the driving assist portion is connected to output OUT of sense amplifier i.e. to GBL.

As mentioned above RESTOREN is a global signal for pulling GBL down to reference level while there is no read operation. Optionally the RESTOREN signal may be used to distinguish the period during which a read operation is performed from the period during which a read operation is not performed. Since whether signal outputted to gate of T is determined based on output of SRAM cell or logic value on GBL they both occurs during the read operation therefore the RESTOREN signal may be used as an enable signal of the driving assist portion. Thus the driving assist portion may optionally comprise an enable signal input connected to the RESTOREN signal.

Those skilled in the art can appreciate that an interface between the driving assist portion and the resolving portion the SA output portion may be changed as needed. For example if the resolving portion outputs a single end signal input and input of the driving assist portion may be combined if the SA output portion receives a single end input signal output and output of the driving assist portion may also be combined.

Signal OUTC is connected to input of a first NAND gate. The input of the first NAND gate corresponds to input of the driving assist portion in . A global data bus after inverted by an inverter is connected to input of the first NAND gate. Input of the inverter corresponds to input of the driving assist portion in . Output of the first NAND gate is connected to input of a second NAND gate and RESTOREN is connected to input of the second NAND gate. The input of the second NAND gate corresponds to enable input of the driving assist portion in . Output of the second NAND gate is connected to gate of T. Output of the second NAND gate corresponds to output of the driving assist portion in . OUTT is connected to gates of T and T which is equivalent to connecting input of the driving assist portion directly to output of the driving assist portion in .

As mentioned above before a read operation is started RESTOREN signal is 0 such that GBL is pulled down to reference level i.e. logic value 0. Both DLT and DLC are pre charged to power supply level i.e. logic value 1. Accordingly in both inputs of the first NAND gate are 1 and output of the first NAND gate is 0 both inputs of the second NAND gate are 0 and output of the second NAND gate is 1. Accordingly T is turned off.

When a read operation is started RESTOREN is changed to 1 and input of the second NAND gate is changed to 1. Accordingly output of the second NAND gate depends on its input . Specifically the second NAND gate is equivalent to an inverter with respect to its input .

For a current sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being accessed if logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 then DLT is kept at power supply level and DLC is discharged to a relative low level. Accordingly OUTC is changed to logic low level i.e. logic value is 0 such that output of the first NAND gate i.e. input of the second NAND gate is changed to logic high level. Further output of the second NAND gate is changed to logic low level such that transistor T is turned on. Output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier outputs logic value 1.

For the other sense amplifiers their DLCs are still pre charged to power supply level and OUTC is logic high level i.e. logic value is 1. Since at this point logic value on GBL is 1 logic value of input of the first NAND gate is 0 such that output of the first NAND gate i.e. input of the second NAND gate is made to be logic high level. Further output of the second NAND gate is changed to logic low level such that transistor T is turned on. Signal strength of output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier is further enhanced and driving on back stage is enhanced.

With the structure as shown in when one of multiple sense amplifiers outputting to a same GBL outputs logic value 1 other sense amplifiers also output logic value 1 thereby driving GBL together. Under enhanced driving rate of GBL changing from default logic low level to logic high level is increased such that speed of the entire read operation is also increased.

In transistors T and T constitute a NOT gate transistors T T constitute a first NAND gate and transistors T T constitute a second NAND gate.

Gates of transistors T and T are used as input of the first NAND gate. Gates of transistors T and T are used as input of the first NAND gate. One of source and drain of transistor T is connected to power supply level and the other is connected to output node of the first NAND gate. One of source and drain of transistor T is connected to power supply level and the other is connected to output node of the first NAND gate. One of source and drain of transistor T is connected to reference level and the other is connected to transistor T. One of source and drain of transistor T is connected to output node of the first NAND gate and the other is connected to transistor T. Within the second NAND gate transistors T T correspond to transistors T T in the first NAND gate respectively.

Before a read operation is started RESTOREN is logic low level and GBL is pulled down to logic low level. In T is turned off and T is turned on such that output node of the second NAND gate outputs high level thus T is turned off.

For the sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being read if logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 OUTC is logic low level such that T is turned on and T is turned off thus output node of the first NAND gate outputs high level to gates of T and T. In case that gate is at high level T is turned off and T is turned on such that output node of the second NAND gate outputs low level to gate of T. Accordingly T is turned on such that high level is outputted at output terminal OUT.

For other sense amplifiers that output to the same GBL as the sense amplifier T is turned off and T is turned on after GBL is changed to logic high level. Accordingly the NOT gate outputs low level to gates of T and T and T is turned on and T is turned off such that output node of the first NAND gate outputs high level to gates of T and T. In case that gate is at high level T is turned off and T is turned on such that output node of the second NOT gate outputs low level to gate of T. Accordingly T is turned on such that output terminal OUT is further driven to high level.

After the read operation is over RESTOREN is restored to logic low level such that GBL is pulled down to logic low level. In T is turned off and T is turned on such that output node of the second NAND gate outputs high level thus T is turned off.

As shown in after OUTC passes the inverter it is connected to OR input of an OR NAND gate and output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier is connected to OR input of the OR NAND gate. RESTOREN signal is connected to AND input of the OR NAND gate. Output of the OR NAND gate is connected to gate of T. Input of the NOT gate corresponds to input of the driving assist portion in OR input of the OR NAND gate corresponds to input of the driving assist portion in output of the OR NAND gate corresponds to output of the driving assist portion in . AND input of the OR NAND gate is equivalent to the enable input of the driving assist portion in . OUTT is connected to gates of T and T which is equivalent to connecting input of the driving assist portion directly to output of the driving assist portion in .

As mentioned above before the read operation starts RESTOREN signal is 0 such that GBL is pulled down to reference level i.e. logic value 0. Both DLT and DLC are pre charged to power supply level i.e. logic value 1. Accordingly in both OR inputs of the OR first NAND gate are 0 and AND input of the OR NAND gate is also 0 and then output of the OR first NAND gate is 1. Accordingly T is turned off.

When the read operation is started RESTOREN is changed to 1 and AND input of the OR NAND gate is changed to 1. Accordingly output of the OR second NAND gate depends on its input. Specifically if any one of OR inputs of the OR NAND gates is 1 output of the OR NAND gate is 0 i.e. logic low level.

For the current sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being accessed if logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 DLT is kept at power supply level and DLC is discharged to a relative low level. Accordingly OUTC is changed to logic low level i.e. logic value is 0 one OR input of the OR NAND gate is changed to logic high level. Further output of the OR NAND gate is changed to logic low level such that transistor T is turned on. Output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier outputs logic value 1.

For other sense amplifiers that output to the same GBL as the sense amplifier their DLCs are still pre charged to power supply level and OUTC is logic high level i.e. logic value is 1 thus one OR input of the OR NAND gate is logic low level 0. However since logic value on GBL is 1 at this point logic value of the other OR input of the OR NAND gate is 1 such that output of the OR AND gate i.e. input of the second NAND gate is changed to logic low level thus transistor T is turned on. Output terminal OUT of the sense amplifier also outputs logic value 1 thereby enhancing the driving ability on GBL.

With the structure shown in the following can also be achieved when one of multiple sense amplifiers outputting to a same GBL outputs logic value 1 other sense amplifiers are also made to output logic value 1 thereby driving GBL together.

In transistors T and T constitute a NOT gate transistors T T constitute an OR NAND gate. Wherein gates of transistors T and T are used as OR input of the OR NAND gate and are connected to output of the NOT gate gates of transistors T and T are used as OR input of the OR NAND gate and are connected to GBL. Gates of T and T are used as AND input of the OR NAND gate and are connected to RESTORE. One of source and drain of each of T T T and T is connected to output node of the OR NAND gate. The other of source and drain of T is connected to one of source and drain of T and the other of source and drain of T is connected to power supply level. The other of source and drain of T is connected to power supply level. The other of source and drain of T and the other of source and drain of T are both connected to one of source and drain of T. The other of source and drain of T is connected to reference level.

Before a read operation is started RESTOREN is logic low level such that T is turned on and T is turned off. At this time output of the OR NAND gate is high level such that T is turned off.

After the read operation is started RESTOREN is logic high level such that T is turned off and T is turned on.

For the sense amplifier corresponding to a SRAM cell currently being read if logic value stored in the SRAM cell is 1 OUTC is logic low level and which after being inverted causing T being turned off and T being turned on. Since RESTOREN has caused T to be turned off and T to be turned on output node of the OR NAND gate outputs low level to gate of T. Accordingly T is turned on such that high level is outputted at output terminal OUT.

For other sense amplifiers that output to the same GBL as the sense amplifier T is turned on and T is turned off after GBL is changed to logic high level. Since RESTOREN has caused T to be turned off and T to be turned on output node of the OR NAND gate outputs low level to gate of T. Accordingly T is turned on such that high level is outputted at output terminal OUT.

In far end GBL i.e. RGBL represents signal at input terminal of chip s output latch. As mentioned above there may be a large distance between this location and output terminal of the sense amplifier. It can be seen from that signal s speed of rising from logic low level to logic high level at input terminal of chip s output latch is increased. Accordingly the period during which RESTOREN keeps may also be reduced. This means that the time of read operation is reduced.

As mentioned above in case that current sense amplifier is far away from input terminal of chip s output latch the present invention utilizes sense amplifiers near that current sense amplifier as assisted sense amplifiers and drive GBL together with that current sense amplifier. Those skilled in the art can appreciate that in the process that signal on GBL is changed from logic low level to logic high level that is during logic value 1 is propagated from output terminal of the current sense amplifier to input terminal of chip s output latch the nearer an assisted sense amplifier to the current sense amplifier the earlier it begin to drive the GBL due to GBL is changed to logic high level such that it has more contribution in increasing signal change rate at input terminal of chip s output latch. On the other hand only in case that current sense amplifier is far away from input terminal of chip s output latch there is a need for help from assisted sense amplifiers. Thus according to an embodiment of the invention a first threshold is set. For a sense amplifier whose distance to input terminal of chip s output latch exceeds the first threshold the structures shown in are used while for a sense amplifier whose distance to input terminal of chip s output latch does not exceed the first threshold traditional sense amplifier structure will be used. This on one hand may reduce additional area overhead due to adding the structures as shown in and on the other hand may reduce additional power consumption due to driving GBL concurrently by multiple sense amplifiers. The first threshold may be a distance from output terminal of the sense amplifier to input terminal of chip s output latch or may be number of other sense amplifiers between output terminal of the sense amplifier and input terminal of chip s output latch.

connecting bitline of a selected SRAM cell to input of a sense amplifier so as to determine output of the sense amplifier based on a logic value stored in the SRAM cell 

causing at least one other sense amplifier that outputs to the same global data bus as the sense amplifier to also output high level in case that the sense amplifier outputs high level.

As mentioned above enhanced driving capability may only be provided to those sense amplifiers which are far away from output pin of the chip. Accordingly at least one other sense amplifier that outputs to the same global data bus as the sense amplifier is caused to also output high level in case that a distance between the sense amplifier and output pin of the SRAM chip exceeds a first threshold.

Although respective devices of the invention have been described above in detail in connection with specific embodiments the invention is not limited thereto. Those skilled in the art can change alter and modify the invention in various ways upon taught by the description without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. It should be appreciated that all such changes alterations and modifications still fall into protection scope of the invention defined by appended claims.

