---

title: Camera-based portal content security
abstract: The disclosure generally describes computer-implemented methods, software, and systems for providing a camera-based portal content security mechanism for client devices. One computer-implemented method includes receiving a request for portal content from a client device, determining that the requested portal content requires a camera security operation, notifying the client device that a camera image is needed as a prerequisite to display at least part of the requested portal content, receiving the camera image from the client device, and analyzing, by operation of a computer, the received camera image for more than one viewer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117066&OS=09117066&RS=09117066
owner: SAP Portals Israel Ltd
number: 09117066
owner_city: Ra'anana
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20130114
---
A web portal application may use various authentication methods to restrict user access to confidential portal content on a client device. Authentication methods can include for example a user name password cookies sessions various codes protocols encryption and or other suitable authentication methods. Web portals however do not currently have an ability to restrict unauthorized viewer access to requested and or currently viewed confidential portal content based on image data obtained by a client device based camera. As a result confidential portal content could be improperly viewed on the client device by an unauthorized viewer regardless of the use of suitable authentication method by an authorized viewer.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods software and systems for providing a camera based portal content security mechanism for client devices. One computer implemented method includes receiving a request for portal content from a client device determining that the requested portal content requires a camera security operation notifying the client device that a camera image is needed as a prerequisite to display at least part of the requested portal content receiving the camera image from the client device and analyzing by operation of a computer the received camera image for more than one viewer.

Other implementations of this aspect include corresponding computer systems apparatus and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes or causes the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The foregoing and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein the determination that the requested portal content requires a camera security operation includes identifying an object attribute classifying the portal content as confidential wherein the object attribute invoking the request for the camera image from the client device.

A second aspect combinable with the general implementation further comprising activating the client device camera attempting to take a camera image using the client device camera and determining whether the camera image was obtained.

A third aspect combinable with the general implementation further comprising upon a determination that more than one viewer is detected in the analyzed camera image transmitting the requested portal content to the client device transmitting an instruction to the client device to obscure a confidential portion of the requested portal content and obscuring the confidential portion of the requested portal content.

A fourth aspect combinable with the general implementation further comprising upon a determination that only one viewer is detected in the analyzed camera image serving the requested portal content to the client device and displaying the served requested portal content on the client device.

A fifth aspect combinable with the general implementation further comprising providing a graphical user interface to allow additional input of credentials to release the confidential portion of the requested portal content from obscuration.

A sixth aspect combinable with the general implementation wherein the additional input of credentials comprises at least one of a password and a fingerprint.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in particular implementations so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. First the camera based portal content security mechanism can allow confidential portal content to be protected from unintended or unauthorized access when more than one viewer is detected. For example certain confidential portal content may be limited for access by only one viewer. In order to view confidential portal content the viewer must be determined to alone in terms of viewing the confidential portal content. If image data captured by a client device camera indicates that more than one viewer is attempting to view the confidential portal content e.g. facial recognition detection of cameras eyeglasses etc. the confidential portal content can be obscured. Second the viewer can override the obscuring action to allow more than one viewer to view the confidential portal content. Third the identities of all viewers can be determined and logged based upon detected facial biometric data. Fourth baseline image biometric data can be collected and used to enhance viewer detection accuracy and efficiency. Other advantages will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The disclosure generally describes computer implemented methods software and systems for providing a camera based portal content security mechanism for client devices. The camera based portal content security mechanism enables an authorized single viewer using a client device accessing a portal to view portal content including non confidential and or confidential data. The camera based security mechanism also obfuscates known confidential information in displayed portal content if another viewer is detected in image data obtained by the client device camera. For example an authorized viewer may need to access on a client device particular portal content including confidential information in a public place such as an airport train station or other similar place with numerous people and or unavoidable crowds where an unauthorized secondary or other viewer may inadvertently purposely view portal content on the client device. The camera based security mechanism can monitor the surroundings of the authorized user with one or more viewer facing cameras. If an additional viewer or optical devices for example a whole partial face eye eyes camera lenses eyeglasses etc. are detected the camera based security mechanism can temporarily obfuscate displayed confidential portal content in order to prevent a security breach. The authorized viewer has the option to override the obfuscated portal content for example using a graphical user interface GUI .

For the purposes of this disclosure an authorized viewer may request portal content using an enterprise portal EP . An EP is a framework for integrating information people and processes across organizational boundaries. An EP provides a secure unified access point often in the form of a web based user interface and is designed to aggregate and personalize information through application specific sub portals. The EP is a de centralized content contribution and content management system which keeps the information always updated. With only a web browser EP users can begin work once they have been authenticated in the EP which offers a single point of access to information enterprise applications and services both inside and outside an organization. EPs may present information from diverse sources on mobile or other devices in a unified and structured way and provide additional services such as dashboards an internal search engine e mail news navigation tools and various other features. EPs are often used by enterprises for providing their employees customers and possibly additional users with a consistent look and feel and access control and procedures for multiple applications which otherwise would have been separate entities altogether.

At a high level the EPS is an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data and information associated with the example distributed computing system . Generally the EPS allows users to view compose modify delete and deploy enterprise portal pages. Specifically the described computer implemented methods software and systems provide functionality for providing a camera based portal content security for client devices using one or more client device cameras and a GUI providing an EP user with an efficient user friendly and secure presentation of data provided by or communicated within the example distributed computing system .

The EPS is responsible for receiving application requests for example EP content requests from one or more client applications described below associated with a particular client of the example distributed computing system and responding to the received requests by processing the received EP content requests in a content provider manager described below and sending an appropriate response from the content provider manager back to the requesting client application . In addition to requests from the client requests associated with the content provider manager may also be sent from internal users external or third party customers other automated applications as well as any other appropriate entities individuals systems or computers. According to one implementation the EPS may also include or be communicably coupled with an e mail server a web server a caching server a streaming data server and or other suitable server.

The EPS contains a content provider manager and a server capture analyzer engine SCAE At least a portion of the content provider manager and the SCAE is executed using requests responses sent from to a client within and communicably coupled to the illustrated example distributed computing system using network . In some implementations requests responses can be sent directly to EPS from a user accessing EPS directly. In some implementations the EPS may store a plurality of various content provider managers and SCAEs . In some implementations the EPS may comprise a web server where one or more of the components of EPS represent web based applications accessed and executed by the client using the network or directly at the EPS to perform the programmed tasks or operations of the various components of the EPS .

In some implementations any and or all of components of the EPS both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or an interface described below using an application programming interface API and or a service layer . The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the example distributed computing system . The functionality of the EPS may be accessible for all service consumers using this service layer. Software services such as provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format.

While illustrated as an integrated component of the EPS in the example distributed computing system alternative implementations may illustrate the API and or service layer as a stand alone component in relation to other components of the example distributed computing system . Moreover any or all parts of the API and or service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The EPS includes an interface . Although illustrated as a single interface in two or more interfaces may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the example distributed computing system . The interface is used by the EPS for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the example distributed computing system connected to the network for example the client as well as other systems not illustrated communicably coupled to the network . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated example distributed computing system .

The EPS includes a processor . Although illustrated as a single processor in two or more processors may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the example distributed computing system . Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the EPS . Specifically the processor executes the functionality required to provide camera based portal content security for client devices.

The EPS also includes a memory that holds data for the enterprise server . Although illustrated as a single memory in two or more memories may be used according to particular needs desires or particular implementations of the example distributed computing system . While memory is illustrated as an integral component of the EPS in alternative implementations memory can be external to the EPS and or the example distributed computing system . In some implementations the memory i.e. the content repository for the ERP that holds the description and or data for all objects in the EPS includes one or more instances of a content object content and a user configuration .

The content object can be considered a representation of a business non business entity such as an employee an employee list a sales order an invoice a financial report etc. The content object may encompass both functions for example in the form of methods and data such as one or more properties and or associated content described below . For example content objects may reduce system complexity by reducing a system into smaller units. The implementation details of content objects are typically hidden from a non development user and may be accessed through the defined functions and encapsulated data. Content objects also form a point of entry of the functions and data of a system and enable the system to easily share communicate display or otherwise operate with other systems. A content object may also be considered the target of a request for data for example a navigation node in an EP a web page or the final destination of a navigation action etc. and may contain the view to be displayed when the content object is accessed. In some implementations the content object can control the location of a selected view personalized views for a specific EP user and dynamic views. In some implementations metadata not illustrated may be used to determine the context of a particular displayed view and or content object .

In some implementations the content object may include properties indicating confidentiality of the object and or associated content. Some confidential content objects may be managed by the content provider manager and or the SCAE e.g. granting or denying access to one or more content objects . In some implementations the existence of a confidentiality property is used to determine whether a camera associated with a client device must be used to view properties and or content associated with a content object. In other implementations more than one property for example a confidentiality property and a camera required property can be used to determine that the camera associated with a client device must be used to view properties and or content associated with the content object.

The content is encountered as part of the user experience when accessing a content object within an EP. The content may include among other things text images sounds videos animations and or the like. While illustrated as integrated with memory of the EPS in the example distributed computing system in alternative implementations the content can be external to the EPS and or the example distributed computing system for example associated with external content providers not illustrated or can be internal to the EPS for example stored within the content object itself. The content may further include data entries items or general information that can be defined as confidential. Some confidential content may be managed by the content provider manager and or the SCAE e.g. granting or denying access to content . In some implementations content can contain properties apart from an associated content object indicating the confidential nature of the content and or whether a camera based portal content security mechanism is required to view the content .

The user configuration is data associated with an EP EPS user. The user configuration data may include for example the EP EPS user s reference image data such as facial recognition nodal points and or other biometric data for use with image processing such as photographs or videos of the user in different view angles and in different surroundings . In other implementations the user configuration data can include EP EPS username department position salary hire date a role system password contact information location locale and other suitable data. The user s reference image data may be used in the SCAE for analyzing accessibility based on client device camera captured information. In some implementations location is a dynamic property of a content object that can be extracted from a location enabled client device for example a mobile telephone computer etc. and could change while the location enabled client device is traveling. In some implementations the location can be used to define whether image data is required for the viewing of EP content on a client device. In some implementations the user configuration can be used by the SCAE described below event framework described below and or the sever capture analyzer engine to provide camera based portal content security for client devices. In these implementations the user configuration can also be used to provide predetermined hover data to the EPS content displayed by the client application described below .

The content provider manager can be any application program module process or other software that may execute change delete generate or otherwise manage content associated with the EPS a content provider not illustrated and or a particular client . For example the content provider manager can manage business process related content on the EPS and or the client in response to a received request from the client . For example the content provider manager may be a portal application a business application and or other suitable application consistent with this disclosure. A content provider may be for example applications and data on the EPS and or external services business applications business application servers databases RSS feeds document servers web servers streaming servers caching servers or other suitable content sources. In some implementations the content provider manager allows connections to various content providers queries the content provider with regards to provided content and enables a user to view add edit and or delete content associated with the EPS . The content provider manager may interact with the SCAE to determine if certain security criteria are satisfied for granting access to confidential content.

In some implementations the content provider manager can use content provider manager data not illustrated or other above describe data stored in memory for example user configuration data to perform tasks associated with the EPS or other components of the example distributed computing system . Content provider manager data may include any type of data associated with and or used by the content provider manager including content provider locations addresses storage specifications content lists access requirements or other suitable data. For example for a database content provider the content provider manager data may include the server Internet Protocol IP address Uniform Resource Locator URL access permission requirements data download speed specifications etc. Once a particular content provider manager is launched a client may interactively process a task event or other information associated with the EPS using content provided by the particular content provider manager .

Additionally a particular content provider manager may operate in response to and in connection with at least one request received from other content provider managers including a content provider manager associated with another EPS . In some implementations the content provider manager can be and or include a web browser. In some implementations each content provider manager can represent a network based application accessed and executed using the network e.g. through the Internet or using at least one cloud based service associated with the content provider manager . For example a portion of a particular content provider manager may be a Web service associated with the content provider manager that is remotely called while another portion of the content provider manager may be an interface object or agent bundled for processing at a remote client . Moreover any or all of a particular content provider manager may be a child or sub module of another software module or enterprise application not illustrated without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Still further portions of the particular content provider manager may be executed or accessed by a user working directly at the EPS as well as remotely at a corresponding client .

The SCAE provides a camera based portal content security mechanism to the content provider manager SCAE based on the image data captured using the camera of the client to determine if any content security procedures e.g. obscuring confidential data need to be engaged. For example the SCAE can analyze image data that includes image information of one or more EP content viewers and determine if the camera based portal security mechanism needs be engaged who the EP content viewers are how many viewers there are what particular location the client device is at etc. An authorized user may access the EPS from the client and request EP content . The content provider manager can handle the request and determine whether the requested content is protected by camera based security by analyzing properties of requested content s associated content object and or properties directly associated with the content. If the requested content is protected by a camera based portal content security mechanism the EPS requests an image or a video clip from the client camera. The client may then capture the image or video clip and preprocess the data to identify whether there is more than one viewer using the client . If more than one viewer is detected the image or video clip data can be sent to the SCAE for analysis. The analysis can include for example confirmation of one or more viewers. Based on the SCAE analysis the content provider manager can send instructions to the client to hide confidential content associated with the request to client device .

The illustrated example distributed computing system also includes a client . The client may be any computing device operable to connect to or communicate with at least the EPS using the network . In general the client comprises an electronic computer device operable to receive transmit process and store any appropriate data associated with the example distributed computing system .

The illustrated client further includes a client application . The client application is any type of application that allows the client to request view edit and or delete content on the client as well as to interact with the client including through the use of a camera . In some implementations the client application can be and or include a web browser. In some implementations the client application can use parameters metadata and other information received at launch to access a particular set of data from the EPS . Once a particular client application is launched a user may interactively process a task event or other information associated with the EPS . Further although illustrated as a single client application the client application may be implemented as multiple client applications in the client . In some implementations the client application may act as a GUI interface for the content provider manager and or other components of EPS and or other components of the example distributed computing environment .

In some implementations the client application works with a client capture analyzer engine CCAE to determine whether received content is to be displayed or obscured on the client . For example if the CCAE determines that there is more than one viewer in the camera s field of view it can instruct the client application to obscure indicated confidential information and instruct the camera to retrieve and send image data to the EPS .

The CCAE can be any application program module process or other software that may execute change delete generate or otherwise manage information associated with a particular client . Specifically the CCAE is an application providing functionality for receiving image data from a camera associated with a client when the camera based portal content security mechanism is engaged for certain confidential content.

In some implementations the CCAE can also perform pre processing functions on the received image data e.g. processing the image data prior to sending the data to the SCAE on the EPS . In some implementations the pre processed data can be used on the client and or the EPS to enhance performance of the client application and or the EPS . In some implementations the EPS sends requests for image data and or indications to the client that image data is required when the EP EPS user s content request involves confidential content indicated as protected by a camera based portal content security mechanism. The CCAE can respond to the EPS s request indications by initiating the camera . A preliminary processing of the captured image data can be performed by the CCAE to determine whether more than one viewer is detected. In some implementations the CCAE can perform a calibration operation on the camera . For example the user can record a series of self reference images at various face angles and in different surroundings to allow the CCAE to identify the user with high accuracy. The reference images may enable the CCAE to record analyze key features of the user s facial characteristics e.g. distances between eyes nose mouth etc. facial recognition nodal points and to use the recorded analyzed key features to contrast other unwanted features such as additional eyes corrective lenses camera lenses etc. In some implementations the CCAE can perform a calibration operation in partnership with the client application . The CCAE may be a client application and or other suitable application consistent with this disclosure. In some implementations the SCAE and or the CCAE may wholly or partially perform the same operations and or other operations depending at least in part upon whether executing upon the client or the EPS .

Additionally a particular CCAE may operate in response to and in connection with at least one request received from other CCAEs including a CCAE associated with another client . In some implementations the CCAE can include a web browser. In some implementations each CCAE can represent a network based application accessed and executed using the network e.g. through the Internet or using at least one cloud based service associated with the CCAE . For example a portion of a particular CCAE may be a Web service associated with the CCAE that is remotely called while another portion of the CCAE may be an interface object or agent bundled for processing at a remote client . Moreover any or all of a particular CCAE may be a child or sub module of another software module or enterprise application not illustrated without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Still further portions of the particular CCAE may be executed or accessed by a user working directly at the client as well as remotely at a corresponding client .

Camera is operable to capture image of general viewers external to client . In some implementations camera can use a lens assembly to focus light onto an electronic image sensor and digitally record image information into memory in various digital file formats. For example digital file formats used to record the image information may be JPG GIF BMP TIFF PNG AVI DV MPEG MOV WMV RAW or other suitable digital file format. In some implementations the electronic image sensor can be a charge coupled device CCD an active pixel sensor CMOS or other suitable electronic image sensor. Camera may provide a live preview of the external image source to be photographed. Camera may also provide optical and or digital zoom functionality and panoramic images in both two and three dimensions. In other implementations the recorded image information can be both still and video with sound.

Camera can capture image data of a particular one or more EP content viewer facing the display of the client e.g. using a front facing camera . For example the camera can be a wide angle e.g. an angle of view being larger than 90 degrees camera embedded in the front frame of the client device . The field of view of the camera may cover a reasonable area behind and to the sides of the location of the EP content viewer when the EP content viewer is viewing the display or GUI on the client device . In some implementations the field of view of the camera may be tailored with the display on the client device to allow for visibility limited to viewing within the field of view e.g. with a polarized display special eyewear light etc. .

In some implementations image data recorded by camera may also be transferred over network to a remote data storage location not illustrated instead of being stored in memory . Although illustrated as integral to client camera may also be physically or communicably connected to client . For example camera may be inserted into or connected to e.g. by a cable wireless connection etc. an interface port not illustrated on client . While the client is illustrated as containing a single camera alternative implementations of client may include any number of cameras in any orientation configuration and with any field of view suitable to the purposes of the example distributed computing system and particularly the requirements to protect confidential EP content.

The illustrated client is intended to encompass any computing device such as a desktop computer laptop notebook computer wireless data port smart phone personal data assistant PDA tablet computing device one or more processors within these devices or any other suitable processing device. For example the client may comprise a computer that includes a camera an input device such as a keypad touch screen or other device that can accept user information and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of the EPS or the client itself including digital data visual information or a GUI as shown with respect to the client .

The illustrated client further includes an interface a processor and a memory . The interface is used by the client for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the example distributed computing system connected to the network for example the EPS as well as other systems not illustrated communicably coupled to the network . The interface may also be consistent with the above described interface of the EPS or other interfaces within the example distributed computing system . The processor may be consistent with the above described processor of the EPS or other processors within the example distributed computing system . Specifically the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the client including the functionality required to send requests to the EPS and to receive and process responses from the EPS . The memory may be consistent with the above described memory of the EPS or other memories within the example distributed computing system but storing objects and or data associated with the purposes of the client . Memory is also shown to contain user configuration . User configuration may be consistent with the above described user configuration but containing data associated specifically with the purposes of the client . In some implementations user configuration may be kept wholly and or partially consistent with user configuration by the EPS and or the client .

Further the illustrated client includes a GUI . The GUI interfaces with at least a portion of the example distributed computing system for any suitable purpose including generating a visual representation of a web browser. The GUI may be used to view and navigate various web pages located both internally and externally to the EPS as well as to view both non confidential and confidential portal content in any format. In particular the GUI may be used to perform functions for providing a camera based portal content security for client devices.

There may be any number of clients associated with or external to the example distributed computing system . For example while the illustrated example distributed computing system includes one client communicably coupled to the EPS using network alternative implementations of the example distributed computing system may include any number of clients suitable to the purposes of the example distributed computing system . Additionally there may also be one or more additional clients external to the illustrated portion of the example distributed computing system that are capable of interacting with the example distributed computing system using the network . Further the term client and user may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Moreover while the client is described in terms of being used by a single user this disclosure contemplates that many users may use one computer or that one user may use multiple computers.

In the client camera view includes an additional viewer behind and to the side of the viewer . The additional viewer may be wholly and or partially included in the client camera view . For example viewer may only have part of their face an eye etc. in the client camera view . In addition to detecting the presence of viewer the client camera view can also be used to identify facial features and or the identity of the second viewer . Upon detection of the second viewer the CCAE and or the SCAE can provide instructions or signals to the client and or EPS to obscure any confidential portal content displayed on the client .

In the GUI illustrates the window where additional viewers or viewing instruments are detected. For preventing security breach the confidential content will be obscured and a warning dialog obscuring the confidential portal content is presented to indicate that access to the confidential content is denied. In some implementations the camera based portal content security mechanism may be overridden by additional authentication measures as further discussed with respect to .

In some implementations an identified second viewer for example viewer described in can be determined to have sufficient administrative privileges role etc. to view the confidential portal content displayed on the client . In these instances the confidential portal content can be displayed without any obscuring action method or a warning dialog and or other obscuring action method can be used to initially obscure the confidential portal content and requiring at least one of the authorized viewers to override the obscuring action. In some instances a note comment etc. not illustrated can be associated with the warning dialog and or obscuring action method notifying that the second detected viewer is an authorized viewer. In some instances the second detected viewer can be specifically identified by name role department and or other suitable information.

Referring to at the EPS receives a request for portal content from a client device. From method proceeds to .

At a determination is made whether the requested portal content requires camera security. In some implementations the determination that the requested portal content requires camera security includes identifying an object attribute classifying the portal content as confidential wherein the object attribute invoking the request for the camera image from the client device. If at it is determined that the requested portal content does not require camera security method proceeds to . If at it is determined that the requested portal content does require camera security method proceeds to .

At the EPS serves the requested portal content to the requesting client device. In some implementations the requested portal content can contain confidential information that does not require camera security. After method stops.

At the client device that a camera image is needed from the client device as a prerequisite to display at least part of the requested portal content. The camera image is needed to allow processing to be performed on the camera image to determine if for example there is more than one viewer of the requested portal content. From method proceeds to .

At the client device activates a camera to gather image data. In some implementations if the camera cannot be activated an error message can be sent to the EPS of this fact. From method proceeds to .

At a determination is made whether the client device was able to obtain image data. If at it is determined that the client device was able to obtain image data method proceeds to . If at it is determined that the client device was not able to obtain image data method proceeds to illustrated in .

At the EPS transmits the requested portal content to the client device. In some implementations the EPS does not transmit the requested portal content to the client device or only the non confidential portal content. From method proceeds to .

At the EPS transmits an instruction to the client device to hide confidential data. From method proceeds to .

At the client device obscures confidential portal content data in the received portal content because camera image data was not able to be obtained. From method proceeds to .

At the client device displays portal content it is permitted to display. In some implementations the obscured data is displayed as obscured with a warning dialog or other suitable method to obscure confidential portal content. In some implementations the obscured confidential portal content can be overridden regardless of the inability to obtain camera image data. From method proceeds to .

At a determination is made whether an override was entered on the client device to display obscured portal content. If at it is determined that an override was not entered on the client device to display obscured portal content method proceeds to . If at it is determined that an override was entered on the client device to display obscured portal content method proceeds to .

At the client device displays confidential portal content data. From method proceeds to illustrated in .

At the client device analyzes camera image data for more than one viewer. From method proceeds to illustrated in .

At a determination is made whether more than one viewer is detected. If at it is determined that more than one viewer is detected method proceeds to . If at it is determined that more than one viewer is not detected method proceeds to .

At the received camera image data is analyzed. In some implementations the analysis can be for multiple viewers viewer identification or other suitable data consistent with this disclosure. From method proceeds to .

At a determination is made whether the request for portal content is a new request. If at it is determined that the request for portal content is a new request method proceeds to . If at it is determined that the request for portal content is not a new request method proceeds to .

At a determination is made whether the request for portal content is a new request. If at it is determined that the request for portal content is not a new request method proceeds to illustrated in . If at it is determined that the request for portal content is a new request method proceeds to .

At requested portal content is displayed on the client device. From method proceeds to illustrated in .

Although the disclosure describes the example distributed computing system in terms of an EP those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter could apply to any type of content delivery system including a content delivery system that is not an EP. The disclosure is not meant to limit the applicability to other content delivery systems in any way.

In some implementation the example distributed computing system and more particularly the SCAE and or CCAE can also specifically identify one or more viewers in received image data containing one or more viewers. The identification could be used to determine whether the identified viewers primary and or secondary are authorized to view EP content. If so in some implementation any confidential content will not be obscured even if more than one viewer is detected and or can be only partially obscured depending upon a determined authorization level of each the identified viewer.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU a FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU a FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

