---

title: System and method for displaying market information and order placement in an electronic trading environment
abstract: A system and method are provided for displaying a trading screen and placing an order in an electronic trading environment. The system and method may be used to assist a trader in selecting an item of interest, such as the inside market (best bid and best ask) to be displayed relative to a user configured location on the trading screen, such as the center of the trading screen. In a preferred embodiment, the inside market will stay located relative to center of the trading screen and the price levels associated to the inside market will move as the market conditions fluctuate. Other features and advantages are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775293&OS=08775293&RS=08775293
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc
number: 08775293
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130801
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 688 697 filed Nov. 29 2012 and issued on Sep. 24 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 543 492 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 462 872 filed May 3 2012 and issued on Jan. 1 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 346 656 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 164 947 filed on Jun. 21 2011 and issued on Jun. 5 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 195 562 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 914 347 filed Oct. 28 2010 and issued on Aug. 2 2011 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 991 678 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 490 940 filed on Jun. 24 2009 and issued on Dec. 7 2010 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 848 990 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 321 831 filed Dec. 29 2005 and issued on Jul. 21 2009 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 565 317. The entire disclosure contents of these applications are herewith incorporated by reference into the present application.

The present invention is directed to electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards a system and method for assisting a trader in placing orders and displaying market information in an electronic trading environment.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers referred to as traders meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network. An electronic exchange typically provides computerized matching between traders. Some example electronic exchanges include European Exchange Eurex London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME and Chicago Board of Trade CBOT .

With respect to electronic exchanges traders connect to an electronic trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected traders typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

User terminals also referred to as client devices are connected to the electronic trading platform by way of a communication link to facilitate electronic messaging between the trading entities and the exchange. The messaging includes market information that is distributed from the electronic exchange to traders as well as orders quotes acknowledgements fills cancels deletes cancel and replace and other well known financial transaction messages. Although the amount or type of market information published by the exchange often differs there are some standard pieces of information. For instance market information usually includes the inside market which generally refers to the current lowest sell price also referred to as the best ask and the current highest buy price also referred to as the best bid . Market information may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available in the market at the price levels other than those corresponding to the inside market. In addition to providing order book information including order price and quantity information electronic exchanges can offer other types of market information such as the open price settlement price net change volume last traded price last traded quantity and order fill information.

Once the client device receives the market information it may be displayed on the trading screen. Upon viewing the market information traders can take certain actions including the actions of sending buy or sell orders to the electronic exchange adjusting existing orders deleting orders or otherwise managing orders. There are a variety of different order types that a trader can enter in the electronic market. Traders may also use software tools to automate these and additional actions.

To profit in today s rapidly moving markets traders must be able to react quickly and assimilate enormous amounts of data. For example a trader may wish to review market data world news business news and so on before making trades. Consequently the trading screen and the tools provided to the trader via a trading screen are extremely important when trading in an electronic trading environment and should reflect a trader s preference or style of trading. Depending on the preference or style of trading some trading screens are better suited than others.

A conventional market grid window displays the inside market and the market depth of a given commodity in a traditional manner. Specifically the market grid window displays a first row which contains the inside market information. Typically the first set of columns of the first row contains the best bid price and quantity while the second set of columns of the first row contains the best ask price and quantity. And if so desired the market grid window can also display market depth under the first row. For instance the bid side market depth is displayed under the best bid price in the first column and the ask side market depth is displayed under the best ask price in the second column. The columns are displayed vertically such that the bid and ask prices descend the grid. The bid prices descend the market grid as the prices decrease and the ask prices also descend the market grid while the prices actually increase.

An advantage of the conventional market grid window is that by displaying the inside market on a single row many tradeable objects can be displayed on a single screen. Another advantage of the market grid window is that the inside market is always in view in the first row even if the market is moving up or down in value. It should be understood that the term market can refer to the inside market or the last traded price LTP . Unfortunately displaying the market on a single row makes trading in a fast moving market much more difficult to track. Additionally the ask prices descend the market grid. Therefore this screen lacks the intuitiveness required to watch the market flow in up or down directions.

Other trading screens flip the ask side column and place it on top of the bid side column. The advantage of this screen is that the inside market still remains in the center and the ask prices now ascend the market grid as the prices increase thereby correcting one of the disadvantages of the previous screen. However this type of trading screen still suffers the same disadvantage as its predecessor namely that it can still be difficult to view the flow of the market.

Some other trading screens provide an axis of prices in which quantities may be displayed along side their prices. As the market moves up or down in value the trader may view the bid and ask indicators as they move relative to the price axis to provide an intuitive view of the market. While there are some tools to keep the market in view e.g. providing a re centering option and so on this type of trading screen can let the market run away when the market shifts so rapidly that it disappears from the visible space of the trading screen.

Other trading screens might use an axis of prices but slowly shift the price axis such that the market is moved back to a user configured location on the screen as the market fluctuates. However this shifting can actually misrepresent the current flow and condition of the market. For example as the trading screen slowly shifts the inside market down to a user configured location the current condition of the market could actually be going up and the trader would not know. Similarly as the trading screen slowly shifts the inside market up to a user configured location the current condition of the market could actually be going down. Shifting the market back to a user configured location on the trading screen sometimes shifting in the proper direction with the market and sometimes shifting opposite of the market can be unpredictable and may lead to confusion.

Each trading screen has its advantages and its disadvantages depending on the trader s preference and style of trading. It is therefore desirable to offer traders alternative style trading displays that may be more in tune to their preference or style of trading.

The present application describes example embodiments that include a method system for use in displaying market data on a trading screen and placing an order using the trading screen in an electronic exchange. The example trading screen displays the market in a center position or near the center position so that the market and price levels around the market can be easily found while still maintaining an intuitive view of the market.

To provide an intuitive view of the market indicators are used to highlight movement of a value axis. While the market remains centered the value axis is shown to move relative to the static display of the market. In other words the market is fixed and according to the market s frame of reference the value axis is shown to move up or down through the use of indicators depending on the market s movement.

The example embodiments can be employed to effectively and efficiently place an order in an electronic exchange while overcoming some of the disadvantages of trading screens currently offered to traders. The example embodiment allows a trader to place an order without having a problem of the market running away. Thus the trader can easily place an order at the market or at prices around the market. Additionally through the use of market indicators it will be more predictable and apparent to the trader in which direction the market is moving.

While the example embodiments are described herein with reference to the illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the example embodiments are not limited thereto. Other systems methods features and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The computer employed as the trading station generally can range from a hand held device laptop or personal computer to a larger computer such as a workstation and multiprocessor. Generally the trading station includes a monitor or any other output device and an input device such as a keyboard and or a two or three button mouse to support click based trading if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer employed for the trading station and will be able to select an appropriate system.

The computer employed as the gateway generally can range from a personal computer to a larger computer. Generally the gateway may additionally include a monitor or any other output device input device for example a keyboard mouse etc. and access to a database if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will also understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer s employed for the gateway and will be able to select an appropriate system.

It should be noted that a computer system that may be employed here as a trading station or a gateway generally includes a central processing unit a memory unit a primary and or secondary memory unit an input interface for receiving data from a communications network an input interface for receiving input signals from one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. and an output interface for communications with an output device for example a monitor . A system bus or an equivalent system may provide communications between these various elements.

It should also be noted that the trading station generally executes application programs resident at the trading station under the control of the operating system of the trading station . Also the gateway executes application programs resident at the gateway under the control of the operating system of the gateway . In other embodiments and as understood by a person skilled in the art the function of the application programs at the trading station may be performed by the gateway and likewise the function of the application programs at the gateway may be performed by the trading station .

The actual electronic trading system configurations are numerous and a person skilled in the art of electronic trading systems would be able to construct a suitable network configuration. For the purposes of illustration some example configurations are provided to illustrate where the elements may be physically located and how they might be connected to form an electronic trading system these illustrations are meant to be helpful to the reader and they are not meant to be limiting. According to one example illustration the gateway device may be located at the client site along with the trading station which is usually remote from the matching process at the electronic exchange. According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may communicate over a local area network and the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange over a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration the client site may be located on the actual grounds of the electronic exchange for example in the building of the exchange . According to this example illustration the trading station the gateway and the router may still communicate over a local area network but the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange through another connection means besides a T1 T3 or ISDN.

In yet another example illustration the gateway may be housed at or near its corresponding electronic exchange . According to this instance the trading station may communicate with the gateway over a wide area network or through the use of a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration the gateway may be located remote from the trading station and remote from the electronic exchange which might be particularly useful in systems that include interconnection of multiple trading networks. Thus one trading network might have gateway access to an electronic exchange. Then other trading networks may communicate with the trading network that has gateway access through a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

The trading system presented in provides the trader with the opportunity to trade tradeable objects listed at different electronic exchanges. To some traders there can be many advantages with a multi exchange trading environment. For example a trader could view market information from each tradeable object through one common visual display. As such price and quantity information from the two separate exchanges may be presented together so that the trader can view both markets simultaneously in the same window.

As indicated earlier one skilled in the art of electronic trading systems will understand that the present embodiments are not limited to the particular configurations illustrated and described with respect to and and will be able to design a particular electronic trading system based on the specific requirements for example by adding additional exchanges gateways trading stations routers or other computers serving various functions like message handling and security . Additionally several networks like either of the networks shown in or may be linked together to communicatively access one or more electronic exchanges.

Preferably trading application has access to market information from one or more exchanges through API or application programming interface and trading application can also forward transaction information to exchange via API . Alternatively API could be distributed so that a portion of the API rests on the trading station and a gateway similar to the type of gateways and shown in and or at the exchange . Additionally trading application may receive signals from input device via input device interface and can be given the ability to send signals to display device via display device interface .

Alternatively the example embodiments described herein may be a separate program from trading application but still stored in memory and executed on the trading station . In another alternative embodiment the preferred embodiments may be a program stored in memory and executed on a device other than trading station . Example devices may include a gateway or some other well known intermediary device.

The trading station may use software that creates the trading screen on the trading station . The trading screen enables the user to enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screens varies according to the specific software application being run. Example trading screens will be described below in reference to the subsequent figures.

The trading screen also includes a bid quantity column and an ask quantity column that display bid and ask quantity indicators respectively. The bid and ask quantity indicators are displayed in the locations that correspond to their respective value or price levels along the value axis . The best bid and best ask quantity indicators are kept centered on the trading screen by moving the prices of the value axis . By looking at the trading screen the trader can quickly locate the inside market which as mentioned earlier refers to the highest bid price best bid and the lowest ask price best ask and in trading screen shown in corresponds to the prices of 32 and 33 respectively. Further using the trading screen a trader can view how much quantity is available at various price levels. For example following the best bid and the best ask there is a bid quantity of 77 at the price level of 31 and an ask quantity of 29 at the price level of 34 . Other levels of market depth are also shown as illustrated in .

The trading screen also shows additional parameters such as a working quantity column that illustrates a trader s working order icons. For instance a working buy order indicator is shown having an order quantity of 10 at the price level of 30 . A last traded quantity column is also displayed which includes the last traded quantity indicator corresponding to the quantity of 5 that was traded at a price level of 35 . In addition to the indicators described above the trading screen includes a default quantity field a number of quantity selection icons a clear all CLR icon a delete all order Del All icon and market movement indicators and . It should be understood that additional indicators could be provided in relation to trading screen and what is actually shown in trading screen may be user configurable.

In the example embodiment a trader configures the trading screen to display the market in a center position or near center position and price movement indicators so that the market and price levels around the market can be easily found and market movement identified. As the market conditions of the tradeable object change the current best bid and ask quantity indicators remain displayed at the center position or near center position such as shown in while the value axis will move up or down to maintain the market in the center of the screen. Also the bid and ask quantity values which correspond to the current inside market can dynamically change to reflect the current market condition of the tradeable object. It should be understood that the trading screen could be configured to display the market at any location on the trading screen such as the center off center or some other location on the trading screen .

As shown in trading screen in by using a mouse or keyboard input device the trader has selected price level 30 associated to a bid quantity of 23 price level 35 associated to an ask quantity of 56 and price level 40 with an ask quantity of 38 to be used as a price movement indicators. Using the user selected price movement indicators associated with the price levels of 30 35 and 40 as reference points the trader can easily recognize and monitor market or price level movements. The price movement indicators are displayed in such a way that the trader can easily differentiate between the selected price levels and the non selected price levels. Preferably the price movement indicators can be manually changed or moved to different price levels.

In the example of the price movement indicators are shown by highlighting the entire row of a price level while placing a shadow box behind the level as to differentiate between the surrounding price levels. It should also be understood that the price movement indicators associated with price levels 30 35 and 40 could be displayed in a variety of other ways or at other price levels on trading screen . For example price movement indicators could be displayed by placing a border only around the price level or some other item of interest changing the color of the price level based on the movement of the market or the relative position to the inside market or even bolding the price and bid ask values.

In another example embodiment a trader may configure the trading screen to automatically place price movement indicators on the trading screen. For example if a user placed price movement indicator were to shift out of the visible space of the trading screen the configured trading screen could automatically associate a price movement indicator with another price level. Additionally the trader may then select the price movement indicators or possibly move the price movement indicators to another desired price level on the configured trading screen. This feature along with other options could be configurable by the trader.

To enter an order using the trading screen a trader can preset a default quantity at using quantity selection buttons and then use an input device to select a cell in the bid or ask columns and respectively corresponding to a desired price level along the value axis . For example if a location in the cell of the bid column associated with the price level of 30 is selected then a buy order having an order quantity of 10 determined based on the default quantity shown at would be automatically entered. A working order icon would then be displayed in the working order column . A trader could similarly enter a sell order by selecting a location in the cell of the ask column associated with the desired price level along the value axis .

According to one example embodiment a mouse input device could be used to position a cursor over the location or cell and upon selection of the mouse button either upon the down stroke of the mouse button or upon release of the button however programmed an order may be submitted for processing by the trading application. In the example embodiments described above a trader could distinguish a buy order from a sell order by selecting a location in either the bid column or the ask column respectively. In another example embodiment buttons on the input device could be programmed so that when a particular button is pressed it sends a buy order and when another button is pressed it sends a sell order.

In yet another example embodiment the mouse input device could be used to position a cursor over the location or cell and lock onto the desired price level along the value axis . As the value axis moves up or down the mouse cursor would move in relation to the desired price level that was selected by the trader. This feature may be useful for a trader as market data is updated on the trading screen quickly to reflect fast changes in the market and therefore prices move and change at a rapid pace. More often than not it is up to the trader to quickly and accurately move the mouse cursor to a desired price level to place an order which can sometimes be difficult in a rapidly moving market. The ability to lock onto a desired price level with a mouse cursor will increase the chance of placing an order at the desired price level. This functionality is described in further detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 908 570 issued on Mar. 15 2011 and entitled Method and System for Displaying a Cursor on a Trading Screen the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

According to another example embodiment a keyboard may have keys that are associated with the price levels displayed on the trading screen and a trader may initiate an order by selecting a key. Alternatively a trader may lock onto or select a specific price level on the trading screen using one or more keys on a keyboard. When the market shifts the trader selected price will move along with it allowing the trader to see which direction the market shifted as well as track the trader selected price.

According to the example embodiment regardless of the type of input device used mouse or keyboard before an order is sent to an electronic exchange different applications such as a risk management tool or yet some other application could be programmed to process the order and prevent the order from being sent the exchange if certain criteria occur.

As the market moves the user placed or automatically placed price movement indicators shift with the pre selected price levels so the trader can predictably follow the flow of the market and the specific price levels. In other words when the price movement indicators shift down the market has moved up in value when the price movement indicators shift up the market has moved down in value. Preferably by always operating in this fashion the trader can learn to recognize the changes in the market.

As the market conditions of the tradeable object have changed the trader will also notice that the best bid and best ask quantity indicators have remained located in the center of the trading screen even though the market has moved up in value. Further using the trading screen a trader can view how much quantity is now available at various price levels. For example following the best bid and the best ask there is a bid quantity of 30 at the price level of 33 and an ask quantity of 17 at the price level of 36 . Other levels of market depth are also shown as illustrated in .

Trading screen in also includes market movement indicators and . As shown in market movement indicator is now highlighted to indicate that the current market has moved up. The inside market was previously located at the price levels of the best bid 32 and the best ask 33 in but when compared to the trading screen in the trader will see that the market shown in trading screen has shifted up two prices levels to 34 and 35 therefore the market movement indicator is highlighted to indicate this shift to the trader. Likewise if the current market had moved down market movement indicator would be highlighted.

One skilled in the art of trading in an electronic trading environment will understand that the example embodiments are not limited to any particular type of indicator to be used to indicate the direction of market movement and that any indicator could be used to alert the trader in which direction the market has fluctuated. For example an audio alert could be sounded or a visual alert could be displayed on the screen. It should also be understood that the example embodiments are not limited to a particular number of price movement indicators or that the price movement indicators are limited to specific price levels. For example price movement indicators may be displayed at price levels in multiples of 5 such as at price levels of 25 30 35 and so on.

There could be circumstances where based on the market data the best bid and best ask quantity indicators would not be located at price levels next to each other on the value axis such that there is a gap between the inside market price levels. Rather than displaying the gap between the current inside market prices and trying to center the prices at or around the center of the trading screen a trader may wish to view the inside market indicators as if there were no gaps in the market. is a view of a trading screen where a gap in the inside market is collapsed. Collapsing the gap between the best bid price and the best ask price allows for more of the market depth to be visible to the trader. Additionally by collapsing the inside market price levels the market can be maintained in the center portion of the screen or near center .

A trader may configure the trading screen to collapse other gaps between prices in the market. For example the gap displayed between the prices of 30 and 32 on the value axis could be collapsed such that the price level of 31 would not be displayed. Alternatively although not shown in the gaps could be collapsed until there was a tradeable quantity associated with that price that would consequently trigger a display of the price indicators along the value axis . For example the price level of 31 would be collapsed until there was a tradeable quantity associated with it.

As previously mentioned a trader may also configure the trading screen to allow the trader to expand or collapse the gaps at any time. For example a trader could simply select any where on the center line and the prices without any associated quantity price levels 34 35 and 36 on the value axis would be expanded and displayed. Once the prices without any associated quantity are displayed the trader could enter an order into the market at those prices.

According to another example embodiment instead of displaying the best bid quantity indicator and the best ask quantity indicator around the center of the trading screen the trader could configure the trading screen to simply display either the best bid quantity indicator or the best ask quantity indicator at or around the center of the trading screen. It should be understood that the trader could configure the trading screen to display anything at the center for example the last traded price. is a block diagram illustrating an alternative view of a trading screen where there is a gap between the inside market prices. As previously described in regards to there could be circumstances where based on the market data the best bid and best ask quantity indicators would not be located at price levels next to each other on the value axis such that there is a gap in the inside market price levels.

Referring to best bid quantity indicator is centered on the trading screen while the remaining market data in the value axis bid and ask columns and respectively are displayed relative to the best bid quantity indicator . As with the previous example embodiments the prices in the value axis move up or down based on the current market conditions while the selected item of interest here the best bid quantity indicator remains displayed in a constant position on the trading screen shown in at the center of the trading screen. Likewise the best ask quantity indicator could be centered on the trading screen and the remaining market data could be shifted down and displayed relative to the best ask quantity indicator .

The example embodiments discussed above described a trading screen that allow traders to place and display price movement indicators while providing an intuitive view of the market. To provide an intuitive view the market is displayed in the center position or near the center position so that the market and price levels around the market can be easily found and the price movement indicators are used to highlight movement of the value axis. While the market remains centered the value axis is shown to move relative to the static display of the market.

Along with increasing the predictability of which direction the market is moving price movement indicators allow the trader to track specific price levels on the trading screen. The example embodiments also allow traders to place an order without having a problem of the market running away. Thus the trader can easily place an order at the market or at prices around the market.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for assisting a trader in placing an order in an electronic trading environment may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

