---

title: Bundled event memories
abstract: A method for bundling event memories in a social networking system. The method includes identifying a first plurality of user-submitted content items posted to the social networking system that are related to an event involving a plurality of users. The social networking system aggregates the first plurality of user-submitted content items into a bundled event memory, and transmits the bundled event memory to at least some of a plurality of user devices to be presented to at least some of the plurality of users, wherein the plurality of users utilize the plurality of user devices to communicate with the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450907&OS=09450907&RS=09450907
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09450907
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to social networking and more specifically to the bundling of event memories in a social networking system.

In recent years the amount of multimedia content posted online has increased dramatically. This increase has further accelerated with the widespread adoption of mobile phones and tablet computers featuring integrated high quality still and video cameras. Armed with these portable devices users are easily able to document and share any aspect of their lives at any moment from nearly any location.

However this increase in availability of multimedia content has led to an overwhelming and often unorganized accumulation of these digital remnants. This problem in part has been the result of the difficulty and significant time required of users to organize this multimedia content by moving it into folder hierarchies and or assigning tags and labels to these digital files.

Further with this abundance of digital multimedia content it has become difficult for users to locate and combine multimedia content from one or more sources into an engaging and portable format allowing for easy sharing with friends and family.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an exemplary embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Detailed below are embodiments of methods systems and apparatuses for the bundling of event memories in a social networking system. Bundled event memories in certain of the following embodiments may be generated from user submitted content posted to a social networking system or to a third party website or application by one or more users. This user submitted content may be automatically identified by the social networking system as pertaining to an event or identified using a set of identifiers provided by a user of the social networking system. The identified user submitted content such as but not limited to text images audio and videos may be aggregated into a multimedia object. In an embodiment the multimedia object is a video which may also include an audio soundtrack but in other embodiments the multimedia object can be any type of multimedia object such as but not limited to an image document audio clip or executable application. The bundled event memory may then be posted to the social network or provided to users of the social network. Events may be relatively short in time such as a party or game or longer in time such as a baby s first year of life or a season for a professional or college sports team .

The user device comprises one or more computing devices that can receive input from a user and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the user device may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The user device is configured to communicate with the third party website and the social networking system via the network which may comprise any combination of local area networks LANs and or wide area networks WANs using both wired and wireless communication systems.

In one embodiment the user device displays content from the third party website or from the social networking system by processing a markup language document received from the third party website or from the social networking system using a browser application . The markup language document identifies content and one or more instructions describing formatting or presentation of the content. By executing the instructions included in the markup language document the browser application displays the identified content using the format or presentation described by the markup language document . For example the markup language document includes instructions for generating and displaying a web page having multiple frames that include text and or image data retrieved from the third party website and or the social networking system . In various embodiments the markup language document comprises a data file including extensible markup language XML data extensible hypertext markup language XHTML data or other markup language data.

In one embodiment where the user device is a mobile device such as a smart phone or tablet the user device also includes one or more mobile applications that execute on the user device . The mobile application may execute as an independent stand alone application or may utilize the network to exchange data between the user device the social networking system and or the third party website .

The third party website comprises one or more web servers including one or more web pages which are communicated to the user device using the network . The third party website is separate from the social networking system . For example the third party website is associated with a first domain while the social networking website is associated with a separate social networking domain. A web page included in the third party website comprises a markup language document identifying content and including instructions specifying formatting or presentation of the identified content as described above. The social networking system comprises one or more computing devices storing a social network or mapping of a social graph comprising a plurality of users and providing users of the social network with the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social network. The social networking system is further described below in conjunction with . In use users of the social networking system add connections to a number of other users of the social networking system to whom they desire to be connected. As used herein the term friend or the term a connection refers to any other user of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system .

Connections may be added explicitly by a user or may be automatically created by the social networking systems based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . For example a first user specifically selects a particular other user to be a friend. Connections in the social networking system are usually in both directions but need not be so the terms user friend and connection depend on the frame of reference. Connections between users of the social networking system are usually bilateral or mutual but connections may also be unilateral or one way. For example if Bob and Joe are both users of the social networking system and are connected to each other Bob and Joe are each other s connections. If on the other hand Bob wishes to connect to Joe to view data communicated to the social networking system by Joe but Joe does not wish to form a mutual connection a unilateral connection may be established. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social networking system allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections or degrees or separation.

In addition to establishing and maintaining connections between users and allowing interactions between users the social networking system provides users with the ability to take actions on various types of items supported by the social networking system . These items may include groups or networks where networks here refer not to physical communication networks but rather social networks of people entities and concepts to which users of the social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use via the social networking system transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service and interactions with advertisements that a user may perform on or off the social networking system. These are just a few examples of the items upon which a user may act on a social networking system and many others are possible. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in the social networking system or in a third party website separate from the social networking system coupled to the social networking system via a network .

The social networking system is also capable of connecting a variety of entities. For example the social networking system enables users to interact with each other as well as third party websites or other entities through an API or other communication channels.

The social networking system also includes user submitted content which enhances a user s interactions with the social networking system . User submitted content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to the social networking system . For example a user communicates posts to the social networking system from a user device . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data content and or media. Content may also be added to the social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream. Content items represent single pieces of content that are represented as objects in the social networking system . In this way users of the social networking system are encouraged to communicate with each other by posting text and content items of various types of media through various communication channels increasing the interaction of users with each other and increasing the frequency with which users interact within the social networking system .

As described above in conjunction with the social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user profiles describing the users of a social network. The user profiles include biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests location and the like. The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The web server links the social networking system to one or more user device and or one or more third party websites via the network . The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and one or more user devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and Short Message Service SMS messages or any other suitable messaging format.

The Application Programming Interface API request server allows one or more third party websites and or mobile applications to access information from the social networking system by calling one or more APIs. The API request server may also allow third party websites and or mobile applications to send information to social networking website by calling APIs. For example a third party website sends an API request to the social networking system via the network and the API request server receives the API request. The API request server processes the request by calling an API associated with the API request to generate an appropriate response which the API request server communicates to the third party website via the network . For example responsive to an API request the API request server collects data associated with a user and communicates the collected data to the third party website .

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates the action log with information about user actions allowing the social networking system to track various actions taken by its users within the social networking system and outside of the social networking system . Any action that a particular user takes with respect to another user is associated with each user s profile through information maintained in the action log or in a similar database or other data repository. Examples of actions taken by a user within the social network that are identified and stored may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user or other actions interacting with another user. When a user takes an action within the social networking system the action is recorded in an action log . In one embodiment the social networking system maintains the action log as a database of entries. When an action is taken within the social networking system an entry for the action is added to the action log .

Additionally user actions may be associated with an entity outside of the core social networking system such as a third party website that is separate from the social networking system website . For example the action logger receives data describing a user s interaction with a third party website from the web server . Examples of actions where a user interacts with a third party website includes a user expressing an interest in a third party website or another entity a user posting a comment to the social networking system that discusses a third party website or a web page within the third party website a user posting to the social networking system a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other identifier associated with a third party website a user attending an event associated with a third party website or any other action by a user that is related to a third party website . Thus the action log may include actions describing interactions between a social networking system user and a third party website that is separate from the social networking system .

The authorization server enforces one or more privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. Examples of entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications mobile applications third party websites or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information like profile photo phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and the like.

The authorization server contains logic to determine if certain information associated with a user can be accessed by a user s friends third party websites and or other applications and entities. For example a third party website that attempts to access a user s comment about a URL associated with the third party website must get authorization from the authorization server to access the user s work phone number. Based on the user s privacy settings the authorization server determines if another user a third party website a mobile application or another entity is allowed to access information associated with the user including information about actions taken by the user. For example the authorization server uses a user s privacy setting to determine if the user s comment about a URL associated with the third party website can be accessed by the third party website . This enables a user s privacy setting to specify which other users or other entities are allowed to receive data about the user s actions or other data associated with the user.

Additionally the social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact with using the social networking system . To maintain this data the user profile store and the connection store store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user profile store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile. When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user profile in the user profile store assigns a unique identifier to the user profile and begins to populate the fields of the user profile with information provided by the user.

The connection store includes data structures suitable for describing a user s connections to other users connections to third party websites or connections to other entities. The connection stores may also associate a connection type with a user s connections which may be used in conjunction with the user s privacy setting further described above to regulate access to information about the user.

Embodiments of the social networking system include an event memory bundling module to enable the creation of bundled event memories using user submitted content posted to the social networking system or to a third party website or application. According to embodiments of the invention a user identifies an event that has occurred or is occurring identifies a set of users as event participants and identifies an event timeframe and an event location. The event can be nearly anything that occurs in life and in some embodiments the event includes a plurality of users of the social networking system as participants and or spectators direct or indirect . For example an event could be a sporting event such as a football game basketball game hockey game soccer game baseball game etc. or a set of sporting events such as a tournament the Olympics the Super Bowl the World Series the playoffs in any sport the World Cup the NCAA Basketball Tournament etc. . Alternatively the event could be a social event such as a wedding group gathering reunion party celebration gathering at a restaurant or tavern graduation conference presentation debate political protest or gathering farmer s market flash mob heritage festival etc. The event could be an artistic or arts related event such as a musical performance art gallery show poetry or literature reading festival etc. The event may also be a natural event such as a sunset eclipse thunderstorm blizzard etc. Accordingly the type of event that can be utilized for bundling of event memories is nearly limitless.

Based upon this event information from the user the event content identification module of the event memory bundling module identifies user submitted content posted to the social networking system regarding the event. The identified user submitted content may include photographs text e.g. comments post messages videos audio recordings illustrations animations or any other multimedia or audio visual content submitted to the social networking system referenced within content submitted to the social networking system or submitted to a third party website or application. In an embodiment where the user submitted content is submitted to a third party website or application the event content identification module retrieves the user submitted content from the third party website or application and stores the user submitted content within the social networking system . As noted above an event may be relatively short in time or longer in time. As an example of content referenced within other content a user may post a message to a social networking system including a link or reference to another piece of content. Further the identified user submitted content may have been posted by that user by friends or users connected to that user or by other users of the social networking system that posted content identified as relating to the event. The user submitted content may be generated by that submitting user e.g. a photograph taken by that user text written by that user generated by another user e.g. a post message of a second user that is republished by that user or generated by another source e.g. a quotation taken from a book or website of another a photograph taken by another etc. 

The event content identification module in some embodiments also presents the identified user submitted content to the user to seek input from the user that indicates which of the user submitted content items are of interest to the user. In embodiments of the invention this presentation is causing the content to be displayed to the user as part of a webpage or causing the content to be displayed as part of a standalone application executing on a user device of the user. The event content identification module in these embodiments receives an indication from the user device of the user that identifies which of the identified user submitted content items are to be used or not to be used when creating a bundled event memory. In some embodiments content is filtered prior to being provided to the user based upon one or more of geolocation information of the content from geotagging post text identified persons or entities in a picture a date and or time when the content was created modified or posted a location other than from geotagging etc.

The event memory bundling module also includes an aggregation module to take the identified user submitted content items and aggregate them into a bundled event memory according to user privacy preferences. In an embodiment of the invention the bundled event memory is a movie or slideshow and in some embodiments the movie includes one or more music or audio pieces that play along with images and text. In some embodiments all audio or visual items within the movie are from the user submitted content in other embodiments one or more of the audio or visual items used in the movie are not from the user submitted content and may or may not be selected by the user. For example the movie may include an audio soundtrack that is not from the user submitted content and is instead selected by the user. In embodiments of the invention the movie is encoded using the H.264 MPEG 4 Part 10 video compression standard the VC 1 SMPTE 421M standard the On2 TrueMotion VP6 codec VP8 format Theora format WebM format or other format. The movie may be presented as an Adobe Flash video a Flash Video an Ogg video an HTML5 video or any other commonly used container format known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Having aggregated the identified user submitted content to create a bundled event memory with the aggregation module the bundled event memory transmission module transmits the bundled event memory to one or more user devices of the social networking system for display to the corresponding one or more users. In embodiments of the invention the bundled event memory is transmitted and displayed to just the user in other embodiments the bundled event memory is transmitted and displayed to the user and one or more of the user s friends. Alternatively the bundled event memory is transmitted to one or more of the user the user s friends users that posted any of the user submitted content aggregated within the bundled event memory or users that indicated an interest or affiliation with the event.

In addition to creating a bundled event memory based upon event information provided by a user the event content identification module is also able to automatically detect potential events based upon an analysis of posted user submitted content. In particular in some embodiments the event content identification module is configured to detect patterns of activity within the user submitted content. For example a pattern may include a plurality of posts by one or more users referencing those one or users within a period of time or a plurality of posts from a plurality of users including a similar set of words that are identified as relating to a particular event. The event content identification module may be configured to utilize a number of well known machine learning techniques to identify such clusters of posts that may indicate an event or whether a post relates to an event.

In performing these and other tasks the event content identification module may utilize a wide variety of information from the user submitted content ranging from timestamps from photographs detected user and object identities from within user submitted photographs videos audio recordings geolocation information from the posts and objects submitted within posts metadata from user submitted content items e.g. Exchangeable Image File Format EXIF metadata Extensible Metadata Platform XMP metadata International Press Telecommunications Council IPTC metadata etc. user check ins at a particular location keywords or codes within a post message that identify another object topic user e.g. a hashtag metadata tag objects topics users that are tagged by users within user submitted content. However the use of this information and user submitted content is subject to the privacy policy of the social networking system and also any individual privacy policy implemented by a user of the social networking system . For example if a user of a particular social networking system has set a privacy setting indicating that some or all of their user submitted content is not to be used in one or more of these ways the social networking system should abide.

At the event memory bundling module via the event content identification module identifies a first plurality of user submitted content items posted to the social networking system that are related to an event that occurred involving one or more users of the social networking system. Several possible ways to perform this identification are discussed later herein with respect to .

Next at the event memory bundling module via the aggregation module aggregates the first plurality of user submitted content items into a bundled event memory. This bundled event memory is a set of one or more files capable of being presented to users on user devices. Then at the event memory bundling module via the bundled even memory transmission module transmits the bundled event memory to at least some of a plurality of user devices to be presented to at least some of the plurality of users wherein the plurality of users utilize the plurality of user devices to communicate with the social networking system.

In certain embodiments following the first approach circle the event content identification module receives a set of user identifiers for users of the social networking system involved in the event . In an embodiment the set of user identifiers is received from the first device of the first user. In this context involved in the event means that the users either participated in the event attended the event observed the event or discussed the event.

With the set of user identifiers the event content identification module generates a plurality of candidate content items based upon user submitted content items posted by the first user and the set of users at or during the received timeframe . In an embodiment event content identification module gathers all content posted to the social networking system by each of the users during the timeframe to generate the plurality of candidate content items according to their privacy preference. In some embodiments this gathering is further refined by only gathering content posted by the set of users during the timeframe that is in some way determined to likely be associated with the event. As one example if a piece of content posted by one of the set of users during the timeframe was geo tagged as having been originated from a same location as the event this content may be determined to be likely associated with the event whereas a piece of content posted by another of the set of the users during the timeframe may be determined as not being associated with the event if it was geo tagged with a location far away from the location of the event. In addition to the use of geo tagged locations the event content identification module may utilize many other pieces of information from or about content submitted to the social networking system when determining if the content is likely associated with the event such as metadata of the content particular words utilized within text of a post or the identities of users or other entities identified or referenced within the content.

This plurality of candidate content items is displayed to the first user who will indicate which of the plurality of candidate content items should or should not be included within the bundled event memory. Accordingly the event content identification module receives an indication from the user device of which of the candidate content items have been selected as the first plurality of user submitted content items .

In other embodiments the event content identification module may be configured to follow circle after receiving the event timeframe from the first device of the first user . At the event content identification module identifies a second plurality of user submitted content items that were posted by the first user during the received timeframe . In some embodiments the second plurality of user submitted content items include all content items posted to the social networking system by the first user during the received timeframe but in other embodiments the second plurality of user submitted content items includes a subset of all of that posted content depending upon how likely a particular content item is related to the event as determined by the event content identification module .

At the event content identification module identifies a plurality of users based upon the identified second plurality of user submitted content items. In embodiments of the invention the event content identification module examines the second plurality of user submitted content items to identify one or more of users that were tagged within a picture video message users that commented on a post users that liked a post users that republished a post or users that were determined to be in a picture or video by identification software or hardware.

With the plurality of identified users the event content identification module identifies a third plurality of user submitted content items posted by the plurality of users during the timeframe . Similar to the identification of the second plurality of user submitted content items in some embodiments the third plurality of user submitted content items include all content items posted to the social networking system by the set of users during the timeframe but in other embodiments the third plurality of user submitted content items includes a subset of all of that posted content depending upon how likely a particular content item is related to the event as determined by the event content identification module .

At the event content identification module generates the plurality of candidate content items from the second and third pluralities of user submitted content items . The generated plurality of candidate content items may include all of the user submitted content items from the second and third pluralities of user submitted content items or it may contain a subset of each of the second and third pluralities of user submitted content items or it may contain only some content items from the second plurality or only some content items from the third plurality. At this point the path indicated by circle merges with the path of circle so the event content identification module similarly displays the candidate content items to the first user and receives an indication from the user device of the first user of which of the candidate content items are the first plurality of user submitted content items to be included in the bundled event memory .

Another embodiment for identifying the first plurality of user submitted content items is illustrated by circle and includes identifying a second plurality of user submitted content items posted by the first user during some timeframe . In an embodiment this timeframe is not an input to the event content identification module but is an output after the event content identification module has detected a set of one or more user submitted content items posted by a first user within a particular time frame that appear to relate to a particular event. As described above the event content identification module may be configured to utilize many different methods to detect posts that are similarly referencing a common event. As one example the event content identification module may identify such a second plurality of user submitted content items if a user posts a particular number of posts within a particular amount of time that include reference to a particular number of common people at a particular location or set of locations. For example if a user posts 15 different pictures over the span of three hours from Lambeau Field a football stadium in Green Bay Wis. that all include pictures of his her friends at a Packers v. Bears game the event content identification module may detect that these posts all pertain to a common event a football game where the Packers team beat the Bears team. With this identified second plurality of user submitted content items posted the first user the process of circle merges with the process of circle at where a plurality of users are identified based upon the second plurality of user submitted content items. Subsequently the process continues with blocks and .

Another embodiment depicted by circle includes receiving an event indicator from a first user device of a first user . In an embodiment the event indicator is a word or string of text such as a hashtag that will occur in user submitted content items that relate to a particular event. In other embodiments the event indicator is a particular combination of users that when found together in user submitted content items indicate that these content items pertain to a common event. In other embodiments the event indicator may be a portion of text a check in location or any other expression that can be used to test a content item and yield a yes or no based upon the properties of that content item.

With the received event indicator the event content identification module generates a plurality of candidate content items by identifying user submitted content items posted by a plurality of users that satisfy the event indicator . In some embodiments the plurality of users includes the first user and one or more of the friends of the first user. In other embodiments the plurality of users includes one or more users of the social networking system that are not friends with the first user. This process of circle then displays the candidate content items to the first user and receives an indication from the user device of the first user of which of the candidate content items are the first plurality of user submitted content items to be included in the bundled event memory .

The bundled event display module A is a user interface element that allows a user to view any of a set of previously created bundled memories or create a new bundled event memory. The first three elements of the bundled event display module A are bundled event selectors A C. Each bundled event selector e.g. A contains a thumbnail of a bundled event memory a bundled event name e.g. 30th Birthday Blast and a bundled event timeframe e.g. Oct. 23 2012 . Upon a user selecting one of the bundled event selectors A C the associated bundled event memory is displayed to the user. The bundled event display module A also includes a bundled event creation input button which upon user selection allows the user to create a new bundled event memory. In one embodiment when a user selects the bundled event creation input button the bundled event creation module B is displayed.

The bundled event creation module B includes a number of input fields allowing a user to utilize the event memory bundling module to create a bundled event memory. The bundled event creation module B includes a bundled event name input which allows a user to provide a description of the event. The bundled event creation module B also includes a bundled event participants field which allows a user to enter some users of the social networking system that were involved in the event and further includes a bundled event location to allow the user to input a geographic location of the event. As depicted the bundled event timeframe allows the user to input a range of dates for the event but in other embodiments the bundled event timeframe allows the user to enter one date several dates consecutive or non consecutive a date range several date ranges consecutive or non consecutive one time a time range or several time ranges. Finally the bundled event creation module B includes a create bundled event input button allowing the user to submit the request to create a bundled event memory. In an embodiment of the invention upon a user filling out these inputs the event memory bundling module performs at least some of the steps of and to create the bundled event memory which might require further input from the user via other user interface elements that are not displayed herein.

Upon creation of a bundled event memory the bundled event post or similar user interface may be posted to a page associated with the user such as a timeline of a social network user page as illustrated in or pages associated with the entered bundled event participants or pages associated with a plurality of users of the social networking system . The bundled event post includes a bundled event memory along with the bundled event name the bundled event participants and the bundled event location . In embodiments of the invention the user can select and play the bundled event memory within the bundled event post user interface element in other embodiments the user may select the bundled event memory video in the bundled event post user interface yet play the bundled event memory video in a separate interface or using a separate standalone media player application such as VLC by VideoLAN iTunes by Apple Inc. RealPlayer by Real Networks or Windows Media Player by Microsoft . In some embodiments the bundled event memory is directly downloadable by the user.

The first timeline of a social network user page for a user named Alan Gamer includes a user submitted post comprising a post message of text a post image an indication of post likes i.e. an indication of other users of the social networking system that approve of the user submitted post and at least one post comment of text. The page also includes two other user submitted posts that include post messages and post images e.g. . Further this page also includes a user submitted check in post which similarly includes a post message of text an indication of post likes and at least one post comment but further includes a map and description of the geographic location where the user created the user submitted check in post from. The page also includes a user submitted post that is essentially just a post message and does not include a post image or check in location.

Turning to the second timeline of a social network user page which is for a user named Keenan Pridmore includes a user submitted post with a post message a user submitted post with a post message and post image . The second timeline social network user page also includes a user submitted post including a post message a post video an indication of post likes and at least one post comment of text.

Additionally the bundled event memory may optionally include a bundled event memory soundtrack which is an audio track that is played along with the visual aspect of the bundled event memory . As described earlier herein the bundled event memory soundtrack may be one or more audio recordings that are user submitted content items. Alternatively the bundled event memory soundtrack may be comprised partially or completely of other audio that is not user submitted content. In an embodiment of the invention the bundled event memory soundtrack is audio that is selected by the user generating the bundled event memory.

The data processing system includes memory which is coupled to the microprocessor s . The memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . The memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. The memory may be internal or distributed memory.

The data processing system also includes an audio input output subsystem which may include a microphone and or a speaker for for example playing back music or other audio receiving voice instructions to be executed by the microprocessor s playing audio notifications etc.

A display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user e.g. GUI windows illustrated in .

The data processing system also includes one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces which are provided to allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system. These I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner network interface modem other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices. The touch input panel may be a single touch input panel which is activated with a stylus or a finger or a multi touch input panel which is activated by one finger or a stylus or multiple fingers and the panel is capable of distinguishing between one or two or three or more touches and is capable of providing inputs derived from those touches to the processing system .

The I O devices and interfaces may also include a connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet etc. to connect the system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary I O devices and interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 2G 3G 4G or another wireless protocol to connect the data processing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

The data processing system is an exemplary representation of a user device but any of these features may also be utilized by devices implementing the social networking system . The data processing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In other embodiments the data processing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer system device processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with the data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

It will be appreciated that additional components not shown may also be part of the system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in a data processing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the computer implemented methods may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via a network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a network. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Various embodiments and aspects of the invention s are described with reference to details discussed herein and the accompanying drawings illustrate the various embodiments. The description above and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

