---

title: Communication of preferred power consumption configurations
abstract: Technology for communicating power preference indication (PPI) message is described. A user equipment (UE) may receive PPI configuration information, from an evolved node B (eNB), wherein the PPI configuration information includes a predetermined threshold for a number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the eNB during a defined time window. The UE may communicate a plurality of PPI messages after sending a low power consumption configuration to the eNB during the defined time window, wherein the plurality of PPI messages each indicate a change in preferred power consumption configuration. The UE may detect that the plurality of PPI messages exceeds the predetermined threshold for the number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the eNB during the defined time window as defined in the PPI configuration information. The UE may initiate a threshold timer in response to the plurality of PPI messages exceeding the predetermined threshold to restrict additional PPI messages from being communicated to the eNB until expiration of the threshold timer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277440&OS=09277440&RS=09277440
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09277440
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following definitions are provided for clarity of the overview and embodiments described below.

In 3GPP Release 11 enhancements for diverse data applications eDDA are related to improving power efficiency of device and signaling overhead over an air interface while supporting diverse data applications in LTE. In one example the UE may communicate a power preference indication PPI message to an evolved node B eNB . The PPI message may be one bit UE assistance information message that improves the UE s power efficiency in the context of background traffic. In other words the UE may communicate its preferred power consumption configuration i.e. PPI information to the eNB using the UE assistance information message. In response the eNB may set or establish the UE s power consumption configuration.

The preferred power consumption configuration of the UE may be a default power consumption configuration or a lower power consumption configuration. The default power consumption configuration may be the UE s preferred power consumption configuration in terms of when UE requires guaranteed performance. The lower power consumption configuration is preferred for power saving purposes. When a power preference is not configured or is disabled at the UE the network may assign the default power configuration to the UE. In addition the default power configuration may represent a preferred UE power configuration that is optimized for active traffic such as delay sensitive applications. An active traffic session may include a time period when a user is actively interacting with the UE.

The lower power consumption configuration may represent a preferred UE power configuration that is optimized for device power saving and is suitable for background traffic. A background traffic session may represent the duration when the user is not directly interacting with the UE. During the background traffic session applications may run in the background and generate updates notifications etc. The low power consumption configuration may configure the UE to have a relatively lower power consumption as compared to the default power consumption configuration. However the default power consumption configuration may be more suitable to maintain other performance parameters as compared to the low power consumption configuration such as lowering end to end latency for delay sensitive applications.

In general the PPI may allow the UE to efficiently reconfigure its power saving configuration based on the requirements of the applications running on the UE. However each PPI indication incurs signaling overhead over the air and hence a mechanism to avoid excessive or frequent power saving configuration changes may be needed. In LTE Release 11 a timer based mechanism is used to avoid excessive signaling of power preference indication from the UE. Thus in LTE Release 11 the UE may not communicate an additional preferred power consumption configuration to the eNB until expiry of the timer e.g. a T340 prohibit timer . In other words only after expiry of the timer the UE may communicate an additional preferred power consumption configuration to the eNB.

As an example the timer may be started upon the UE communicating the UE assistance information message indicating a default power consumption configuration. After the timer starts the UE cannot communicate additional PPI information indicating a low power consumption configuration until expiry of the timer. Thus the UE changing from the default power consumption configuration to the low power consumption configuration cannot occur before a wait time that corresponds with the timer e.g. T340 .

In one example the UE may have previously indicated its preference for a power configuration that is optimized for power saving i.e. the low power consumption configuration . If the UE detects an initiation of active traffic e.g. a delay sensitive application with stringent delay requirements the UE may convey a new preferred power consumption configuration e.g. a default power consumption configuration for achieving lower latency to the network as soon as possible for ensuring the delay performance. However if the T340 timer is applied in this case the UE may need to wait until the timer expires before conveying the new preferred power consumption configuration. Since the low power consumption configuration is optimized for power saving and not latency the delay in changing from the low power consumption configuration to the default power consumption configuration may adversely affect the UE s latency performance.

The power saved from the UE assistance information can be balanced with minimizing the delay requirements of applications running on the UE. In one example the UE may not start the timer upon changing to the low power consumption configuration thereby improving latency performance by allowing the UE to switch to a default power consumption configuration in less time. However by not starting the timer the number of times the UE switches its preferred power consumption configuration and signaling of UE assistance may increase. Thus as described in further detail below the signaling of UE assistance may be limited when the timer is not started after the UE transitions to the low power consumption configuration.

After receiving the RRC connection reconfiguration message the UE may communicate a UE assistance information message to the EUTRAN. The UE assistance information message may indicate a preferred power consumption configuration for the UE such as a low power consumption configuration or a default power consumption configuration. As previously discussed the low power consumption configuration may configure the UE to have a relatively lower power consumption as compared to the default power consumption configuration.

As discussed in greater detail below the low power consumption configuration and the default power consumption configuration may affect the discontinuous reception DRX cycles associated with the UE. In a wireless wide area network WWAN such as the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE network Release 8 the concept of discontinuous reception DRX was introduced for saving power. DRX can be used to enable a wireless device such as a user equipment UE in a 3GPP LTE network to discontinuously monitor a control channel such as the physical downlink control channel PDCCH communicated from a transmission station such as an enhanced NodeB eNodeB . The discontinuous monitoring can provide significant power savings at the UE since the receiver at the UE can be turned off.

In one example a WWAN transceiver in a wireless device can communicate with a transmission station referred to as a network node to negotiate time periods in which the wireless device will receive communications from the network node. During the negotiated times when information is not received the wireless device can turn its receiver off and enter a low power state. Discontinuous reception is used in a number of different wireless communication standards including but not limited to 3GPP LTE Rel. 8 9 10 11 and 12 and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard.

In the 3GPP LTE standard a set of functionalities are provided to enable an LTE configured receiver in a UE to perform sleep events. These sleep events may last anywhere from a single millisecond to hundreds of milliseconds or longer. The duration and timing of the sleep events can be negotiated between the UE and the network node. The negotiation may be performed using high level signaling such as an Open Systems Interconnection OSI level 3 communication or another type of high level signaling. One example of an OSI level 3 communication in the 3GPP LTE standard is radio resource control RRC signaling. In the LTE standard RRC signaling is used to control DRX operations at the LTE configured transceiver in the UE. The RRC signaling can be used to manage the use of DRX by setting various parameters. For example one of the parameters includes the DRX Cycle which identifies the periodic repetition of an active period identified as an On Duration followed by a possible period of inactivity. There is a DRX Long cycle and a DRX Short cycle. Additional example parameters include an On Duration timer a DRX Inactivity timer a DRX Retransmission timer a DRX Short Cycle a Short DRX Cycle timer an uplink UL Retransmission Timer and a downlink DL Retransmission Timer.

T340 prohibit timer when switching to a low power consumption configuration and the UE starting the timer e.g. the T340 prohibit timer when switching to the low power consumption configuration respectively. The time period of the T340 prohibit timer may be 1 millisecond ms 2 ms 5 ms 10 ms 20 ms 30 ms etc. As illustrated in and B a dashed arrow may indicate that the UE is initiating the default power consumption configuration and the solid arrow may indicate that the UE is initiating the low power consumption configuration. TL may represent the amount of time the UE spends in the low power consumption configuration wherein TL 0. TD may represent the amount of time the UE spends in the default power consumption configuration wherein TD T340.

As shown in the UE may initiate a default power consumption configuration i.e. PPI by communicating the PPI message to the eNB. The eNB may be in the default power consumption configuration for a period of T340. In other words since the T340 timer starts when the UE switches to the default power consumption configuration the UE may be in the default power consumption configuration for at least the length of the timer e.g. T340 . In one example the UE may have shorter discontinuous reception DRX cycles during the time spent in the default power consumption configuration.

The UE may subsequently initiate the low power consumption configuration. In addition the UE may not start the T340 timer after switching to the low power consumption configuration. Thus the amount of time the UE spends in the low power consumption configuration may be less than or greater to the T340 timer but greater than 0. In one example the UE may have longer DRX cycles and greater delay during the time spent in the low power consumption configuration. The UE may be in the low power consumption configuration for less than T340 and then subsequently initiate the default power consumption configuration again. By the UE switching to the default power consumption configuration faster i.e. in a time period less than T340 the average delay may be lowered. The UE may subsequently switch from the default power consumption configuration to the low power consumption configuration again. The UE may be in the low power consumption configuration for less than T340 before switching back to the default power consumption configuration. The UE may be in the default power consumption configuration for the period of T340.

In the example shown in excessive signaling may occur due to the UE initiating the default power consumption configuration shortly after i.e. a time period less than the T340 timer switching to the low power consumption configuration. The UE initiating the default power consumption configuration shortly after switching to the low power consumption may be known as a ping pong effect. However by the T340 timer not starting after the UE switches to

the low power consumption configuration the UE may avoid unnecessary latency if active traffic arrives at the UE.

As shown in the UE may initiate a default power consumption configuration i.e. PPI by communicating the PPI message to the eNB. The eNB may be in the default power consumption configuration for a period of T340. In other words since the T340 timer starts when the UE switches to the default power consumption configuration the UE may be in the default power consumption configuration for at least the length of the timer e.g. T340 . In one example the UE may have shorter discontinuous reception DRX cycles during the time spent in the default power consumption configuration.

The UE may subsequently initiate the low power consumption configuration. In addition the T340 timer may start after the UE switches to the low power consumption configuration. Thus the amount of time the UE spends in the low power consumption configuration may be greater than or equal to the T340 timer. In one example the UE may have longer DRX cycles and greater delay during the time spent in the low power consumption configuration. The UE may be in the low power consumption configuration for a period of T340 and then subsequently initiate the default power consumption configuration again. The UE may be in the default power consumption configuration for a time period greater than the T340 timer. The UE may subsequently switch to the low power consumption configuration again and then remain in the low power consumption configuration for the period of the T340 timer.

In the example shown in the UE may avoid the ping pong effect i.e. the UE going back to the default power consumption from the low power consumption configuration in a time period less than the T340 timer but at the cost of undesirable time periods of potentially higher average latency. Thus when the T340 timer starts after the UE switches to the low power consumption configuration the end to end latency may be increased in the case when active traffic arrives at the UE soon after the UE transitions into the low power consumption state thereby adversely affecting the user experience. In one example the active traffic may arrive at the UE in the time period less than the T340 timer after the UE transitions into the low power consumption state.

The UE may receive from the eNB PPI configuration information including a predetermined threshold N indicating a maximum number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the eNB during a defined time window. In particular the eNB may limit the number of PPI messages communicated by the UE after the UE communicates a low power consumption configuration. In one example the PPI configuration information may be dynamically reconfigured by the eNB depending on network conditions. The PPI configuration information may include the predetermined threshold and a time window size associated with the defined time window. The size of the defined time window may be selected as the predetermined threshold times the length of the timer i.e. N T340 . In addition the value of the predetermined threshold may be defined as an integer value such that N Time Window Size T340. In other words the length of the defined time window may be some multiple of the timer length. For example time window size 3 may indicate that the length of the time window is three times the length of the T340 timer. As another example the length of the time window may be five times the T340 timer length or a half of the T340 timer length

The UE may communicate a low power consumption configuration to the UE and then subsequently communicate a series of additional PPI messages to the eNB indicating either a default power consumption configuration or a low power consumption configuration. The UE may monitor the number of additional PPI messages communicated to the eNB based on PPI configuration information received from the eNB. If the UE detects that the number of additional PPI messages exceed the predetermined threshold during the defined time window e.g. ten PPI message exchanges during the defined time window then the UE may initiate the threshold timer. The initiation of the threshold timer e.g. the T340 timer may limit the UE from communicating additional PPI messages for the length of the threshold timer. In particular the threshold timer may be initiated after the last low power consumption configuration message communicated to the eNB. The length of the threshold timer may be 1 ms 2 ms 5 ms 10 ms 20 ms 30 ms etc. Thus the threshold timer is initiated depending on whether the number of additional PPI messages exceeds the predetermined threshold. When the threshold timer is initiated the UE cannot communicate preferred power consumption configurations to the eNB for the length of the threshold timer.

When the threshold timer expires e.g. after 10 ms the UE may not reinitiate the timer unless certain criteria is met. In other words the threshold timer may be inactivated and the UE may be free to communicate PPI messages including low power consumption configuration messages to the eNB. The UE may not initiate the threshold timer after communicating the low power consumption configuration. However if the number of PPI messages communicated to the eNB exceeds the predetermined threshold as defined in the PPI configuration information received from the eNB the UE may reinitiate the threshold timer and prevent the UE from communicating PPI messages until expiry of the threshold timer.

As shown in the UE may communicate a plurality of preferred power consumption configurations to the eNB. The dashed arrow may indicate that the UE is initiating the default power consumption configuration and the solid arrow may indicate that the UE is initiating the low power consumption configuration. TL may represent the amount of time the UE spends in the low power consumption configuration wherein TL 0. TD may represent the amount of time the UE spends in the default power consumption configuration wherein TD T340.

As illustrated in the UE may initiate the default power consumption configuration. Since the T340 timer is activated upon the UE communicating the default power consumption configuration to the eNB the UE may spend a time period of T340 in the default power consumption configuration. The UE may subsequently initiate the low power consumption configuration. After the UE communicates the low power consumption configuration the threshold timer is not initiated as long as the UE does not subsequently change its preferred power consumption configuration over the predetermined threshold per time window If the number of times that the UE changes its power configuration is greater than the predetermined threshold the threshold timer is activated and the UE cannot send PPI messages to the eNB for the length of the threshold timer e.g. the T340 timer .

As shown in the UE may communicate a plurality of additional preferred power consumption configuration messages after the initial low power consumption configuration message. The plurality of additional preferred power consumption configuration messages may exceed the predetermined threshold. Thus when the UE switches to the low power consumption configuration after exceeding the predetermined threshold illustrated by the second low power consumption configuration in the threshold timer e.g. the T340 timer may be activated. Thus the UE has to wait until the T340 timer expires before communicating another default power consumption configuration. In addition the UE may remain in the default power consumption configuration for the time period of T340. By using the threshold timer to restrict the number of preferred power consumption configurations that are communicated to the eNB after the UE switches to the low power consumption configuration excessive user assistance signaling may be reduced at the UE.

The UE may initialize a defined time window such as the current time window such that the current time window 0. The UE may set a power preference indication PPI count to 0. The UE may keep track of the current time window. If the current time window is greater than the time window size then the UE may reinitialize the current time window to 0 and the PPI count to 0. In addition the UE may count the number of PPI messages exchanged between the UE and the eNB. As previously discussed the UE may communicate the PPI messages to change from a low power state to a default state or vice versa.

The UE may start the T340 timer after communicating a PPI message to the eNB indicating a default power consumption configuration. Alternatively the UE may not start the T340 timer after communicating a PPI message to the eNB indicating a low power consumption configuration. The UE may monitor whether the PPI count i.e. the number of PPI messages exchanged between the UE and the cNB is greater than or equal to N. If the number of PPI messages is not greater than or equal to N then the UE may continue counting the number of PPI messages exchanged between the UE and the eNB. Alternatively if the number of PPI messages is greater than or equal to N then the UE may keep track of the current time window. In addition the UE may start the T340 timer after communicating an additional PPI message to the eNB indicating a default power consumption configuration. Alternatively the UE may start the T340 timer after communicating an additional PPI message to the eNB indicating a low power consumption configuration. If the current time window is greater than the time window size then the UE may reinitialize the current time window to 0 and the PPI count to 0 and continue counting the number of PPI messages exchanged between the UE and the eNB. The subsequent steps performed by the UE are as previously described.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to communicate a power preference indication PPI message as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to receive PPI configuration information from an evolved node B eNB wherein the PPI configuration information includes a predetermined threshold for a number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the eNB during a defined time window after indicating a low power consumption configuration as in block . The computer circuitry can be configured to communicate a plurality of PPI messages after indicating the low power consumption configuration to the eNB during the defined time window wherein the plurality of PPI messages each indicate a change in preferred power consumption configuration as in block . The computer circuitry may be further configured to detect that the plurality of PPI messages exceeds the predetermined threshold for the number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the eNB during the defined time window as defined in the PPI configuration information as in block . The computer circuitry may be further configured to initiate a threshold timer in response to the plurality of PPI messages exceeding the predetermined threshold to restrict additional PPI messages from being communicated to the eNB until expiration of the threshold timer as in block .

In one example the PPI configuration information includes the predetermined threshold and a time window size associated with the defined time window wherein the time window size is the predetermined threshold times a length of the threshold timer. In addition the computer circuitry may be further configured to receive the PPI configuration information at the UE in a PPI configuration information element IE included in a radio resource control RRC configuration establishment message from the eNB.

In one configuration the computer circuitry may be further configured to determine that additional messages should not be restricted from being communicated to the eNB when the plurality of PPI messages does not exceed the predetermined threshold during the defined time window. In addition the threshold timer is a T340 prohibit timer.

In one configuration the computer circuitry may be further configured to communicate the PPI message indicating the default power consumption configuration to the eNB in response to the UE detecting an initialization of a delay sensitive application. In addition the computer circuitry may be further configured to reinitiate the threshold timer after the threshold timer expires when the plurality of PPI messages communicated after expiration of the threshold timer exceeds the predetermined threshold. In one example the computer circuitry may be further configured to initiate the threshold timer in response to sending a PPI message to the eNB indicating a default power consumption configuration. Furthermore the UE may include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides a method for communicating power preference indication PPI messages as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of communicating PPI configuration information from a node to a user equipment UE wherein the PPI configuration information includes a predetermined threshold for a number of PPI messages that the UE can communicate to the node during a defined time window when the UE is in a low power consumption configuration as in block . The method may include receiving a plurality of PPI messages during the defined time window following receipt of a PPI message indicating the low power consumption configuration from the UE wherein the plurality of PPI messages each indicate a change in preferred power consumption configuration as in block . The method may further include receiving additional PPI messages from the UE after expiration of a threshold timer initiated at the UE in response to the UE detecting that the plurality of PPI messages communicated to the node exceeded the predetermined threshold during the defined time window as in block .

In one example the method may include communicating the PPI configuration information to the UE including the predetermined threshold and a time window size associated with the defined time window wherein the time window size is the predetermined threshold times a length of the threshold timer. In addition the method may include communicating the PPI configuration information to the UE in a PPI configuration information element IE included in a radio resource control RRC configuration establishment message from the node.

In one configuration the method may include receiving the additional PPI messages from the UE after expiration of a T340 prohibit timer. In addition the method may include receiving the PPI message indicating the default power consumption configuration at the node in response to the UE detecting an initialization of a delay sensitive application. Furthermore the method may include receiving the plurality of PPI messages from the UE indicating the change in preferred power consumption configuration wherein the change in preferred power consumption configuration indicates one of a default power consumption configuration or the low power consumption configuration. In one example the node is selected from a group consisting of a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

In one example the PPI configuration module is further configured to receive the PPI configuration information at the UE in a PPI configuration information element IE included in a radio resource control RRC configuration establishment message from the eNB. In addition the communication module is further configured to communicate the PPI message indicating the default power consumption configuration to the eNB in response to the UE detecting an initialization of a delay sensitive application.

In one configuration the timer module is further configured to determine that additional messages should not be restricted from being communicated to the eNB when the plurality of PPI messages does not exceed the predetermined threshold during the defined time window. In one example the timer module is further configured to initiate a T340 prohibit timer in response to the plurality of PPI messages exceeding the predetermined threshold. In addition the timer module is further configured to reinitiate the threshold timer after expiration of the threshold timer when the plurality of PPI messages communicated after expiration of the threshold timer exceeds the predetermined threshold. Furthermore the timer module is further configured to initiate the threshold timer in response to the UE indicating a default power consumption configuration.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

