---

title: Expanding the gaming social network with unrelated players
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for expanding gaming social networks with players having no existing social relationships with other players. One method includes an operation for identifying first filters selected by a first user, the first filters identifying a first criteria for desired new friends. Another operation identifies second filters selected by a plurality of users in the network, where the second filters are entered by each user to identify second criteria for being added as a friend in the network. A plurality of candidates to be added as friends for the first user are determined, where each candidate conforms to the first criteria and where the first user conforms to the second criteria set by each candidate. Additionally, friendship requests are sent to one or more of the candidates or candidates are added as friends when the candidates have chosen automatic addition of friends.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09126105&OS=09126105&RS=09126105
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09126105
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130122
---
This application is a Continuation application under 35 USC 120 and claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 13 244 708 entitled EXPANDING THE GAMING SOCIAL NETWORK WITH UNRELATED PLAYERS and filed on Sep. 26 2011 and is herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to methods for playing online social games and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for expanding gaming social networks with players that do not have an existing social relationship with other players.

Online games that allow players to interact with other players have become popular. Some online games such as chess or bridge have a small number of players that play together at the same time. Other online games such as Massively Multiplayer Online MMO games can have a large number of players playing simultaneously. Online game operators also referred to as social game operators harness the power of online social networks to design games that closely integrate the players social graph data with their existing friendship connections.

In social MMO games players collaborate in order to play the game and make progress. In some games the more the players collaborate in the game the faster that progress is made in the online the game. However some players have few friends and some of the friends may not be playing the same game. For example a player may need four neighbors to form a crew to complete a mission in the game but only one friend is available for the crew making it hard for the player to complete the game mission without a crew. Thus many players get frustrated with the game because they cannot get the help from other players to progress in the game. This may cause some players to abandon the game and search for other games where progress is easier without the need of friends.

Methods systems and computer programs are presented for expanding gaming social networks with players that do not have an existing social relationship with other players. In one embodiment a method includes an operation for determining one or more selection rules for a player of an online game where each selection rule defines a criterion for selecting users from a plurality of users. The determined one or more selection rules are applied to the plurality of users resulting in a plurality of candidate game friends from the plurality of users. At least one of the candidate game friends does not have a social link with the player. In addition the method includes an operation for presenting the plurality of candidate game friends. An operation to link in the online game the player with at least one of the plurality of candidate game friends is initiated in response to an input from the player.

In another embodiment a system for processing game operations during execution an online game includes a filtering server which is operable to determine one or more selection rules for a player of an online game. Each selection rule defines a criterion for selecting users from a plurality of users. The filtering server is further operable to apply the determined one or more selection rules to the plurality of users resulting in a plurality of candidate game friends from the plurality of users. At least one candidate game friend does not have a social link with the player and a game server is operable to receive the plurality of candidate game friends from the filtering server and present the plurality of candidate game friends. The game server is further operable to initiate an operation to link in the online game the player with at least one of the plurality of candidate game friends in response to an input from the player.

In yet another embodiment a method for processing game operations during execution an online game includes an operation for presenting one or more possible rules to a player of an online game each possible rule defining a criterion for selecting users from a plurality of users. One or more selection rules and associated parameter values are determined in response to an input from the player. The method includes another operation for applying the determined one or more selection rules to the plurality of users resulting in a plurality of candidate game friends from the plurality of users where at least one candidate game friend does not have a social link with the player. The candidate game friends are sorted according to a score for each of the candidate game friends the score being obtained by applying the one or more selection rules to each of the candidate game friends. In addition an operation to link in the online game the player with at least one of the plurality of candidate game friends is then initiated where at least one operation of the method is executed through a processor.

In another embodiment a method includes an operation for identifying first filters selected by a first user the first filters identifying a first criteria for desired new friends. Another operation identifies second filters selected by a plurality of users in the network where the second filters are entered by each user to identify second criteria for being added as a friend in the network. A plurality of candidates to be added as friends for the first user are determined where each candidate conforms to the first criteria and where the first user conforms to the second criteria set by each candidate. Additionally friendship requests are sent to one or more of the candidates or candidates are added as friends when the candidates have chosen automatic addition of friends.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations and structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Methods systems and computer programs for expanding gaming social networks with players that do not have an existing social relationship with other players are presented. Embodiments of the invention allow a player to add new friends or neighbors in the online game where the new friends are outside the social network of the player e.g. Facebook friends . It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

Web page is one embodiment of a page designed for playing games online via web browsers. In this embodiment a list of games is presented for selection by the player and a list of featured games identifies popular games. In one embodiment the game is played in game area as an embedded component that may use any technology for presenting multimedia dynamic content such as Hyper Text Markup Language 5 HTML5 Adobe Flash etc.

Adobe Flash formerly known as Macromedia Flash is a multimedia platform for adding animation and interactivity to web pages. A Flash component e.g. game area may be embedded in a web page e.g. web page to create animation advertisements or games and to integrate video into the web page. Adobe Flash can manipulate vector and raster graphics and support bidirectional streaming of audio and video. In one embodiment Adobe Flash libraries are used with the Extensible Markup Language XML capabilities of the web browsers to render rich content in the browsers. This technology is known as Asynchronous Flash and XML.

Another technology for displaying dynamic content in a web page is HTML5. HTML5 s features include media playback and offline storage. With a predecessor version to HTML5 named HTML4 sites have to reach for Adobe Flash or Silverlight to show a video or play music. However HTML5 lets sites directly embed media using Hyper Text Markup Language HTML tags e.g. and and plugins are not required.

In one embodiment games include objects such as characters currencies tools assets social relations etc. For example in a war game the characters may be the soldiers fighting on respective sides of the war. In addition there may be weapons used by the soldiers and objects around the battlefield e.g. buildings trees animals mountains rivers and so on . Each game object may be defined according to a predetermined syntax. For example the definition of a game object may include shape texture physical capabilities connection or relationship with other game objects etc.

In another embodiment a game application is embedded in a web page e.g. web page and the players play the game via web browsers. The display of a game is sometimes referred to as the stage of the game. Thus the stage of the game may be implemented as Adobe Flash or HTML5 component embedded in the web page. For example the stage is essentially a data structure that defines some of the basic elements of the game such as aspect ratio and display size. At any given time a game scene may be rendered and displayed on the stage by attaching one or more game objects to the stage.

In particular embodiments the first and the second virtual currencies are used for different purposes although some assets may be bought with either of the currencies. The first virtual currency has higher purchasing value than the second virtual currency. For example the first virtual currency can unblock some obstacles in the game that the second virtual currency cannot. Although a small amount of first virtual currency may be given to the player as the game starts a player needs to purchase more first virtual currency with real currency also referred to herein as legal currency real world currency or real cash. This provides a revenue stream for the online game provider.

In one embodiment the online game includes missions which identify one or more tasks that the player must complete before the mission is considered satisfied or finished. For example a mission may require three tasks chopping down a tree feeding an animal and planting an apple tree. Upon completion of the mission the player is rewarded in some fashion such as providing a new asset increasing the amount of energy getting more virtual currency etc. As the player completes tasks and missions the game score is increased and as the game score increases the experience level may also increase.

Clicking on inventory icon causes the online game to display a list of all the items or assets owned by the player. In addition clicking on build icon takes the player to a virtual marketplace where assets e.g. buildings can be acquired. As described above assets can be from within different categories such as buildings decorations housing businesses crops trees animals energy special items weapons etc. Each category includes a plurality of assets within the category. For example the housing category includes a cottage a town house a family house a suburban house a country house an apartment building a ranch etc. Some of the items within a category can be freely acquired by the player while purchasing of some items can be blocked until certain game condition is met such as reaching some score finishing a mission purchasing the ability to unblock the blocked item etc.

In one embodiment the online game is an online social game which leverages social relationships between the player and other online game players socially linked to the player. For example the player may add a neighbor to the game by inviting a friend from a social networking site. A neighbor of a first player as referred to herein is a second player that has established a social relationship i.e. a social link in the online game with the first player. The social relationship is typically established by having one player inviting the other player to become a neighbor and then the other player accepting the invitation. Once the invitation is accepted both players are neighbors. A neighbor may also be referred to as a friend a crew member a buddy a partner an ally etc.

There are many types of online social networks run and maintained by various companies and any one of these companies can provide access to social graph data. Some examples of companies without limitation to others may include Facebook Google Yahoo Groups Linkedin etc. Once a friend accepts being a neighbor a social relationship is established in the game where the game played by the player and the game played by the neighbor can interact with each other. For example the player may visit the game board e.g. city of the neighbor and perform some game activities therein and will be rewarded for doing so. Some of the missions in the game may include social activities that promote the interaction between players. For example one mission may include planting tomatoes in the neighbor s farm. Therefore the social interaction can provide advancement for the player and for the neighbor.

In one embodiment a game board is created the first time the player plays the online game. The game board can be a city a farm a forest an island etc. and the game board may also be referred to as the player s world environment playground etc. As the player makes progress in the game the game board changes by adding assets e.g. adding buildings shops clearing trees land etc. or by removing obstacles e.g. cutting down a tree . Each player manages her own game board although other players linked to the player e.g. neighbors in the online game may help by visiting and performing activities in the neighbor s game board. In one embodiment only the players socially linked to the owner of the game board can visit to perform game activities therein.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different assets missions social interactions etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

It should be noted that the activities that player can perform while visiting a neighbor s game board may be similar to the activities that the friend may perform in her own game board. However there may be some activities that the friend may perform while visiting and that the player cannot perform in her own game board and vice versa.

In one embodiment the system specifies the social networks to be considered when defining social links. The online game system interfaces with the specified social networks to obtain social data including friendship relations. This way the user knows that although he may have a friend in Yahoo Groups the online game is not accessing data from Yahoo Groups and the online game will not consider the two friends in Yahoo Groups to be socially linked.

As described in more detail below with reference to a player is offered options to search for new friends that have a current social link with the player search for new friends that do not have a current social link with the player or search for new friends with disregard to whether there is a current social link or not.

Some examples of social networks may include without limitation to others Facebook Google Yahoo Groups Linkedin Twitter etc. In addition a social link may also be defined in other types of websites such as users that are registered and have a login in a particular website e.g. a website for alumni of a university . In some social networks it is possible for the user to follow a certain user of a social network without the user being necessarily a friend of the other user. For example a user of my like a soccer club that regularly posts news in a Facebook page. In one embodiment a user is able to select another user that shares an interest. For example a user may search for friends for the online game that like the same rock group. In one embodiment the interest of a user is found in the user s profile in one of the social networks.

In addition as used in herein a social link exists between two persons when there is a direct link between the two persons i.e. the two persons are friends or somehow directly connected in a social network. Two persons may have a shared friend in a social network therefore they have an indirect social relationship but this is not considered a social link as used herein unless otherwise specified. As described below with reference to an option is available for the user to select friend of a friend as a potential criteria for the search. However it is noted that if a user were to select an option to search for friends outside her existing social network friends of friends would be possible candidates for this type of search because a direct relationship does not exist between both players.

In one embodiment the user has an option to define which social networks to use in order to define what constitutes a social link at least for the purpose of searching for new friends. For example a user may specify that only Facebook friends are to be considered as friends of the searching user i.e. they have a current social link in Facebook in the context of the search for game friends. Therefore if another person has a link established in another group e.g. Linkedin this link in the other group would not be considered a social link in that particular search. In another embodiment the user selects which are the social networks that contain social links for this user. This way a user may define that this user has social links in Google and Zynga Poker for example. In this case the online game will only consider social links in this two social networks when performing searches for this user.

There may be different criteria to select possible friends. For example a player may wish to befriend a player based on gender skill level geographic location playing hours etc. Embodiments of the invention allow the player to select the filtering criteria to find new friends. In addition the online game may also provide additional filtering criteria such as linking together players with similar spending patterns. Further yet additional filters may be sent for accepting friends and requests. For example a player may decide to accept requests only from female players.

In the environment shown in a player has selected four filters F F using a Graphical User Interface GUI such as the one described below with reference to . In addition the player has defined a logical expression to combine the filters. The logical expression is as follows 

Once the logical expression is applied to the universe of players the result is a set of players represented by the players inside the resulting geometric figure. Afterwards the online game applies an acceptance filter defined by one or more of the players in the online game. The acceptance filter defines which players from the universe of players may request to become friends of the player setting the acceptance filter. In the embodiment of the online game filters out those players that have indicated that they do not want to receive friend requests from players outside their social network. Once the acceptance filter is applied to the set of players a subset of players is obtained. One or more of the subset of players may be presented to the player for sending a friendship request.

As a result players are matched with other players that may have similar gaming interests or similar social interests. Players are not limited to play only with friends from their social network. In one embodiment the universe of players is not limited to the players from the online game and the universe of players may also include other players engaged in other online games.

In operation a user looking for friends selects one or more search filters for the search as well as parameters associated with each of the filters if the parameters are needed or wanted for each of the filters. For example a user may select an age filter and enter a parameter of between 15 and 25 years old. The result of operation is one or more selected filters with the corresponding parameters for each of the filters if entered by the user.

For description for process it is referred to herein as a searched friend to a user or player that is a candidate for becoming a friend of a player searching for friends. In addition it is referred to herein as a searched filter to a filter set by a searched friend defining which players may establish or request to establish a friendship relationship with the searched friend.

In operation the searched friend selects from the searched filters to limit the type of players that may become friends of the searched friend. The result is a set of searched filters also referred to as target filters . Of course it is possible that either the player looking for a friend or the searched friend do not select any of the filters available which would mean that the whole universe of players would be available to complete the friendship request.

In operation the online game searches for candidate friends by taking into account the selected search filters and target filters . The result is a list of candidate game friends. In one embodiment the list or a portion of the list is presented to the player looking for friends in order to give the player a chance to further refine the list of candidate friends such as by selecting directly from the presented list or by modifying the filters in order to repeat the search operation with new filters. In one embodiment a matching score is provided for each of the candidate game friends. In another embodiment the player is not given the chance to review the list and the online game proceeds to add new friends or send requests to candidate new friends for becoming friends.

In operation the player refines the candidate list if so desired and then for each of the candidates left in the list the online game determines if the candidate is to be added automatically as a friend. If the candidate is to be added automatically as a friend the online game establishes a social link between the player and the candidate in operation . In one embodiment the candidate is automatically added as a friend of a requesting player when the candidate has established a universal acceptance filter that specifies that friendship requests are always accepted without having to request permission from the searched friend.

On the other hand if the candidate is not to be added automatically as a friend the online game sends a request to the candidate. If the candidate accepts to become a friend upon receipt of the friendship request in operation then the accepting candidate and the friend are socially linked in operation . In one embodiment once the player and the candidate are linked in the online game i.e. the player and the candidate become friends in the online game the candidate can provide help to the player in the online game and vice versa.

The first search area for setting filters includes a plurality of filters that can be optionally set when searching for friends. The filters limit the candidates that can become friends of the player. Each filter includes a checkbox that enables the user to select the particular filter. Some filters e.g. skill level include a field for a entering a value associated with the filter. For example the field associated with the skill level filter can be filled with the desired skill level or skill level range. In one embodiment the skill level can be defined as 5 5 

Active Hours defines the time of the day were the searched friend is more likely to be found playing the online game 

Buddy in other game defines that the searched friend must already be a friend in another online game 

Friend Acceptance Automatic defines that only players that want to become friend s automatically are to be identified i.e. a request for friendship is not required to become friends 

Hours spent online defines the amount of time that the searched friend spends on average playing the online game and

Other filters may include skill level in other games players belonging to a same online group e.g. are registered as users in the same website players belonging or not to a specific social network or social networks e.g. a player having a Facebook account players having a higher game skill level players having a lower skill level players with a same skill level school neighborhood occupation etc.

In addition the first search area includes a selection area to specify the number of friends desired and the maximum number of requests sent for friendship. For example a user may be searching for 3 friends and does not want the system to add more than 3 friends. Since some friendship requests may not be accepted the user may wish to set the number of requests that are sent out e.g. 10 requests . In one embodiment once the number of new friends desired has been reach the outstanding requests are canceled. When the user selects button find friends the system proceeds to generate the list of candidate friends as described above. In one embodiment the player is given the option not shown to weight the different filters and to prioritize the filters.

The second area includes a filter selection area an acceptance selection area an automatic acceptance setting area and an option button for setting the filters . The filter selection area includes a list of filters defining the criteria for accepting friendship requests. These filters are similar or the same as the filters described above in area with reference to filters for searching friends except that they work in the opposite direction.

The acceptance selection area allows the user to specify that no friendship requests are to be accepted outside the current circle of friends as specified in one or more social networks and an option to accept or not friendship requests from strangers. The automatic acceptance setting area allows the player to specify that requests are to be accepted automatically i.e. without requiring an express acceptance or to specify that previous authorization is required.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different filters present the filters in a different way allow the introduction of logical expressions to link the filters weights etc. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the online game provides default values for the filters. For example the online game may set by default searching for players of a different gender than the searching player and that all players will accept friendship requests outside their social network. The default settings may be changed by the players.

In yet another embodiment the online game does not present the filters to the player. When the player is looking for a friend the player selects an option asking the online game to find friends. The online game uses its own internal filters to determine which players to recommend or to link with the player looking for friends. For example if the player is at level the online game may recommend somebody at level because a player at level can help the player with the lower skill level to advance in the game. In this case the player sees the result of the filtering done by the online game and not the filters themselves.

In one embodiment the online game adds filters i.e. players in the same city in operation and filter parameters if needed. Additionally in operation the online game adds the filters established by the searched friends. For example some players may wish to become friends of anyone who asks while other players may not wish to receive invitations from players outside their social network.

In operation the online game calculates prioritized list of candidates using the filters described above. In one embodiment a matching score is assigned to the candidates and the list is prioritized according to the respective matching scores. In operation the candidates are presented to the player. In one embodiment the number of candidates presented is limited to a predetermined maximum number since the list of candidates could be in the thousands. For example the online game may present 10 20 or maybe even 100 candidates although other numbers are also possible. In one embodiment a profile picture and or profile information is presented for each of the candidates.

In one embodiment the candidates are not presented to the player as indicated in operation and the game automatically sends a request to become friends to a predetermined number of candidate game friends with the highest matching score.

In operation the player selects one or more players from the list of candidates e.g. the top 10 in the list or the ones that look more interesting from their profile picture . Once the desired players are selected the online game checks in operation if each of the selected players are to be added as friends automatically i.e. without requiring acceptance by the searched friend or if acceptance by the searched friend is required.

Further if a player is to be added automatically the method continues to operation and the player and the candidate are linked in the online game that is the player and the candidate become friends in the online game. If the candidate is not to be added automatically the method continues to operation and a request to become friends is sent to the candidate. If the candidate accepts the request not shown the online game will link both players in the online game.

When a player provides an input into the player s client device the client device may in response send a message via the communications network to the social networking server. The social networking server may update the player profile save the message to a database send messages to other players etc. The social gaming network may include a social graph database which stores player relationships social player profiles player messages and player social data.

The gaming servers host one or more gaming applications and perform the computations necessary to provide the gaming features to the players and clients. One or more gaming realm databases store data related to the gaming services such as the gaming applications and modules virtual gaming environment realm data player gaming session data player scores player virtual gaming profiles game stage levels etc. The gaming servers may utilize the data from the gaming realm databases to perform the computations related to providing gaming services for the players. In some implementations a server load database stores gaming server load statistics such as computational load server responses times etc.

The social gaming network may include one or more load balancing servers and one or more filtering servers . The filtering servers assist players in obtaining new friends by providing a plurality of filters that are configurable by players looking for players and configurable by the players themselves to provide rules regarding which players can send requests to become friends. In one embodiment a filter database stores filter related information such as available filters for searching available filters for accepting requests filters added by the online game search history past friendship requests pending friendship requests etc.

The gaming servers are used to execute the online games and hold the gaming data which can be shared with social networking servers and filtering servers . When a player in the online game is searching for friends gaming servers sends a request to filtering servers for the filters available for searching friends. In response filtering servers sends the available filters to gaming servers .

Gaming servers then presents the filters to the player such as for example by using the GUI described with reference to . After the player makes her selection gaming servers sends the requirements for the friend search to filtering servers . The filtering servers then perform the search for candidate friends according to the filters received. Filtering servers utilize the social data received from social networking servers for the search and data regarding friendship relations within the online game received from gaming servers . Afterwards the results of the search which include the candidates are sent to gaming servers .

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different server configurations divide the tasks differently among the servers or exchange information between servers in different forms. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

From operation the method continues to operation where the plurality of candidate game friends is presented to the player. An operation to link in the online game the player with at least one of the plurality of candidate game friends is initiated in operation in response to an input from the player. At least one operation of the method of is executed through a processor.

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also includes one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments of the invention may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments of the present invention can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

