---

title: Determining the location at which a photograph was captured
abstract: A method for geolocating photographs is implemented in a computing device. The method includes receiving a photograph captured by a user as data stored on a computer-readable medium, receiving location history data for the user, determining a time at which the photograph was captured based on an object depicted in the photograph, determining a geographic location at which the photograph was captured using the determined time and the location history data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08718373&OS=08718373&RS=08718373
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08718373
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130328
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 587 filed on May 1 2012 and titled Determining the Location at which a Photograph was Captured which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 569 549 filed on Dec. 12 2011 and titled Determining the Location at Which a Photograph was Captured the entire disclosures of each of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure generally relates to techniques for processing photographs and in particular to determining and associating a geographic location with a photograph.

The background description provided herein is for the purpose of generally presenting the context of the disclosure. Work of the presently named inventors to the extent it is described in this background section as well as aspects of the description that may not otherwise qualify as prior art at the time of filing are neither expressly nor impliedly admitted as prior art against the present disclosure.

In many situations users of digital and film cameras camera phones camcorders and other image capturing devices wish to know where a certain photograph was captured. Some digital cameras manufactured today are equipped with global position system GPS receivers that determine the location of the camera based on GPS satellite data. The user of a digital camera equipped with a GPS receiver may configure the GPS receiver to automatically compute the GPS coordinates of the location of the camera whenever a photograph is captured with the camera so that the camera can associate the photograph with the computed GPS coordinates. However not all cameras are equipped with GPS receivers. Also in some cases a user may intentionally or inadvertently disable the GPS receiver of the camera. In other cases the GPS data transmitted by the GPS satellites may be obscured from the GPS receiver of the camera if for example the camera is indoors. In each of these cases a photograph captured with the camera will not be associated with the location information.

In an embodiment a method for geolocating photographs is implemented in a computing device. The method includes receiving a photograph captured by a user as data stored on a computer readable medium receiving location history data for the user determining a time at which the photograph was captured based on an object depicted in the photograph determining a geographic location at which the photograph was captured using the determined time and the location history data.

A method in another embodiment is for determining a location at which a photograph was captured using a camera. The photograph is stored as data on a computer readable medium and a location of the user at the time the photograph was captured corresponds to the location of the camera at the time the photograph was captured. The method is implemented in a computing device and includes detecting in the photograph an object that displays an indication of time as a plurality of alphanumeric characters. In response to determining that the plurality of alphanumeric characters matches a format of time indication the method includes automatically determining a time at which the photograph was captured using the detected plurality of alphanumeric characters automatically determining a location of the user at the determined time using user location data that is indicative of respective locations of the user at a plurality of instances of time during a time period including the determined time and generating an electronic indication of the location at which a photograph was captured such that the indication indicates the determined location of the user at the determined time.

In still another embodiment a tangible computer readable medium stores instructions for automatically determining a location at which a photograph was captured using a camera where the photograph is stored as data on a computer readable medium. When executed on a processor the instructions cause the processor to determine a time at which the photograph was captured based on an objected depicted in the photograph. Further the instructions cause the processor to receive user location data indicative of respective locations of a user at a plurality of instances of time during a time period where the time period includes the determined time and where a location of the user at the time the photograph was captured corresponds to the location of the camera at the time the photograph was captured. Still further the instructions cause the processor to select from the plurality of instances of time a subset of instances of time most closely associated with the determined time and determine the location at which the photograph was captured using the determined time and a subset of the user location data corresponding to the selected subset of instances of time.

This specification describes a photograph location detection system or simply photo geolocation system that automatically determines where a photograph was captured using one or several objects depicted in the photograph or other visual attributes of the photograph and in some cases additional information related to the location of a person who captured the photograph or is depicted in the photograph. Generally speaking the photograph can depict objects or data directly or indirectly indicating the location at which the photograph was captured and or the time of capture from which the location then can be inferred. As used herein the photograph may be a still photograph captured with a digital or analog camera a video still extracted from a digital or analog video stream e.g. an 8 mm tape a VHS tape etc. In various cases the photograph may depict such objects as landmark structures street signs clocks and watches electronic billboards tickers etc. In some scenarios the photograph may depict people.

In an example scenario the photo geolocation system identifies a landmark structure depicted in the photograph and obtains the location of the landmark structure to directly infer extrapolate interpolate or otherwise determine the location at which the photograph was captured. As a more specific example upon identifying a structure depicted in a photograph as a landmark structure the photo geolocation system can retrieve the GPS coordinates of the landmark structure and associate the location at which the photograph was captured with the GPS coordinates of the landmark structure. The photo geolocation system also can associate the determined location with a certain margin of error depending on the size of the landmark structure or other factors. Further the photo geolocation system in some cases operates on photographs that depict faces of people known to be at certain locations at certain times provided the operator of the photo geolocation system previously obtained consent from the relevant parties. According to other scenarios the photo geolocation system recognizes and uses certain identifiable properties of objects depicted in the photographs such as position of the sun or the moon relative to the horizon for example. In yet other scenarios the photo geolocation system operates on attributes of photographs such as for example a timestamp projected onto the film at the time the photograph was captured.

In some situations the location at which a photograph was captured may be determined at least approximately based only on what is depicted in the photograph. In other situations however identifying an object in a photograph is insufficient for determining the location at which the photograph was captured. If the photograph depicts a clock that indicates the time of day for example the photograph cannot be geolocated based only on the indicated time. In such cases the photo geolocation system may use additional information such as a log that reflects the reported location of the user who took the photograph on the day the photograph was captured which the user may provide to the photo geolocation system or which the photo geolocation system may obtain from a suitable data repository with the user s permission. As discussed in more detail below the photo geolocation system in these cases may correlate the time indicated in the photograph with one or several entries in the log to determine where the user likely took the photograph.

Generally speaking the photo geolocation system may be used in annotating photo albums labeling individual photographs or video recordings or in any other application in which it is necessary or desirable to tag photographs with location data or more generally geolocate the photograph i.e. associate the photograph with at least an approximate location at which the photograph was captured . Example techniques for associating photographs with the corresponding locations which the photo geolocation system may implement are discussed below with reference to .

A user may interact with the photo geolocation engine via a client computing device . More particularly the user may instruct the photo geolocation engine via the client computing device to identify the location where a photograph was captured. In some implementations the photo location system requires that the user supply his or her logon credentials such as a user name email address password etc. The user in general may refer to the photograph individually or as a part of a group of photographs e.g. a photo album. For example the user may wish to obtain location data for a series of photographs the user captured at various places during a trip and uploaded to the photograph database .

In the example of the photo geolocation engine may detect an electronic ticker in the photograph that indicates time t. More specifically the photo geolocation engine may automatically recognize alphanumeric characters in the photograph process the alphanumeric characters to obtain the character string displayed by the electronic billboard in this case 8 24 Jan. 1 2011 and automatically recognize that the character string may be an indication of time and date. As an even more specific example the photo geolocation engine may be configured to recognize a text pattern that includes a number between 0 and 24 followed by a colon and another number between 0 and 60 as an indication of time. A fully spelled out name of a month or an abbreviated name of a month followed by a number between 0 and 31 may be recognized as an indication of a date. In general the photo geolocation engine may be configured to recognize any suitable format of time indication or multiple such formats . The photo geolocation engine may ask the user to confirm that the character string in fact includes a time and date in some implementations. The photo geolocation engine then may associate the time t with the time when the photograph was captured by generating an appropriate data record to be stored in the photograph database for example or elsewhere on a computer readable medium. In some cases the photo geolocation engine may utilize the detected time t only as a temporary variable and store the temporary variable in a transitory memory only e.g. RAM .

It is noted that the electronic ticker indicating the time t is depicted in the photograph and as such is an integral component of the image captured in the photograph . By contrast some photographs are associated with metadata such as indications of time authorship etc. that may be stored along with the photograph or separately from the photograph but in any case does not constitute an integral component of the image captured in the photograph. In the environment depicted in the photograph database may store metadata for some or all photographs. The photo geolocation system in some cases may update or expand the metadata upon determining the time when a photograph was taken the location at which the photograph was taken or both.

In general examples of objects indicating time similar to the electronic ticker include digital clocks analog clocks screens or monitors displaying time and or date etc. In some instances the photo geolocation engine may include software modules to perform identification of objects indicating the time t. ABBYY FineReader 11 developed by ABBYY Software Ltd. is an example of a software module that may be included with the photo geolocation engine to perform identification of objects indicating the time t. In other instances the photo geolocation engine may transmit a request to an application collocated with the photo geolocation engine at server or disposed on the application server for example to perform identification of objects in the photograph indicating the time t. The photo geolocation engine may include a reference to the photograph or a data file corresponding to the photograph with the request.

With continued reference to the photo geolocation engine may receive a time indexed location history for a certain user upon determining that the user has granted his or her permission thereto. As previously indicated the photo geolocation system may require that the user supply his or her login credentials which the photo geolocation engine may utilize to receive the user s time indexed location history . The time indexed location history of several users may be stored in the location database which in some cases may be maintained independently of the photo location system . The time indexed location history for a user may include a series of records . . . N. A record for example includes location information for the user in the form of latitude and longitude data. The record also includes a time stamp . In essence the record indicates that the user was at least approximately at the location corresponding to latitude and longitude at the time corresponding to time stamp .

The photo geolocation engine may compare the time t obtained from the depiction of the electronic ticker to one or several time stamps in the time indexed location history . For example the photo geolocation engine may determine that the time t is temporally closest to the time stamp . The photo geolocation engine accordingly may generate an index into the record and associate the location where the photograph was captured at least approximately with the latitude longitude . The photo geolocation engine may generate a corresponding location indication e.g. a string of alphanumeric characters and depending on the implementation or scenario provide the location indication to the user via the corresponding client device store the location indication in the record store the location indication in a separate database etc. As another alternative the photo geolocation engine may interleave the location indication into the digital record corresponding to the photograph and store the updated digital record in a memory.

The time indexed location history may be discrete e.g. include a series of data records corresponding to respective points in time. In some instances the time t obtained from the photograph does not directly correspond to any of the time entries . . . N in the time indexed location history of the user. In such instances the photo geolocation engine may identify the two time entries and that define the boundaries of a time interval in which the time t lies. The photo geolocation engine may interpolate the location information and that corresponds to the time entries and to approximate the latitude longitude of the location where the photograph was captured.

In some scenarios the photo geolocation engine may utilize a map database not shown to determine a street postal address corresponding to the latitude and longitude coordinates of the location where the photograph was captured. The photo geolocation engine then may associate the photograph with the determined street postal address and in some cases update the appropriate fields of data structure storing metadata for the photograph . In some implementations the photo geolocation system also includes a database storing location information for landmark structures.

The photo database and the location database may be implemented in any suitable manner such as using relational database techniques for example. Although in some implementations the location database is stored on one or several stationary devices e.g. a server or server farm the location database also may be implemented in a portable device. For example the user may utilize a GPS tracking device such as Trackstick manufactured by Telespial Systems Inc. to record his or her location at different times. The user may upload time indexed location information stored in the GPS tracking device to the location database or the GPS tracking device may operate as the database . As another example the location database may be associated with a service that maintains location data which users voluntarily submit at periodic intervals or at designated locations by checking in for example such as Foursquare Gowalla Google Latitude etc.

In some scenarios the location of the camera may be associated with the location of a smartphone or a laptop computer equipped with a wireless network card. For example an application running on the user s smartphone may determine the location of the smartphone using GPS positioning triangulation or another suitable technique.

In an embodiment the photo geolocation engine may be available at an online application store disposed at the server or the application server for example. A user may retrieve a copy of the photo location engine from the server and install the retrieved copy of the photo location engine on the client computing device . The client computing device may be a tablet desktop net book or laptop computer. Alternatively the client computing device may be a smartphone.

First referring to the photo geolocation engine may identify a landmark structure in a photograph . Generally speaking landmark structures are readily recognizable. Identifying a landmark structure may include recognizing features or properties such as the outlines shapes color etc. that characterize a particular landmark structure. The photo geolocation engine may include or cooperate with via appropriate application programming interfaces APIs landmark recognition software such as that utilized by such applications as Google Goggles for example to perform the automatic identification of landmark structures. The photo geolocation engine may determine the name of a landmark structure and use the name of the landmark structure to retrieve the location of the landmark structure from a special purpose landmark database not shown that includes a list of landmark structures and the corresponding location data. Alternatively the photo geolocation engine may use a web service such as that offered by Google or MapQuest for example and made accessible via the corresponding API. The landmark database may in some instances be a part of the location database . The photo geolocation engine may associate the photograph with location information for the identified landmark structure.

Alternatively the photo geolocation engine may transmit a request to an application to perform the identification of any landmark structures in the photograph . The request may be transmitted by invoking the requisite API function of the application. In this scenario the photo geolocation engine may provide the application with a reference or link to the photograph . The photo geolocation engine may receive the location information of the identified landmark from the application. The photo geolocation engine may associate the photograph with the received location information of the identified landmark structure.

The location information received for the identified landmark structure may include the latitude longitude coordinates of the landmark structure. Alternatively the location information for the landmark structure may be received as a postal street address. The photo geolocation engine may associate the location of the landmark structure with the photograph and store an indication of the association in the photo database of for example. Of course a photograph may include multiple landmark structures. In those cases where a photograph includes multiple landmark structures the photo geolocation engine may identify some or all the landmark structures in the photograph.

In some instances the camera capturing a photograph may be a significant distance away from the identified landmark structure. In these instances the photo geolocation engine may be configured to associate the photograph with an indication corresponding to the general location of the camera for example town city or county.

In an example scenario a user provides a set of representative photographs of herself her family and her friends to a photograph management and or sharing service. The user then specifies names or other identifiers for each photograph e.g. Amy Bob . For example referring back to the user can upload the set of representative photographs along with the corresponding names or identifiers to the photo database . Next the user instructs the photo geolocation engine to use the set of representative photographs when the photo geolocation engine detects faces of people in photographs uploaded by the user. The user also provide the photo geolocation engine access to her time indexed location information. To enable the photo geolocation engine to access the time indexed location information of her family and friends the user specifies email addresses of each person associated with the set of representative photographs so that each relevant person can explicitly authorize the use of his or her the time indexed location information for automatically geolocating photographs using the techniques of the present disclosure. Thus the user may configure the photo geolocation engine to operate on a specified set of people. More generally some users may decide to share their time indexed location information with each other to increase the probability of successfully geolocating a photograph.

As previously discussed the photo geolocation engine may utilize a time identified in a photograph and a time indexed location information for an individual identified in a photograph to determine a location where the photograph was captured. In some instances however the photo geolocation engine may identify several other individuals in the photograph. In such cases the photo geolocation engine may associate the identified individuals with the time and location provided consent of the relevant parties has been properly obtained.

Photographs may include images of two or more individuals. In some of these photographs the user may be one of the individuals depicted in the photograph. Particularly some of the individuals in the photograph may have authorized the sharing of their time indexed location information with the user and the photo geolocation engine . In some cases the time indexed location information for the user may be unavailable for the time period corresponding to when the photograph was captured. In these cases the photo geolocation engine may utilize the time indexed location information of one of the individuals identified in the photograph to determine the time when the photograph was captured. The photo geolocation engine may also create a time indexed location history for those individuals including the user identified in the photograph for whom a time indexed location information is unavailable or is incomplete. A photograph illustrating this particular scenario is discussed next in some detail.

The example photograph illustrated in includes a first individual and a second individual whom the photo geolocation engine may automatically identify provided proper permissions have been obtained. As discussed with reference to the photo geolocation engine may determine the identity of the two individuals and depicted in the photograph . In one scenario the time indexed location information may only be available for one of the individuals in the photograph individual for example. Upon determining the identity of the individual the photo geolocation engine may retrieve the time based location history for individual . Alternatively the photo geolocation engine may query a remote database for the time indexed location information for the individual . The remote database may be disposed at the location database of for example.

The photo geolocation engine may identify the time the photograph was captured by detecting and processing an electronic ticker that indicates time t. As previously described the photo geolocation engine may correlate the identified time t with a timestamp from the time indexed location information received for the first individual . The photo geolocation engine may retrieve the location information such as GPS coordinates corresponding to the correlated time stamp and associate the photograph with the time t identified in the photograph . The photo geolocation engine may also associate the location information with the photograph .

The photo geolocation engine may be configured to create a time indexed location history for the individual indentified in the photograph . The photo geolocation engine may transmit an identifier of the individual the time t identified in the photograph and the location information associated with the photograph to a remote locator service for example. Alternatively or concomitantly the photo geolocation engine may create a time indexed location information similar to depicted in for the second identified individual .

In the examples discussed above the photo geolocation engine is described as performing the several intermediate steps of identifying the location where a photograph was captured and or the location of a user. However in some or all of the examples discussed above the photo geolocation engine may communicate with software applications executing as separate processes or daemons on the same computing device as that on which the photo geolocation engine is disposed or on a separate computing device to perform the several intermediate steps of identifying a location where a photograph was captured. The software applications may be developed and distributed by third party entities in some cases. The photo geolocation engine may transmit a request to a software application with a reference to the photograph to be processed. For example the photo geolocation engine may instruct a software application to perform an identification of features indicating a time in the photograph. More particularly the photo geolocation engine may instruct a second software application to perform the steps of correlating the time with a location from a user s time indexed location history.

Similarly the photo geolocation engine may instruct a software application to identify individuals in the photograph. The photo geolocation engine may also instruct a software application to determine a time when a photograph was captured based on the relative locations of celestial objects and geographic features and the brightness of captured photograph. In some implementations the software applications discussed here may be located at the server . In other scenarios the third party software applications may be located on an application server . In these scenarios the photo geolocation engine may communicate with the third party software applications via the network .

Having considered several examples of photographs on which the photo geolocation system may operate and several techniques that may be utilized to determine the location where photographs were captured several methods that may be implemented in one or several devices operating in the photo geolocation system are discussed next.

At block the time of capture of the photograph is determined. As discussed above the time of capture may be based on a depiction of a clock in the photograph a timestamp projected onto the photograph at the time of capture etc. Next a location corresponding at which the photograph was captured is determined at block . In an embodiment a user s time indexed location information is received or accessed to match the time determined at block with a time at which the user s location was recorded.

At block the location determined at block is associated with the photograph received at block . For example a data record including the determined location may be generated and provided to a user or stored in a database. In some cases previously available metadata associated with the photograph is updated with the location determined at block .

At block a time of capture of the photograph is determined using techniques generally similar to those discussed above. Next at block the location of the person at the time obtained at block may be determined or estimated. The photograph then may be associated with the determined location block .

The method then may utilize the first person s time indexed location information to determine a location of the first person at the time of capture of the photograph block . In another scenario a locator service operated by a separate entity Google Latitude for example may be queried by invoking API functions of the locator service to determine the first person s location at a time corresponding to the time of capture of the photograph determined at block . At block the photograph is associated with the first person s location. Creating the association may include updating the metadata fields of the photograph with the location information. Alternatively a data record in a database may be updated with a reference to the photograph and the location information.

At block the second person identified in the photograph may be associated with the time of capture of the photograph. The method implement at block may create a time indexed location history for the second person.

Next by way of example several components of an example photo geolocation engine are discussed with reference to . The photo geolocation engine of may operate in any suitable environment such as the photo geolocation system illustrated in . More particularly in an example embodiment the photo geolocation engine is similar or identical to the photo geolocation engine of .

The photo geolocation engine may receive input from an input sub system which is communicatively coupled to the computing device . The input sub system generally may include one or more of a pointing device such as a mouse a keyboard a touch screen a trackball device a digitizing tablet etc. The photo geolocation engine provides output to a user via the output sub system . The output may include a video monitor a liquid crystal display LCD screen etc. The photo geolocation engine may also be communicatively coupled to a communication interface . The communication interface generally may include a wired ethernet communication link a wireless ethernet communication link etc. The photo geolocation engine may communicate with remote hosts not shown disposed on a network via the communication interface .

In operation the photo tagging tool may receive a request from a user to determine the location where a photograph was captured. The photograph may be stored in the database . The photo geolocation engine may provide the user with a user interface via the output sub system to enable the user to select a photograph from the database . The photograph may include several of the previously discussed identifiable features that may allow the photo geolocation engine to determine the location where the photograph was captured. The photo tagging tool may instruct the photo processing tool to process the photograph. The photo processing tool may process the photograph to identify one or more of the previously discussed identifiable feature such as a landmark structure a feature indicating a time when the photograph was captured the identity of several individuals in the photograph etc.

The photo tagging tool may receive an indication corresponding to one or several of the features identified in the photograph from the photo processing tool which may instruct the geolocation processing tool to determine the location where a photograph was captured. In one instance the geolocation processing tool may receive from the photo processing tool an indication of a time when a photograph was captured. The geolocation processing tool may utilize the time to determine a user s location at that time. As previously discussed the geolocation processing tool may utilize the user s time indexed location information to determine the user s location at the time identified in the photograph. In other instances the geolocation processing tool may also receive an indication corresponding to the identity of an individual identified in a photograph. In this instance the geolocation processing tool may identify the time indexed location information for the identified individual. The geolocation processing tool may correlate the received time indication with a time from the identified individual s time indexed location information to determine the individual s location at the identified time. The geolocation processing tool may also operate to determine the location information for landmark structures identified in the photograph. In each instance the geolocation processing tool may transmit an indication of a location corresponding to the location where the photograph was captured. The photo tagging tool may receive the indication of the location and associate the photograph with the indication. In some embodiments the photo tagging tool may save the indication of the association in the database . The photo geolocation engine may display the location where the photograph was captured on a map via the output

In some implementations the photo processing tool and the geo location processing tool may be disposed on different devices interconnected via the network . Referring back to for example the photo processing tool and the geo location processing tool may be disposed on the application server . In these scenarios the photo tagging tool may communicate with the photo processing tool via the communication interface . The photo tagging tool may instruct the photo processing tool to perform the identification of the previously discussed identifiable features in the photograph. The photo tagging tool may receive one or several features identified in the photograph from the photo processing tool . Further the photo tagging tool may instruct the geolocation processing tool via the communication interface to determine the location where a photograph was captured. The instruction may include a reference to a time that was identified in photograph. Also the instruction may include a reference to the identity of an individual identified in the photograph.

In some cases the computing device may be a tablet computer or a smart phone. For example the computing device may be an APPLE IOS ANDROID OS or WEBOS based computing device. To reduce the burden imposed on the processor or to reduce the memory footprint of the photo geolocation engine the photo tagging tool may be generated to operate as a standalone application within the computing environment of the computing device in some implementations. In these implementations the photo tagging tool may communicate with the database the photo processing tool and the geo location processing tool via a cellular communication channel or a Wi Fi communication channel established through the communication interface for example As previously discussed the database the photo processing tool and the geo location processing tool may be disposed at a remote server connected to the network .

The following additional considerations apply to the foregoing discussion. Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter discussed in this disclosure.

Certain embodiments are described in this disclosure as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described in this disclosure.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions in this disclosure that use words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used in this disclosure any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used in this disclosure the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments discussed in this disclosure. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is apparent that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for determining the location at which an image was captured through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed in this document without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

