---

title: Method and apparatus for producing regulatory-compliant software
abstract: A method for producing regulatory-compliant software includes validating a software application and freezing the validated software application in a validation portal, proving-in an infrastructure on which the software application operates, and providing evidence of operational change management for a regulatory agency, which evidence comprises documentation that satisfies the agency's compliance rules. A regulatory-compliant software package is also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280450&OS=09280450&RS=09280450
owner: Medidata Solutions, Inc.
number: 09280450
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130301
---
Providing software for services governed by a regulatory body may require adhering to a number of requirements that do not exist outside of the regulatory environment. Indeed the cost for example in terms of money time or experience of complying with such requirements often keeps some software suppliers from providing software to regulated markets.

The life sciences area is no exception. Regulatory markets involving for example clinical trials toxicology or environmental protection are often governed by regulatory bodies such as the FDA Food and Drug Administration or the EPA Environmental Protection Agency in the United States and similar bodies in other countries. These agencies typically promulgate regulations that have the effect of making it difficult for software suppliers to provide software. For example they may be unfamiliar with the regulations or may not have the infrastructure to provide software that complies with such regulations and acquiring or developing such infrastructure may be too cost prohibitive.

In the clinical trials area regulatory requirements coupled with legacy practices can make performing clinical trials difficult. Some of the legacy practices include submitting clinical trial results to regulatory authorities in paper form. One way that life sciences companies that perform clinical trials have tried to reduce their expense is to use software programs that make some submissions electronically. Regulatory authorities have promulgated rules and recommendations governing such electronic submissions including electronic records and electronic signatures. In the United States the FDA s rules that govern electronic records and electronic signatures are found in 21 CFR Part 11 which is designed to ensure that the electronic submissions are trustworthy reliable and generally equivalent to paper records and handwritten signatures executed on paper. 21 CFR 11.1. According to the FDA s Guidance for Industry regarding Part 11 Electronic Records Electronic Signatures Scope and Application August 2003 Part 11 applies to records in electronic form that are created modified maintained archived retrieved or transmitted under any records requirements set forth in Agency regulations. Part 11 also applies to electronic records submitted to the Agency under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act the Act and the Public Health Service Act the PHS Act even if such records are not specifically identified in Agency regulations 11.1 . The FDA has also provided other guidance related to software for example in its General Principles of Software Validation Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff January 2002 .

Software suppliers may desire to offer software programs or applications to lessen the expense of clinical trials in particular and to improve performance in other regulatory areas. But the information generated by these software programs in addition to satisfying the regulatory agencies requirements related to the data themselves and the processes followed to collect the data must abide by those requirements. Navigating these requirements can be laborious and making sure that software is compliant often dissuades suppliers from generating regulatory solutions.

Where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the drawings to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Moreover some of the blocks depicted in the drawings may be combined into a single function.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used in a variety of applications. For example the techniques disclosed herein may be used in or with software in a variety of fields clinical drug or device studies and other projects in which software suppliers desiring to offer software solutions submit their software to a third party compliance provider to ensure the software complies with regulations. A specific example may be in the field of custom metal works manufacturing or custom orthodontic labs in which a practitioner may send a mold to a lab the mold may then be used to make a device or object subject to quality control and then the lab may test the mold pursuant to regulations and quality systems prior to returning it to the practitioner a patient or a customer.

In this specification a regulatory system or regulatory body or regulatory agency means any type of rules based system or rules generating body and is not limited to legal or law based systems or bodies such as the FDA EPA or other governmental approval organizations. For example a regulatory system regulatory body or regulatory agency could be a certification authority a standard setting organization or other public or non public organization that issues rules or requirements that software suppliers may desire to follow. Likewise terms such as rules regulations and requirements may be used interchangeably. Also the terms software supplier and software application supplier are used interchangeably in this specification and claims.

Software applications designed for regulatory systems are often required to be compliant with the various requirements of such systems. Compliance may mean that the software applications are 1 validated 2 deployed in a validated fashion e.g. proving in that the application as deployed is in fact the application that was actually validated 3 audited including that those audits are tracked in a compliant fashion and or 4 monitored to ensure that the validated status is maintained. Of course specific requirements are dependent on the situation this is not intended to be limiting.

The present invention may be used to automate and prove compliance of software applications including but not limited to those of smaller software suppliers who may lack the resources and knowledge to validate their own applications. It may also be used to open the regulatory software market to more regulatory software solutions. The techniques described herein may also create a standard or seal of approval in the specific regulatory industry for regulatory software compliance.

Reference is now made to which are various detailed block diagrams of a compliant software production system according to embodiments of the present invention. Broadly speaking in a software application supplier which may be a software vendor or regulatory software developer may provide non compliant software code and testable requirements to compliant software production system and compliant software production system may produce regulatory compliant software. Some regulatory systems may require that the software application supplier be accredited e.g. that there be evidence of the supplier s or the supplier s employees education training or experience. Thus in some embodiments and depending on the compliance regulations the software application supplier may already be accredited by or confirmed to have appropriate accreditation by the regulatory body but in other embodiments such accreditation may be performed by or confirmed by a compliant software producer. shows that in one embodiment compliant software production system may be made up of one or more of four main blocks validation block a block for proving in the infrastructure a block to provide evidence of operational change management which may include providing a regulatory compliant audit trail and a continuous monitoring block which may ensure continued compliance with regulatory requirements such as response time maintainability and execution time. shows that in one embodiment validation block may be made up of one or more of four blocks test execution proving in of software document generation for an auditor and electronic signing .

In operation the software application supplier may provide its application or source code to the compliant software producer which may host the code and or application in a hosted container which may be a type of development or testing environment. In operation the supplier may also provide to the compliant software producer via API application programming interfaces the testable requirements for the application as discussed above. These inputs from the supplier may be digitally signed so that the compliant software producer knows that they have come from a particular software application supplier and have not been tampered with. In cases where this is not the first submission from a software application supplier such as if the tests fail in operations or below the digital signature may inform the compliant software producer that the corrected code comes from the same supplier. In operations and the compliant software producer may use browser automation tools such as the Ruby programming language to run automated tests on the application to assess various functional requirements. These automated tests may interpret and execute the testable requirements against the supplier provided application via the hosted container. Execution of the automated tests may be used for example to ensure that the application does what it claims to do. This may include automated tests that verify that the application behaves as specified. Such tests may include but are not limited to performance tests review of design documents installation qualification operational qualification performance qualification code review for sufficient use of code styles code coverage cyclomatic or conditional complexity and requirements testing or functional verification. Such tests may also include other tests such as unit tests if testable requirements for such tests were provided by the software application supplier in operation . Although shown as two separate operations depending on the programming language interpretation in operation and execution in operation may both occur in the same operation rather than sequentially.

Operation asks whether the application passes the assessments that is if the supplier s application conforms to its testable requirements and passes the various functional requirements assessments as listed above. If not then in operation information as to what failed is generated and may be provided to the supplier in which case the supplier may after addressing any problems resubmit its application code and or testable requirements to the compliant software producer in operations and . If the supplier s application conforms to its testable requirements then in operation validation documentation may be generated including for example screen shots code tracing and validation certificate s as well as unit test results if unit tests were performed in operation . In operation the generated validation documentation may then be assembled into a validation portal for the supplier including providing navigation links to the supplier. In operation the supplier may then review the validation documentation on the validation portal and e sign the application that is provide a digital or electronic signature. If the supplier is already accredited the compliant software producer may verify such status based on the electronic signature provided by the supplier. The supplier s signature may then be sent back to the validation portal in operation and in operation the validation portal may be frozen such that no further changes may be made. At this point the validation portal includes all the material an auditor would need to perform a compliance audit so that the supplier itself need not have a quality system of its own.

After the software is frozen and operating operation asks whether the application is still operating per requirements that is that the application requirements are still being met. This may also include requirements that were not able to be fully tested during validation such as uptime response time and throughput. If so the system continuously asks the question again after a set amount of time. If the application is not meeting requirements in operation the compliant software producer may check the standard operating procedures SOPs which may include actions to be taken if or when the software has certain errors. One of the results of checking the SOPs may be to alert the software application supplier in operation in which case the supplier may review its application code and or testable requirements and resubmit one or both to the compliant software producer in operations and or . Operations may be considered to be part of continuous monitoring block or validation block depending on the regulatory system.

Besides the operations shown in other operations or series of operations are contemplated to validate a software application. Moreover the actual order of the operations in the flow diagram is not intended to be limiting and the operations may be performed in any practical order. For example operation may occur before operation .

Based on the supplier s choices the compliant software producer may put together a package and deploy it on a network for example a local or wide area network or the Internet into the cloud and host it. In more detail in operation the compliant software producer may use a hosting provisioning and deployment tool also known as a recipe deployment tool such as Chef which is a deployment language hosted by Amazon to build the supplier s instances and in operation deploy them for example put those instances on approved computing infrastructure and start running them . A Chef Recipe describes how to make a machine and may then make the machine. This may create a virtual machine in Amazon s cloud.

At this point all the materials needed for a regulatory compliant application may be generated or logged. The compliant software producer may produce platform installation reports PIRs and other log information traceability which are proof that the software that is running in production is the same as what was run during validation. A PIR is the compliant software producer s proof that the application deployed is exactly what was to be deployed and that the application works in production as previously validated i.e. at operation . The proof or log s may go into the validation portal in operation and may also go to the software application supplier in operation . In operation the compliant software producer may compare the installation reports of the software that was validated in operation and the software that is running in production in order to prove that what was validated is what is running in production. Besides the operations shown in other operations or series of operations may be used to prove in the infrastructure of a software application. Moreover the actual order of the operations in the flow diagram is not intended to be limiting and the operations may be performed in any practical order.

The previous embodiments are described in the setting of creating compliant software to be used in regulatory systems including clinical trials for drugs or medical devices trials for toxicology studies and EDMS electronic document management system . It is understood however that embodiments of the invention can be used in other fields involving compliance with rules in which software suppliers may wish to offer a software application but it is not cost effective for them to make sure the application is compliant with rules promulgated by organizations such as public or private certification authorities standards setting organizations or other rule setting bodies.

The blocks shown in are examples of modules that may comprise compliant software production system and do not limit the blocks or modules that may be part of or connected to or associated with compliant software production system . For example as mentioned before validation block may be visualized as being made up of test execution block proving in of software block document generation for an auditor block and electronic signing block . But those blocks indicate functions that may be performed while validating a supplier s software application and are not rigid descriptions of functions required for validation. In addition some regulatory systems may not require all of the blocks shown in or in the same order so for example software may be regulatory compliant after completing just validation and proving in of infrastructure while providing evidence of operational change management may not be needed or performed or may be performed as part of a post approval process. Similarly continuous monitoring may not be required by the regulatory authority may be performed as part of a post approval process or may be performed as part of a validation process. The blocks in may generally be implemented in software or hardware or a combination of the two.

An example of an application that may be validated by use of the present invention would be a system that connects via application programming interface s API to a hosted electronic health records EHR system to extract patient data and insert them into a clinical trial record. Such a system may make use of the platform data transport clinical data management and auditing functions of the invention. Another example of an application that may be validated by use of the present invention would be a system that receives data from a central lab enters it into a clinical trial record but also performs statistical analysis on the data to identify correlations and trends in the data surfacing that analytics only to key users e.g. so as not to unblind the trial . Such a system may make use of platform data transport and transformation capabilities auditing clinical data management data permissions visibility framework graphing and report generation and display. Yet another example of an application that may be validated by use of the present invention may be a system that converts data entry prompts and responses to and from Braille terminals so that electronic patient reported outcomes studies can be performed in blind and partially sighted populations. Such a system may make use of APIs to exchange data via the Internet study metadata services to read question prompts and clinical data management and auditing functions for the entry of the data.

Some of the benefits of the present invention are that software application suppliers desiring to offer software solutions to be used in regulatory activities do not need to be well versed in the regulatory agency s rules regarding electronic solutions or in rules regarding validation and testing of software and software infrastructure. This may be of a benefit to smaller software suppliers who have innovative applications to be used in the regulatory industry but lack the training manpower resources or economic means to learn and abide by the regulatory agency s rules regarding electronic solutions. The present invention also provides a platform and verified infrastructure with which the software can be used. The supplier provides to a compliant software producer the code and certain testable requirements that the software supplier wants to execute and the compliant software producer validates the code by testing it and executing the testable requirements and once the application works freezing the application s development. Then the compliant software producer proves in the infrastructure in which the application will be used according to the compliance rules. The compliant software producer with knowledge of the auditing requirements may then provide auditing services such as evidence of operational change management and audit trails to the software supplier that comply with those rules as well as continuous monitoring of the validated status. In addition a compliant software producer may offer multi region backups redundant live data mirroring and other services to make data 100 available. In all of these cases the supplier s software code need not be viewed by human eyes and thus can remain the intellectual property of the supplier.

Compliant software production system may be implemented on a network for example over the Internet as a cloud based service or hosted service which may be accessed through a standard web service API. This means that the compliant software production system can perform a regulatory compliant validation of a software application and then issue all of the appropriate regulatory documentation. Implementation may also include offering a platform as a service that hosts the software application and is rule compliant.

The present invention differs from other systems that may host or offer software for sale. For example those systems may have acceptance criteria but do not automatically validate such software. Those systems may lack validation portals may not provide proofs of quality may not enforce minimum training requirements may not provide ongoing testing of requirements via monitoring and may not provide audit functions. The present invention may also provide digital signature verification of the software.

Aspects of the present invention may be embodied in the form of a system a computer program product or a method. Similarly aspects of the present invention may be embodied as hardware software or a combination of both. Aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a computer program product saved on one or more computer readable media in the form of computer readable program code embodied thereon.

For example the computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example an electronic optical magnetic electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any combination thereof.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electromagnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code in embodiments of the present invention may be written in any suitable programming language. The program code may execute on a single computer or on a plurality of computers. The computer may include a processing unit in communication with a computer usable medium wherein the computer usable medium contains a set of instructions and wherein the processing unit is designed to carry out the set of instructions.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

