---

title: Conjugated polymers and their use in optoelectronic devices
abstract: The present invention relates to certain polymeric compounds and their use as organic semiconductors in organic and hybrid optical, optoelectronic, and/or electronic devices such as photovoltaic cells, light emitting diodes, light emitting transistors, and field effect transistors. The present compounds can provide improved device performance, for example, as measured by power conversion efficiency, fill factor, open circuit voltage, field-effect mobility, on/off current ratios, and/or air stability when used in photovoltaic cells or transistors. The present compounds can have good solubility in common solvents enabling device fabrication via solution processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09472764&OS=09472764&RS=09472764
owner: Polyera Corporation
number: 09472764
owner_city: Skokie
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 733 300 filed on Dec. 4 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under SC0001059 awarded by the Department of Energy FA9550 08 1 0331 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research and DMR1121262 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Bulk heterojunction BHJ polymer solar cells PSCs based on interpenetrating polymer donor and fullerene acceptor networks offer a compelling approach to efficient solar energy harvesting at low costs. While PSC performance has advanced steadily with 6 8 single junction power conversion efficiencies PCEs reported in the peer reviewed literature these metrics still lag behind those of inorganic cells. PCE is a key index of photovoltaic device performance and is the product of the short circuit current J open circuit voltage V and fill factor FF where Pis the incident solar power equation 1 

Accordingly the art desires new polymers for PSCs particularly those that can confer a high fill factor.

In light of the foregoing the present teachings provide novel polymeric compounds that can be used as organic semiconductor materials. Also provided are associated devices and related methods for the preparation and use of these compounds. The present compounds can exhibit properties such as optimized optical absorption good charge transport characteristics and chemical stability in ambient conditions low temperature processability large solubility in common solvents and processing versatility e.g. via various solution processes . As a result optoelectronic devices such as solar cells that incorporate one or more of the present compounds as a photoactive layer can exhibit high performance in ambient conditions for example demonstrating one or more of low band gap high fill factor high open circuit voltage and high power conversion efficiency and preferably all of these criteria. Similarly other organic semiconductor based devices such as OLETs can be fabricated efficiently using the organic semiconductor materials described herein.

The present teachings also provide methods of preparing such compounds and semiconductor materials as well as various compositions composites and devices that incorporate the compounds and semiconductor materials disclosed herein.

The foregoing as well as other features and advantages of the present teachings will be more fully understood from the following figures description examples and claims.

In one aspect the present teachings provide polymeric compounds including an electron acceptor unit A and an electron donor unit D where the electron acceptor unit A has the formula 

In another aspect the present teachings provide polymeric compounds including an electron acceptor unit A and an electron donor unit D where the electron acceptor unit A has the formula 

Compounds of the present teachings can exhibit semiconductor behavior such as optimized light absorption charge separation in a photovoltaic device charge transport recombination light emission in a light emitting device and or high carrier mobility and or good current modulation characteristics in a field effect device. In addition the present compounds can possess certain processing advantages such as solution processability and or good stability e.g. air stability in ambient conditions. The compounds of the present teachings can be used to prepare either p type donor or hole transporting n type acceptor or electron transporting or ambipolar semiconductor materials which in turn can be used to fabricate various organic or hybrid optoelectronic articles structures and devices including organic photovoltaic devices and organic light emitting transistors.

Throughout the application where compositions are described as having including or comprising specific components or where processes are described as having including or comprising specific process steps it is contemplated that compositions of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited components and that the processes of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited process steps.

In the application where an element or component is said to be included in and or selected from a list of recited elements or components it should be understood that the element or component can be any one of the recited elements or components or the element or component can be selected from a group consisting of two or more of the recited elements or components. Further it should be understood that elements and or features of a composition an apparatus or a method described herein can be combined in a variety of ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings whether explicit or implicit herein.

The use of the terms include includes including have has or having should be generally understood as open ended and non limiting unless specifically stated otherwise.

The use of the singular herein includes the plural and vice versa unless specifically stated otherwise. In addition where the use of the term about is before a quantitative value the present teachings also include the specific quantitative value itself unless specifically stated otherwise. As used herein the term about refers to a 10 variation from the nominal value unless otherwise indicated or inferred.

It should be understood that the order of steps or order for performing certain actions is immaterial so long as the present teachings remain operable. Moreover two or more steps or actions may be conducted simultaneously.

As used herein a p type semiconductor material or a donor material refers to a semiconductor material for example an organic semiconductor material having holes as the majority current or charge carriers. In some embodiments when a p type semiconductor material is deposited on a substrate it can provide a hole mobility in excess of about 10cm Vs. In the case of field effect devices a p type semiconductor also can exhibit a current on off ratio of greater than about 10.

As used herein an n type semiconductor material or an acceptor material refers to a semiconductor material for example an organic semiconductor material having electrons as the majority current or charge carriers. In some embodiments when an n type semiconductor material is deposited on a substrate it can provide an electron mobility in excess of about 10cm Vs. In the case of field effect devices an n type semiconductor also can exhibit a current on off ratio of greater than about 10.

As used herein mobility refers to a measure of the velocity with which charge carriers for example holes or units of positive charge in the case of a p type semiconductor material and electrons or units of negative charge in the case of an n type semiconductor material move through the material under the influence of an electric field. This parameter which depends on the device architecture can be measured using a field effect device or space charge limited current measurements.

As used herein a compound can be considered ambient stable or stable at ambient conditions when a transistor incorporating the compound as its semiconducting material exhibits a carrier mobility that is maintained at about its initial measurement when the compound is exposed to ambient conditions for example air ambient temperature and humidity over a period of time. For example a compound can be described as ambient stable if a transistor incorporating the compound shows a carrier mobility that does not vary more than 20 or more than 10 from its initial value after exposure to ambient conditions including air humidity and temperature over a 3 day 5 day or 10 day period.

As used herein fill factor FF is the ratio given as a percentage of the actual maximum obtainable power Por V J to the theoretical not actually obtainable power J V . Accordingly FF can be determined using the equation where Jand Vrepresent the current density and voltage at the maximum power point P respectively this point being obtained by varying the resistance in the circuit until J V is at its greatest value and Jand Vrepresent the short circuit current and the open circuit voltage respectively. Fill factor is a key parameter in evaluating the performance of solar cells. Commercial solar cells typically have a fill factor of about 0.60 or greater.

As used herein the open circuit voltage V is the difference in the electrical potentials between the anode and the cathode of a device when there is no external load connected.

As used herein the power conversion efficiency PCE of a solar cell is the percentage of power converted from absorbed light to electrical energy. The PCE of a solar cell can be calculated by dividing the maximum power point P by the input light irradiance E in W m under standard test conditions STC and the surface area of the solar cell Ain m . STC typically refers to a temperature of 25 C. and an irradiance of 1000 W mwith an air mass 1.5 AM 1.5 spectrum.

As used herein a component such as a thin film layer can be considered photoactive if it contains one or more compounds that can absorb photons to produce excitons for the generation of a photocurrent.

As used herein solution processable refers to compounds e.g. polymers materials or compositions that can be used in various solution phase processes including spin coating printing e.g. inkjet printing gravure printing offset printing and the like spray coating electrospray coating drop casting dip coating and blade coating.

As used herein a semicrystalline polymer refers to a polymer that has an inherent tendency to crystallize at least partially either when cooled from a melted state or deposited from solution when subjected to kinetically favorable conditions such as slow cooling or low solvent evaporation rate and so forth. The crystallization or lack thereof can be readily identified by using several analytical methods for example differential scanning calorimetry DSC and or X ray diffraction XRD .

As used herein annealing refers to a post deposition heat treatment to the semicrystalline polymer film in ambient or under reduced increased pressure for a time duration of more than 100 seconds and annealing temperature refers to the maximum temperature that the polymer film is exposed to for at least 60 seconds during this process of annealing. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that annealing can result in an increase of crystallinity in the polymer film where possible thereby increasing field effect mobility. The increase in crystallinity can be monitored by several methods for example by comparing the differential scanning calorimetry DSC or X ray diffraction XRD measurements of the as deposited and the annealed films.

As used herein a polymeric compound or polymer refers to a molecule including a plurality of one or more repeating units connected by covalent chemical bonds. A polymeric compound can be represented by the general formula 

As used herein alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched saturated hydrocarbon group. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl butyl e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl groups e.g. n pentyl iso pentyl neo pentyl hexyl groups and the like. In various embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group for example 1 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group . In some embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 6 carbon atoms and can be referred to as a lower alkyl group. Examples of lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl and butyl groups e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl . In some embodiments alkyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkyl group is generally not substituted with another alkyl group an alkenyl group or an alkynyl group.

As used herein haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more halogen substituents. At various embodiments a haloalkyl group can have 1 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Chaloalkyl group for example 1 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Chaloalkyl group . Examples of haloalkyl groups include CF CF CHF CHF CCl CHCl CHCl CCl and the like. Perhaloalkyl groups i.e. alkyl groups where all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms e.g. CFand CF are included within the definition of haloalkyl. For example a Chaloalkyl group can have the formula CHX where X at each occurrence is F Cl Br or I s is an integer in the range of 1 to 40 and t is an integer in the range of 1 to 81 provided that t is less than or equal to 2s 1. Haloalkyl groups that are not perhaloalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkoxy refers to O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy t butoxy pentoxyl hexoxyl groups and the like. The alkyl group in the O alkyl group can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkylthio refers to an S alkyl group. Examples of alkylthio groups include but are not limited to methylthio ethylthio propylthio e.g. n propylthio and isopropylthio t butylthio pentylthio hexylthio groups and the like. The alkyl group in the S alkyl group can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon double bonds. Examples of alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl butadienyl pentadienyl hexadienyl groups and the like. The one or more carbon carbon double bonds can be internal such as in 2 butene or terminal such as in 1 butene . In various embodiments an alkenyl group can have 2 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkenyl group for example 2 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkenyl group . In some embodiments alkenyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkenyl group is generally not substituted with another alkenyl group an alkyl group or an alkynyl group.

As used herein alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having one or more triple carbon carbon bonds. Examples of alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. The one or more triple carbon carbon bonds can be internal such as in 2 butyne or terminal such as in 1 butyne . In various embodiments an alkynyl group can have 2 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkynyl group for example 2 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkynyl group . In some embodiments alkynyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkynyl group is generally not substituted with another alkynyl group an alkyl group or an alkenyl group.

As used herein a cyclic moiety can include one or more e.g. 1 6 carbocyclic or heterocyclic rings. The cyclic moiety can be a cycloalkyl group a heterocycloalkyl group an aryl group or a heteroaryl group i.e. can include only saturated bonds or can include one or more unsaturated bonds regardless of aromaticity each including for example 3 24 ring atoms and optionally can be substituted as described herein. In embodiments where the cyclic moiety is a monocyclic moiety the monocyclic moiety can include a 3 14 membered aromatic or non aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. A monocyclic moiety can include for example a phenyl group or a 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl group each of which optionally can be substituted as described herein. In embodiments where the cyclic moiety is a polycyclic moiety the polycyclic moiety can include two or more rings fused to each other i.e. sharing a common bond and or connected to each other via a spiro atom or one or more bridged atoms. A polycyclic moiety can include an 8 24 membered aromatic or non aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring such as a Caryl group or an 8 24 membered heteroaryl group each of which optionally can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein a fused ring or a fused ring moiety refers to a polycyclic ring system having at least two rings where at least one of the rings is aromatic and such aromatic ring carbocyclic or heterocyclic has a bond in common with at least one other ring that can be aromatic or non aromatic and carbocyclic or heterocyclic. These polycyclic ring systems can be highly conjugated and optionally substituted as described herein.

As used herein cycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic carbocyclic group including cyclized alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups. In various embodiments a cycloalkyl group can have 3 to 24 carbon atoms for example 3 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. Ccycloalkyl group .

A cycloalkyl group can be monocyclic e.g. cyclohexyl or polycyclic e.g. containing fused bridged and or spiro ring systems where the carbon atoms are located inside or outside of the ring system. Any suitable ring position of the cycloalkyl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptatrienyl norbornyl norpinyl norcaryl adamantyl and spiro 4.5 decanyl groups as well as their homologs isomers and the like. In some embodiments cycloalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein heteroatom refers to an atom of any element other than carbon or hydrogen and includes for example nitrogen oxygen silicon sulfur phosphorus and selenium.

As used herein cycloheteroalkyl refers to a non aromatic cycloalkyl group that contains at least one ring heteroatom selected from O S Se N P and Si e.g. O S and N and optionally contains one or more double or triple bonds. A cycloheteroalkyl group can have 3 to 24 ring atoms for example 3 to 20 ring atoms e.g. 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group . One or more N P S or Se atoms e.g. N or S in a cycloheteroalkyl ring may be oxidized e.g. morpholine N oxide thiomorpholine S oxide thiomorpholine S S dioxide . In some embodiments nitrogen or phosphorus atoms of cycloheteroalkyl groups can bear a substituent for example a hydrogen atom an alkyl group or other substituents as described herein. Cycloheteroalkyl groups can also contain one or more oxo groups such as oxopiperidyl oxooxazolidyl dioxo 1H 3H pyrimidyl oxo 2 1H pyridyl and the like. Examples of cycloheteroalkyl groups include among others morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyranyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl oxazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and the like. In some embodiments cycloheteroalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein aryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring system or a polycyclic ring system in which two or more aromatic hydrocarbon rings are fused i.e. having a bond in common with together or at least one aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings. An aryl group can have 6 to 24 carbon atoms in its ring system e.g. Caryl group which can include multiple fused rings. In some embodiments a polycyclic aryl group can have 8 to 24 carbon atoms. Any suitable ring position of the aryl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of aryl groups having only aromatic carbocyclic ring s include phenyl 1 naphthyl bicyclic 2 naphthyl bicyclic anthracenyl tricyclic phenanthrenyl tricyclic pentacenyl pentacyclic and like groups. Examples of polycyclic ring systems in which at least one aromatic carbocyclic ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings include among others benzo derivatives of cyclopentane i.e. an indanyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system cyclohexane i.e. a tetrahydronaphthyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system imidazoline i.e. a benzimidazolinyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system and pyran i.e. a chromenyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system . Other examples of aryl groups include benzodioxanyl benzodioxolyl chromanyl indolinyl groups and the like. In some embodiments aryl groups can be substituted as described herein. In some embodiments an aryl group can have one or more halogen substituents and can be referred to as a haloaryl group. Perhaloaryl groups i.e. aryl groups where all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms e.g. CF are included within the definition of haloaryl. In certain embodiments an aryl group is substituted with another aryl group and can be referred to as a biaryl group. Each of the aryl groups in the biaryl group can be substituted as disclosed herein.

As used herein arylalkyl refers to an alkyl aryl group where the arylalkyl group is covalently linked to the defined chemical structure via the alkyl group. An arylalkyl group is within the definition of a Y Caryl group where Y is as defined herein. An example of an arylalkyl group is a benzyl group CH CH . An arylalkyl group can be optionally substituted i.e. the aryl group and or the alkyl group can be substituted as disclosed herein.

As used herein heteroaryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic ring system containing at least one ring heteroatom selected from oxygen O nitrogen N sulfur S silicon Si and selenium Se or a polycyclic ring system where at least one of the rings present in the ring system is aromatic and contains at least one ring heteroatom. Polycyclic heteroaryl groups include those having two or more heteroaryl rings fused together as well as those having at least one monocyclic heteroaryl ring fused to one or more aromatic carbocyclic rings non aromatic carbocyclic rings and or non aromatic cycloheteroalkyl rings. A heteroaryl group as a whole can have for example 5 to 24 ring atoms and contain 1 5 ring heteroatoms i.e. 5 20 membered heteroaryl group . The heteroaryl group can be attached to the defined chemical structure at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. Generally heteroaryl rings do not contain O O S S or S O bonds. However one or more N or S atoms in a heteroaryl group can be oxidized e.g. pyridine N oxide thiophene S oxide thiophene S S dioxide . Examples of heteroaryl groups include for example the 5 or 6 membered monocyclic and 5 6 bicyclic ring systems shown below 

Compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent group defined herein as a linking group capable of forming a covalent bond with two other moieties. For example compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent Calkyl group e.g. a methylene group a divalent Calkenyl group e.g. a vinylyl group a divalent Calkynyl group e.g. an ethynylyl group . a divalent Caryl group e.g. a phenylyl group a divalent 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group e.g. a pyrrolidylyl and or a divalent 5 14 membered heteroaryl group e.g. a thienylyl group . Generally a chemical group e.g. Ar is understood to be divalent by the inclusion of the two bonds before and after the group.

The electron donating or electron withdrawing properties of several hundred of the most common substituents reflecting all common classes of substituents have been determined quantified and published. The most common quantification of electron donating and electron withdrawing properties is in terms of Hammett values. Hydrogen has a Hammett value of zero while other substituents have Hammett values that increase positively or negatively in direct relation to their electron withdrawing or electron donating characteristics. Substituents with negative Hammett values are considered electron donating while those with positive Hammett values are considered electron withdrawing. See Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 12th ed. McGraw Hill 1979 Table 3 12 pp. 3 134 to 3 138 which lists Hammett values for a large number of commonly encountered substituents and is incorporated by reference herein.

It should be understood that the term electron accepting group can be used synonymously herein with electron acceptor and electron withdrawing group . In particular an electron withdrawing group EWG or an electron accepting group or an electron acceptor refers to a functional group that draws electrons to itself more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to halogen or halo e.g. F Cl Br I NO CN NC S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR CON R Chaloalkyl groups Caryl groups and 5 14 membered electron poor heteroaryl groups where Ris a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Chaloalkyl group a Calkoxy group a Caryl group a Ccycloalkyl group a 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and a 5 14 membered heteroaryl group each of which can be optionally substituted as described herein. For example each of the Calkyl group the Calkenyl group the Calkynyl group the Chaloalkyl group the Calkoxy group the Caryl group the Ccycloalkyl group the 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and the 5 14 membered heteroaryl group can be optionally substituted with 1 5 small electron withdrawing groups such as F Cl Br NO CN NC S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR and CON R .

It should be understood that the term electron donating group can be used synonymously herein with electron donor . In particular an electron donating group or an electron donor refers to a functional group that donates electrons to a neighboring atom more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Examples of electron donating groups include OH OR NH NHR N R and 5 14 membered electron rich heteroaryl groups where Ris a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Caryl group or a Ccycloalkyl group.

Various unsubstituted heteroaryl groups can be described as electron rich or excessive or electron poor or deficient . Such classification is based on the average electron density on each ring atom as compared to that of a carbon atom in benzene. Examples of electron rich systems include 5 membered heteroaryl groups having one heteroatom such as furan pyrrole and thiophene and their benzofused counterparts such as benzofuran benzopyrrole and benzothiophene. Examples of electron poor systems include 6 membered heteroaryl groups having one or more heteroatoms such as pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine as well as their benzofused counterparts such as quinoline isoquinoline quinoxaline cinnoline phthalazine naphthyridine quinazoline phenanthridine acridine and purine. Mixed heteroaromatic rings can belong to either class depending on the type number and position of the one or more heteroatom s in the ring. See Katritzky A. R and Lagowski J. M. John Wiley Sons New York 1960 .

At various places in the present specification substituents are disclosed in groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that the description include each and every individual subcombination of the members of such groups and ranges. For example the term Calkyl is specifically intended to individually disclose C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C and C Calkyl. By way of other examples an integer in the range of 0 to 40 is specifically intended to individually disclose 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 and 40 and an integer in the range of 1 to 20 is specifically intended to individually disclose 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 and 20. Additional examples include that the phrase optionally substituted with 1 5 substituents is specifically intended to individually disclose a chemical group that can include 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 0 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 2 5 2 4 2 3 3 5 3 4 and 4 5 substituents.

Compounds described herein can contain an asymmetric atom also referred as a chiral center and some of the compounds can contain two or more asymmetric atoms or centers which can thus give rise to optical isomers enantiomers and geometric isomers diastereomers . The present teachings include such optical and geometric isomers including their respective resolved enantiomerically or diastereomerically pure isomers e.g. or stereoisomer and their racemic mixtures as well as other mixtures of the enantiomers and diastereomers. In some embodiments optical isomers can be obtained in enantiomerically enriched or pure form by standard procedures known to those skilled in the art which include for example chiral separation diastereomeric salt formation kinetic resolution and asymmetric synthesis. The present teachings also encompass cis and trans isomers of compounds containing alkenyl moieties e.g. alkenes azo and imines . It also should be understood that the compounds of the present teachings encompass all possible regioisomers in pure form and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the preparation of the present compounds can include separating such isomers using standard separation procedures known to those skilled in the art for example by using one or more of column chromatography thin layer chromatography simulated moving bed chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography. However mixtures of regioisomers can be used similarly to the uses of each individual regioisomer of the present teachings as described herein and or known by a skilled artisan.

It is specifically contemplated that the depiction of one regioisomer includes any other regioisomers and any regioisomeric mixtures unless specifically stated otherwise.

As used herein a leaving group LG refers to a charged or uncharged atom or group of atoms that can be displaced as a stable species as a result of for example a substitution or elimination reaction. Examples of leaving groups include but are not limited to halogen e.g. Cl Br I azide N thiocyanate SCN nitro NO cyanate CN water HO ammonia NH and sulfonate groups e.g. OSO R wherein R can be a Calkyl group or a Caryl group each optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from a Calkyl group and an electron withdrawing group such as tosylate toluenesulfonate OTs mesylate methanesulfonate OMs brosylate p bromobenzenesulfonate OBs nosylate 4 nitrobenzenesulfonate ONs and triflate trifluoromethanesulfonate OTf .

Throughout the specification structures may or may not be presented with chemical names. Where any question arises as to nomenclature the structure prevails.

The present teachings relate to polymeric compounds that can be used as organic semiconductor materials. The present compounds can have good solubility in various common solvents and good stability in air. When incorporated into optical or optoelectronic devices including but not limited to photovoltaic or solar cells light emitting diodes and light emitting transistors the present compounds can confer various desirable performance properties. For example when the present compounds are used in a photoactive layer of a solar cell e.g. bulk heterojunction devices the solar cell can exhibit a high fill factor e.g. higher than about 50 preferably higher than about 60 and more preferably higher than about 70 and in turn a high power conversion efficiency e.g. about 3.0 or greater preferably about 6.0 or greater more preferably about 7.0 or greater and most preferably about 8.0 or greater .

In one aspect the present teachings provide polymeric compounds or polymers having an electron acceptor unit A and an electron donor unit D wherein the electron acceptor unit A has a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety represented by the formula 

While certain bithiopheneimide based polymers have been reported in the literature the inventors unexpectedly have discovered that copolymerizing a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety with an oligothiophene moiety e.g. a terthiophene T3 moiety a quaterthiophene T4 moiety a quinquethiophene T5 moiety and a sexithiophene T6 moiety can lead to polymers with substantially increased fill factor and in turn improved solar cell power conversion efficiencies PCEs . In particular as demonstrated by Example 8 comparing to copolymers of a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety and a bithiophene T2 moiety BTI T2 copolymers which exhibited a PCE of about 2 or less copolymers of a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety and a quaterthiophene T4 moiety BTI T4 copolymers were able to achieve a PCE of about 3 or higher. Even more unexpectedly copolymers of a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety and a terthiophene T3 moiety BTI T3 copolymers exhibited a PCE of about 7 or higher with some formulations achieving a PCE of about 8 or higher.

Accordingly in some embodiments the present polymeric compounds can have an electron acceptor unit A including a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety and an electron donor unit D comprising between 3 and 10 optionally substituted thienyl moieties. For example the electron donor unit D can have the formula 

In certain embodiments the present polymeric compounds can have an electron acceptor unit A including a bithiopheneimide BTI moiety and an electron donor unit D comprising between 3 and 5 optionally substituted thienyl moieties. More specifically the electron donor unit D can have the formula 

To illustrate in certain embodiments the electron donor unit D of the present polymers can comprise a terthiophene where optionally the terthiophene can be selected from the group consisting of 

To illustrate in certain embodiments the electron donor unit D of the present polymers can comprise a quaterthiophene where optionally the quaterthiophene can be selected from the group consisting of 

In various embodiments the electron donor unit D and the BTI containing electron acceptor unit A described herein together can comprise an alternating repeat unit of the formula 

Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that copolymerizing an oligothiophene containing unit in particular a terthiophene T3 moiety with other imide functionalized arene moieties can lead to polymers with substantially increased solar cell PCEs as demonstrated with BTI T3 copolymers. Imide functionalized arenes have various characteristics that make them attractive solar cell polymer electron acceptor units. For example their compatibility with solubilizing substituents electron deficient characteristics and structure enforcing geometries can integrate synergistically desirable optoelectronic properties into a single macromolecular architecture. First the strong imide group electron withdrawing capacity can enable tuning of the copolymer bandgap and frontier molecular orbital FMO energies which are of primary concern for optimizing solar cell performance. Second conjugated macro molecules typically can be synthesized using Pd mediated coupling reactions and the dibrominated imide monomer electron deficiency favors efficient Pd 0 catalyst C Br oxidative addition and subsequent coupling with electron rich comonomers to yield high molecular weight copolymers which is desirable for PSC performance. Third facile imide backbone N alkylation can enable manipulation of polymer solubility and solid state packing without disrupting close stacking required for efficient carrier transport and intermolecular donor acceptor interactions can promote close intermolecular orbital overlap. Furthermore the solubilizing crystallizing tendencies of imide N substituents should facilitate fine tuning of materials structural organization to optimize PSC performance.

Accordingly in another aspect the present teachings provide polymeric compounds or polymers having an electron acceptor unit A and an electron donor unit D wherein the electron acceptor unit A has an imide functionalized arene moiety represented by the formula 

More specifically the imide functionalized arene moiety can be selected from the group consisting of 

In particular embodiments the terthiophene containing electron donor unit D can be represented by the formula 

The present teachings therefore can encompass various alternating copolymers consisting of an imide functionalized arene electron acceptor unit A and a terthiophene containing electron donor unit D such as 

Polymers of the present teachings and monomers leading to the present polymers can be prepared according to procedures analogous to those described in the Examples. In particular Stille coupling or Suzuki coupling reactions can be used to prepare polymers according to the present teachings with high molecular weights and in high yields and purity as confirmed by H NMR spectra elemental analysis and or GPC measurements.

Alternatively the present polymeric compounds can be prepared from commercially available starting materials compounds known in the literature or via other readily prepared intermediates by employing standard synthetic methods and procedures known to those skilled in the art. Standard synthetic methods and procedures for the preparation of organic molecules and functional group transformations and manipulations can be readily obtained from the relevant scientific literature or from standard textbooks in the field. It will be appreciated that where typical or preferred process conditions i.e. reaction temperatures times mole ratios of reactants solvents pressures etc. are given other process conditions can also be used unless otherwise stated. Optimum reaction conditions can vary with the particular reactants or solvent used but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in the art by routine optimization procedures. Those skilled in the art of organic synthesis will recognize that the nature and order of the synthetic steps presented can be varied for the purpose of optimizing the formation of the compounds described herein.

The processes described herein can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy NMR e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy IR optical absorption emission spectroscopy e.g. UV visible mass spectrometry MS or by chromatography such as high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC gas chromatography GC gel permeation chromatography GPC or thin layer chromatography TLC .

The reactions or the processes described herein can be carried out in suitable solvents which can be readily selected by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents typically are substantially nonreactive with the reactants intermediates and or products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out i.e. temperatures that can range from the solvent s freezing temperature to the solvent s boiling temperature. A given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Depending on the particular reaction step suitable solvents for a particular reaction step can be selected.

Polymers disclosed herein can be soluble in various common organic solvents. As used herein a polymer can be considered soluble in a solvent when at least 0.1 mg of the polymer can be dissolved in 1 mL of the solvent. Examples of common organic solvents include petroleum ethers acetonitrile aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene and mesitylene ketones such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone ethers such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane bis 2 methoxyethyl ether diethyl ether di isopropyl ether and t butyl methyl ether alcohols such as methanol ethanol butanol and isopropyl alcohol aliphatic hydrocarbons such as hexanes esters such as methyl acetate ethyl acetate methyl formate ethyl formate isopropyl acetate and butyl acetate amides such as dimethylformamide and dimethylacetamide sulfoxides such as dimethylsulfoxide halogenated aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane chloroform ethylene chloride chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene and trichlorobenzene and cyclic solvents such as cyclopentanone cyclohexanone and 2 methypyrrolidone.

The polymers described herein can be dissolved dispersed or suspended in a single solvent or mixture of solvents to provide a composition suitable for solution processing techniques. In preferred embodiments the solvent can be selected from the group consisting of chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene o dichlorobenzene m dichlorobenzene p orobenzene or mixtures thereof trichlorobenzene benzene toluene chloroform dichloromethane dichloroethane xylenes trichlorotoluene methyl naphthalene e.g. 1 methylnaphthalene 2 methylnaphthalene or mixtures thereof chloronaphthalene e.g. 1 chloronaphthalene 2 chloronaphthalene or mixtures thereof and mixtures thereof. Various solution processing techniques have been used with organic electronics. Common solution processing techniques include for example spin coating slot coating doctor blading drop casting zone casting dip coating blade coating or spraying. Another example of solution processing technique is printing. As used herein printing includes a noncontact process such as inkjet printing microdispensing and the like and a contact process such as screen printing gravure printing offset printing flexographic printing lithographic printing pad printing microcontact printing and the like.

Polymers of the present teachings can exhibit semiconductor behavior including photoactive behavior such as optimized light absorption charge separation in a photovoltaic device charge transport recombination light emission in a light emitting device and or high carrier mobility and or good current modulation characteristics in a field effect device. In addition the present polymers can possess certain processing advantages such as solution processability and or good stability e.g. air stability in ambient conditions. The polymers of the present teachings can be used alone or in combination with other compounds to prepare either p type donor or hole transporting n type acceptor or electron transporting or ambipolar semiconductor materials which in turn can be used to fabricate various organic or hybrid optoelectronic articles structures and devices including organic photovoltaic devices and organic light emitting transistors. In some embodiments semiconductor materials incorporating one or more compounds of the present teachings can exhibit p type semiconductor activity ambipolar activity light absorption and or light emission.

The present teachings therefore further provide methods of preparing a semiconductor material and composites e.g. devices including the semiconductor material. The methods can include preparing a composition e.g. a solution or dispersion that includes one or more polymeric compounds disclosed herein dissolved or dispersed in a liquid medium such as a solvent or a mixture of solvents and depositing the composition on a substrate to provide a semiconductor material. The deposited semiconductor material can be processed further e.g. subject to an annealing step prior to formation of additional components thereon to complete a particular device structure.

Various articles of manufacture including optical devices optoelectronic devices and electronic devices such as thin film semiconductors photovoltaic solar cells photodetectors or photodiodes organic light emitting devices such as organic light emitting transistors OLETs that make use of the polymers disclosed herein are within the scope of the present teachings as are methods of making the same. The present polymers can offer processing and operation advantages in the fabrication and or the use of these devices.

For example articles of manufacture such as the various devices described herein can be an optical or optoelectronic device including a first electrode a second electrode and a photoactive component disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode where the photoactive component includes a polymer of the present teachings.

In various embodiments the optical or optoelectronic device can be configured as a solar cell in particular a bulk heterojunction solar cell. Polymers of the present teachings can exhibit broad optical absorption and or a tuned redox properties and bulk carrier mobilities making them desirable for such applications. In various embodiments the bulk heterojunction solar cells according to the present teachings can incorporate a blend material e.g. a blended film including a polymer of the present teachings as the donor material and an acceptor material as the photoactive layer. Typical acceptor materials include fullerene based compounds. Fullerenes useful in the present teachings can have a broad range of sizes number of carbon atoms per molecule . The term fullerene as used herein includes various cage like molecules of pure carbon including Buckministerfullerene C bucky ball and the related spherical fullerenes as well as carbon nanotubes. Fullerenes can be selected from those known in the art ranging from for example C C. In certain embodiments the fullerene can be selected from the range of Cto C. In particular embodiments the fullerene can be a Cfullerene derivative or a Cfullerene derivative such as 6 6 phenyl C butyric acid methyl ester PCBM or simply PCBM or 6 6 phenyl C butyric acid methyl ester PCBM . In some embodiments chemically modified fullerenes can be used provided that the modified fullerene retains acceptor type and electron mobility characteristics. Some common fullerene derivatives include bisadduct of PCBM Bis PCBM indene Cmonoadduct ICMA and indene Cbisadduct ICBA . Further other acceptor materials can be used in place of fullerenes provided that they have the required acceptor type and electron mobility characteristics. For example the acceptor material can be various organic small molecules polymers carbon nanotubes or inorganic particles quantum dots quantum rods quantum tripods TiO ZnO etc. .

A photoactive component according to the present teachings can be prepared as a blended film deposited from a solution or dispersion a blend composition containing a mixture of one or more of the present polymers and an acceptor compound such as fullerene e.g. PCBM . For example both the present polymer and the acceptor compound can be dissolved in chloroform chlorobenzene or a mixture thereof where the present polymer and the acceptor compound together can be present in the solution from about 0.5 wt to about 10 wt preferably from about 0.8 wt to about 5 wt and more preferably from about 1 wt to about 3 wt . The ratio of the present polymer to the acceptor compound can range from about 10 1 to about 1 10 by weight for example from about 5 1 to about 1 5 by weight from about 3 1 to about 1 3 by weight or from about 2 1 to about 1 2 by weight. The photoactive layer also can contain a polymeric binder which can be present from about 5 to about 95 by weight. The polymeric binder for example can be a semicrystalline polymer selected from polystyrene PS high density polyethylene HDPE polypropylene PP and polymethylmethacrylate PMMA . In some embodiments the polymeric blend can be used together with additional components that are optically active for example components that can assist in light harvesting by capturing and transferring excitons to one or both of the electron donor polymers electron acceptor polymers in the blend and or optically non active components to modify and or improve processing and or device performance. Such optically non active components can include alkanethiols e.g. alkanedithiols and other functionalized alkanes e.g. diiodoalkanes as known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 227 691.

The blend composition can be deposited on a substrate e.g. an electrode substrate preferably via a solution phase process followed by removal of the solvent or mixture of solvents to provide the photoactive layer. By having the blend composition provided as an intimate mixture of the present polymer and an acceptor compound bulk heterojunctions are created upon removal of the solvent optionally under reduced pressure and or elevated temperature during which nanoscale phase separation of the present donor polymers and the acceptor compound takes place. In some embodiments the depositing step can be carried out by printing including inkjet printing and various contact printing techniques e.g. screen printing gravure printing offset printing pad printing lithographic printing flexographic printing and microcontact printing . In other embodiments the depositing step can be carried out by spin coating slot die coating drop casting zone casting dip coating blade coating or spraying. When the film is formed by spin coating the spin speed can range from about 300 rpm to about 6000 rpm or from about 500 rpm to about 2000 rpm. Subsequent processing steps can include thermal annealing or irradiation of the deposited film. For example the blended film can be annealed from about 50 C. to about 300 C. preferably from about 70 C. to about 200 C. more preferably from about 90 C. to about 180 C. for about 1 min to about 20 minutes. The annealing step can be carried out under an inert atmosphere e.g. under nitrogen . Irradiation of the deposited film can be carried out using infrared light or ultraviolet light. As used herein annealing refers to a post deposition heat treatment to the semicrystalline polymer film in ambient or under reduced increased pressure for a time duration of more than 60 seconds and annealing temperature refers to the maximum temperature that the polymer film is exposed to for at least 30 seconds during this process of annealing. The photoactive layer typically can have a thickness ranging from about 30 nm to about 500 nm. In preferred embodiments the photoactive layer can be a thin film having a thickness of about 80 300 nm.

A representative solar cell generally includes a substrate an anode a cathode and a photoactive layer between the anode and the cathode that can incorporate one or more polymers of the present teachings. In some embodiments one or more optional interlayers can be present between the anode and the photoactive layer and or between the cathode and the photoactive layer.

The substrate can be a solid rigid or flexible layer designed to provide robustness to the device. In preferred embodiments the substrate can be transparent or semi transparent in the spectral region of interest. As used herein a material is considered transparent when it has transmittance over 50 and a material is considered semi transparent when it has transmittance between about 50 and about 5 . The substrate can comprise any suitable material known in the art such as glass or a flexible plastic polymer film.

The first and second electrodes should have different work functions with the electrode having the higher work function at or above about 4.5 eV the high work function electrode serving as the hole injecting electrode or anode and the electrode having the lower work function at or below about 4.3 eV the low work function electrode serving as the electron injecting electrode. In a traditional OPV device structure the high work function electrode or anode typically is composed of a transparent conducting metal oxide or metal sulfide such as indium tin oxide ITO gallium indium tin oxide GITO and zinc indium tin oxide ZITO or a thin transparent layer of gold or silver. The low work function electrode or cathode typically is composed of a low work function metal such as aluminum indium calcium barium and magnesium. The electrodes can be deposited by thermal vapor deposition electron beam evaporation RF or Magnetron sputtering chemical vapor deposition or the like.

In various embodiments the solar cell can include one or more optional interface layers interlayers between the anode and the photoactive layer and or between the cathode and the photoactive layer. For example in some embodiments an optional smoothing layer e.g. a film of 3 4 polyethylenedioxythiophene PEDOT or 3 4 polyethylenedioxythiophene polystyrene sulfonate PEDOT PSS can be present between the anode and the photoactive layer. The optional interlayer s can perform other functions such as reducing the energy barrier between the photoactive layer and the electrode forming selective contacts for a single type of carrier e.g. a hole blocking layer modifying the work function of the adjacent electrode and or protecting the underlying photoactive layer. In some embodiments a transition metal oxide layer such as VO MoO WOand NiO can be deposited on top of the ITO anode instead of using PEDOT or PEDOT PSS as the p type buffer. To improve device stability via modification of the cathode an n type buffer composed of LiF CsF or similar fluorides can be provided between the cathode and the photoactive layer. Other n type buffer materials include TiO ZnOand Cs doped TiO. Depending on the composition the interlayers can be solution processed e.g. sol gel deposition self assembled monolayers or deposited by vacuum processes such as thermal evaporation or sputtering.

In certain embodiments a solar cell according to the present teachings can include a transparent glass substrate onto which an electrode layer anode made of indium tin oxide ITO is applied. This electrode layer can have a relatively rough surface and a smoothing layer made of a polymer typically PEDOT PSS made electrically conductive through doping can be applied on top of the electrode layer to enhance its surface morphology. Other similar interlayers can be optionally present between the anode and the photoactive layer for improving mechanical chemical and or electronic properties of the device. The photoactive layer is composed of an all polymer blend as described above and can have a layer thickness of e.g. about 80 nm to a few m. Before a counter electrode cathode is applied an electrically insulating transition layer can be applied onto the photoactive layer. This transition layer can be made of an alkali halide e.g. LiF and can be vapor deposited in vacuum. Again similar to the anode other similar interlayers can be optionally present between the photoactive layer and the cathode for improving mechanical chemical and or electronic properties of the device.

In certain embodiments a solar cell according to the present teachings can have an inverted device structure where a modified ITO film is used as the cathode. For example the ITO can be modified by n type metal oxides or metal carbonates such as TiO ZnO Cs doped TiO and caesium carbonate. In particular embodiments the inverted OPV can include a solution processed ZnOn type interface layer as described in Lloyd et al. Influence of the hole transport layer on the initial behavior and lifetime of inverted organic photovoltaics 95 5 1382 1388 2011 . Compared with the traditional device structure inverted type devices can demonstrate better long term ambient stability by avoiding the need for the corrosive and hygroscopic hole transporting PEDOT PSS and low work function metal cathode. The anode of an inverted OPV cell can be composed of Ag Au and the like with an optional p type interface layer composed of transition metal oxides such as VO MoO WOand NiO.

Another aspect of the present teachings relates to methods of fabricating an organic light emitting transistor or an organic light emitting diode OLED that incorporates one or more semiconductor materials of the present teachings. For example in an OLED one or more compounds of the present teachings can be used as electron transporting and or emissive and or hole transporting materials. An OLED generally includes a substrate a transparent anode e.g. ITO a cathode e.g. metal and one or more organic layers which can incorporate one or more compounds of the present teachings as hole transporting p channel and or emissive and or electron transporting n channel materials. In embodiments where the present compounds only have one or two of the properties of hole transport electron transport and emission the present compounds can be blended with one or more further organic compounds having the remaining required property or properties.

In other embodiments the article of manufacture can be an electronic or optoelectronic device e.g. an organic light emitting transistor including a first electrode a second electrode and a semiconducting component in contact with the first electrode and the second electrode where the semiconducting component includes a compound of the present teachings. These devices can include a composite having a semiconducting component or semiconductor material of the present teachings and a substrate component and or a dielectric component. The substrate component can be selected from doped silicon an indium tin oxide ITO ITO coated glass ITO coated polyimide or other plastics aluminum or other metals alone or coated on a polymer or other substrate a doped polythiophene and the like. The dielectric component can be prepared from inorganic dielectric materials such as various oxides e.g. SiO AlO HfO organic dielectric materials such as various polymeric materials e.g. polycarbonate polyester polystyrene polyhaloethylene polyacrylate and self assembled superlattice self assembled nanodielectric SAS SAND materials e.g. as described in Yoon M H. et al. PNAS 102 13 4678 4682 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein as well as hybrid organic inorganic dielectric materials e.g. described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 642 504 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein . In some embodiments the dielectric component can include the crosslinked polymer blends described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 315 076 60 816 952 and 60 861 308 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated by reference herein. The composite also can include one or more electrical contacts. Suitable materials for the source drain and gate electrodes include metals e.g. Au Al Ni Cu transparent conducting oxides e.g. ITO IZO ZITO GZO GIO GITO and conducting polymers e.g. poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS polyaniline PANI polypyrrole PPy .

The following examples are provided to illustrate further and to facilitate the understanding of the present teachings and are not in any way intended to limit the invention.

All reagents were commercially available and were used without further purification unless otherwise stated. Anhydrous dichloromethane was distilled from CaH THF and toluene were distilled from Na benzophenone. Monomer 2 5 bis trimethylstannyl thiophene was purchased from Sigma Aldrich. PCBM was purchased from American Dye Source Inc. ADS71BFA purity 99 . 2 2 Bithiophene 3 3 dicarboxylic anhydride was prepared following procedures described in Letizia et al. N channel polymers by design Optimizing the interplay of solubilizing substituents crystal packing and field effect transistor characteristics in polymeric bithiophene imide semiconductors 130 9679 9694 2008 . 2 Hexyldecyl amine and 1 3 bis 5 bromo 3 n dodecyl thien 2 yl 5 2 hexyldecyl thieno 3 4 c pyrrole 4 6 dione were prepared following procedures described in Guo et al. Thieno 3 4 c pyrrole 4 6 dione based polymer semiconductors Toward high performance air stable organic thin film transistors 133 13685 13697 2011 . 2 Trimethylstannyl 3 decylthiophene was prepared following procedures described in Biniek et al. A 3 2 b thienothiophene alt benzothiadiazole copolymer for photovoltaic applications design synthesis material characterization and device performances 19 4946 4951 2009 .

Unless otherwise stated all reactions were carried out under inert atmosphere using standard Schlenk line techniques. UV Vis spectra were recorded on a Varian Cary 50 Scan UV Vis spectrophotometer. The solution absorption spectra of polymers were recorded on 10M based on repeating units chloroform solutions and the polymer film absorption spectra were recorded from films cast from 5 mg mL chloroform solutions. Differential scanning calorimetry DSC was performed on a TA model DSC 2920 with a heating ramp of 10 C. min under N. NMR spectra were recorded on Varian Unity Plus 500 500 MHz room temperature or Mercury 400 MHz high temperature spectrometers and chemical shifts are referenced to residual protio solvent signals. Elemental analyses EA of monomers and polymer samples were performed by Midwest Microlab Indianapolis Ind. . The electrochemical properties of the polymers were investigated as thin films in anhydrous acetonitrile under Nat a scan rate of 50 mV s using 0.1 M tetrakis n butyl ammonium hexafluorophosphate n Bu NPF as the supporting electrolyte. Pt electrodes were used as both the working and counter electrodes and an Ag wire was used as the pseudoreference electrode. Polymer films were drop cast onto the Pt working electrode from a 0.2 w w chloroform solution. Polymer molecular weights were determined on a Polymer Laboratories PL GPC 220 using trichlorobenzene as eluent at 170 C. vs polystyrene standards. Grazing incidence x ray scattering measurements were performed at Beamline 8ID of the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory. See Jiang et al. The dedicated high resolution grazing incidence X ray scattering beamline 8 ID E at the advanced photon source 19 627 636 2012 . An x ray wavelength of 1.6868 was used and data were collected using a 30 s exposure at a sample detector distance of 204 mm with a Pilatus photodiode array. Geometries orbital topologies and HOMO and LUMO energies were optimized using Density Functional Theory DFT computation. The B3LYP functional and the 6 31 G basis set were used as implemented in GAUSSIAN 03. See Becke Density functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchange 98 5648 5652 1993 Francl et al. Self consistent molecular orbital methods. XXIII. A polarization type basis set for second row elements 77 3654 3665 1982 and Frisch et al. Gaussian 03 Revision B.04 Gaussian Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. 2003.

A solution of 2 hexyldecyl amine solution 8.26 g 0.0342 mol in 500 mL of dichloromethane was added dropwise to the solution of 2 2 bithiophene 3 3 dicarboxylic anhydride 8.08 g 0.0342 mol in 500 mL of dichloromethane. After addition the reaction was stirred under reflux for 2 hours. Upon removal of the solvent the residue oil was purified by column chromatography using ethyl acetate as eluent to give the product 1a 15.68 g 96 yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.49 d 1H 7.40 d 1H 7.37 d 1H 7.27 d 1H 6.02 s 1H 3.27 m 2H 1.48 m 1H 1.22 m 24H 0.85 m 6H .

A solution of 1a 15.68 g 0.0328 mol in 100 mL of thionyl chloride was heated under reflux for 2 hours. Then all thionyl chloride was removed under vacuum. The residual oil was purified by column chromatography using dichloromethane hexane 1 1 as eluent to give the product 1b 13.28 g 88 yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.72 d 2H 7.23 d 2H 4.24 d 2H 1.92 m 1H 1.28 m 24H 0.87 m 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl ppm 162.53 137.59 133.48 133.28 124.42 49.62 36.62 32.10 32.03 31.86 31.84 30.28 29.96 29.75 29.52 26.63 26.60 22.88 22.86 14.34 14.32.

Bromine 2.34 g 14.6 mmol was added to a solution of imide 1b 1.68 g 3.65 mmol in 30 mL of dichloromethane followed by addition of ferric chloride 11.8 mg 0.07 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir in the dark for 6 h before 10 mL of saturated aqueous NaSOwas added and stirring continued for 0.5 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into 300 mL of dichloromethane washed three times with 200 mL of water and once with 100 mL of brine and dried over MgSO. The organic solution was next filtered and concentrated by evaporation to give a light yellow solid which was purified by column chromatography using DCM hexane 1 1 as eluent to give the product 1c 2.23 g 98 yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.66 s 2H 4.17 d 2H 1.86 m 1H 1.24 m 24H 0.87 m 6H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl ppm 160.95 137.54 135.73 133.56 112.71 49.84 36.51 32.13 32.04 31.82 31.77 30.24 29.94 29.77 29.54 26.58 22.90 22.87 14.36 14.33.

An air free flask was charged with 1c 1.32 g 2.14 mmol 2 trime thylstannyl 3 decylthiophene 2.48 g 6.41 mmol bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 150 mg 0.21 mmol and 60 mL of THF. The reaction mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 12 h then the solvent was removed by evaporation to afford a red solid which was purified by column chromatography over silica gel with CHCl hexane 1 3 as eluent to afford an orange oil as the product 1d 1.31 g 68 yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.74 s 2H 7.27 d 2H 6.97 d 2H 4.27 d 2H 2.82 t 4H 1.95 m 1H 1.68 m 4H 1.26 m 52H 0.87 m 12H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl ppm 162.14 141.59 136.17 135.41 133.34 130.91 130.47 128.80 125.46 49.80 36.60 32.13 32.06 30.70 30.33 30.00 29.92 29.89 29.87 29.82 29.79 29.67 29.57 29.55 29.53 22.90 22.88 14.32.

Bromine 320 mg 2 mmol was added to a solution of 1d 904 mg 1 mmol in CHCl HOAC 4 1 total volume 40 mL in one portion. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h and 50 mL of HO was then added. Next the reaction mixture was extracted three times with 50 mL of CHCl and the combined organic layer was washed with 50 mL of HO 50 mL of 10 aqueous KOH solution 50 mL of brine and dried over MgSO4. After filtration the solvent was removed by evaporation to afford an orange solid which was purified by column chromatography over silica gel with CHCl hexane 1 3 as eluent. The desired product was obtained as an orange solid 945 mg 89 yield . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl ppm 7.67 s 2H 6.94 s 2H 4.25 d 2H 2.74 t 4H 1.93 m 1H 1.64 m 4H 1.26 m 52H 0.87 m 12H . C NMR 125 MHz CDCl ppm 162.05 142.34 136.29 134.10 133.53 133.17 131.46 130.08 112.72 49.75 36.67 32.14 32.12 30.59 30.33 29.99 29.83 29.80 29.77 29.61 29.56 29.47 26.67 22.90 14.33.

An air free flask was charged with the two monomers 0.2 mmol each Pd dba and P o tolyl 1 8 Pd dba P o tolyl molar ratio Pd loading 0.03 equiv. . The flask and its contents were subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with argon followed by the addition of 4 mL of anhydrous toluene. The sealed reaction flask was then stirred at 110 C. for 72 h. Then 0.1 mL of 2 tributylstanny thiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 110 C. for another 12 h. Finally 0.2 mL of 2 bromothiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for another 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was dripped into 100 mL of methanol containing 5 mL 12 N HCl with vigorous stirring. After 4 h of stirring the polymer was transferred to a thimble. After drying the crude product was subjected to Soxhlet extraction using methanol acetone hexane dichloromethane and chloroform as solvents. After the final extraction with chloroform the polymer solution was then precipitated in 100 mL of methanol with vigorous stirring. The product polymer was collected by filtration and dried to afford a blue solid as the product 140 mg 71 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 130 C. ppm 7.81 br 2H 7.16 br 2H 7.10 br 2H 4.33 br 2H 2.88 m 4H 2.05 br 1H 1.80 m 4H 1.47 1.36 m 52H 0.95 m 12H . M 31 kDa PDI 2.9. Anal. Calcd for CHNOS C 70.75 H 8.29 N 1.42. Found C 70.89 H 8.53 N 1.54. M 31 kDa PDI 2.9.

An air free flask was charged with the two monomers 0.2 mmol each Pd dba and P o tolyl 1 8 Pd dba P o tolyl molar ratio Pd loading 0.03 equiv. . The flask and its contents were subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with argon followed by the addition of 4 mL of anhydrous toluene. The sealed reaction flask was then stirred at 110 C. for 72 h. Then 0.1 mL of 2 tributylstanny thiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 110 C. for another 12 h. Finally 0.2 mL of 2 bromothiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for another 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was dripped into 100 mL of methanol containing 5 mL 12 N HCl with vigorous stirring. After 4 h of stirring the polymer was transferred to a thimble. After drying the crude product was subjected to Soxhlet extraction using methanol acetone hexane dichloromethane and chloroform as solvents. After the final extraction with chloroform the polymer solution was then precipitated in 100 mL of methanol with vigorous stirring. The product polymer was collected by filtration and dried to afford a blue solid as the product 99 mg 42 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 130 C. ppm 7.82 s 2H 7.19 s 4H 7.12 s 2H 4.33 br 2H 2.89 m 4H 2.05 br 1H 1.80 m 4H 1.47 1.35 m 68H 0.95 m 12H . M 12 kDa PDI 2.6.

The polymer P3 was prepared following the procedure for the polymer P1 using 2 5 bis trimethylstannyl thiophene and 1 3 bis 5 bromo 3 n dodecyl thien 2 yl 5 2 hexyldecyl thieno 3 4 c pyrrole 4 6 dione as monomers. The monomer 1 3 bis 5 bromo 3 n dodecyl thien 2 yl 5 2 hexyldecyl thieno 3 4 c pyrrole 4 6 dione can be prepared according to the procedures described in Guo et al. Thieno 3 4 c pyrrole 4 6 dione based polymer semiconductors Toward high performance air stable organic thin film transistors 133 13685 13697 2011 . After the final extraction with chloroform the polymer solution was then precipitated in 100 mL of methanol with vigorous stirring. The polymer was collected by filtration and dried to afford a blue solid as the product 169 mg 88 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 130 C. ppm 7.25 s 2H 7.19 s 2H 3.62 br 2H 2.89 m 4H 1.95 br 1H 1.77 m 4H 1.46 1.36 m 60H 0.96 m 12H . M 40 kDa PDI 2.5. Anal. Calcd for CHNOS C 72.67 H 9.15 N 1.46. Found C 72.98 H 9.33 N 1.52. M 40 kDa PDI 2.5.

An air free flask was charged with the two monomers 0.2 mmol each Pd dba and P o tolyl 1 8 Pd dba P o tolyl molar ratio Pd loading 0.03 equiv. . The flask and its contents were subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with argon followed by the addition of 4 mL of anhydrous toluene. The sealed reaction flask was then stirred at 110 C. for 72 h. Then 0.1 mL of 2 tributylstanny thiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 110 C. for another 12 h. Finally 0.2 mL of 2 bromothiophene was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for another 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was dripped into 100 mL of methanol containing 5 mL 12 N HCl with vigorous stirring. After 4 h of stirring the polymer was transferred to a thimble. After drying the crude product was subjected to Soxhlet extraction using methanol acetone hexane dichloromethane and chloroform as solvents. After the final extraction with chloroform the polymer solution was then precipitated in 100 mL of methanol with vigorous stirring. The product polymer was collected by filtration and dried to afford a blue solid as the product 46 mg 27 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 130 C. ppm 7.84 s 2H 7.14 s 2H 4.35 s 2H 2.90 s 4H 2.01 br 1H 1.81 m 4H 1.46 1.36 m 44H 0.96 m 12H . M 9 kDa PDI 2.5.

The present polymers exhibit good solubility processibility 15 mg mL and respectable molecular weights by introducing appropriate core alkyl substituents. The P1 and P3 film absorption onsets at 686 and 681 nm respectively yield optical bandgaps Es of 1.82 and 1.81 eV respectively. Frontier molecular orbital FMO energies were estimated by cyclic voltammetry and the derived HOMO energies are 5.58 eV and 5.55 eV for P1 and P3 respectively. Such low lying HOMOs should favor higher Vs in polymer PCBM cells while 0.3 eV polymer fullerene LUMO LUMO offsets should favor exciton dissociation .

Polymer film crystallinity was first investigated by differential scanning calorimetry DSC which revealed thermal transitions at 340 C. 315 C. and 281 C. and 290 C. 259 C. for P1 and P3 respectively indicating significant crystallinity unlike typical TPD BTI benzodithiophene dithienosilole copolymers where such transitions are not detected. X ray diffraction XRD scans of P1 and P3 films evidence distinctive Bragg features with P3 showing reflections up to third order indicating significantly higher crystallinity than P1. That the diffraction patterns indicate crystalline film microstructures especially for P3 stands in contrast to many high performance PSC polymers which have amorphous or far less crystalline microstructures.

BHJ cells employing the inverted architectures ITO ZnO polymer PCBM MoO Ag were fabricated. Pre patterned ITO coated glass Thin Film Devices Inc. with a sheet resistance of 1052 o was used as the substrate. It was cleaned by sequential sonication in hexane deionized water methanol isopropanol and acetone. After UV ozone treatment Jelight Co. for 20 minutes a 20 nm electron transport hole blocking electron extraction layer of N type ZnO was prepared by spin coating at 5000 rpm a precursor solution prepared from 0.5 M zinc acetate dehydrate in 0.5 M monoethanolamine and 2 methoxyethanol under air. After cleaning the electrical contacts the ZnO substrates were immediately baked in air at 170 C. for 10 minutes then rinsed with DI water isopropanol and acetone and then dried in a glovebox. Active layer solutions were prepared from 8 10 mg mL solutions of the polymer with PCBM in chloroform CF chlorobenzene CB DIO or CF DIO in various ratios. For optimum device performance the devices were spun cast at 5000 rpm and 3000 rpm respectively. After spin coating the active layer a 7.5 nm MoOhole extraction layer was vacuum deposited followed by thermal evaporation of a 140 nm Ag anode through a shadow mask at 10Torr. Due to the inverted structure and accompanying environmental stability device characterization was performed in ambient without encapsulation.

Comparative devices were fabricated similarly using blend solutions composed of P4 and PCBM. All the blend solutions were prepare by dissolving P4 and PCBM in ortho dichlorobenzene host solvent and by incorporating small amounts of diiodooctane as processing additives.

For device characterization J V characteristics were measured under AM1.5G light 100 mW cm using the Xe arc lamp of a Spectra Nova Class A solar simulator. The light intensity was calibrated using an NREL certified monocrystalline Si diode coupled to a KG3 filter to bring spectral mismatch to unity. A Keithley 2400 source meter was used for electrical characterization. The area of all devices was 6 mm and a 6 mmaperture was placed on top of cells during all measurements. EQEs were characterized using an Oriel model QE PV SI instrument equipped with a NIST certified Si diode. Monochromatic light was generated from an Oriel 300 W lamp source.

Given the polymer donor PCBM blend morphology plays a critical role in BHJ PSC performance the neat and BHJ blend film microstructures were next characterized by grazing incidence wide angle X ray scattering GIWAXS . In plane and out of plane linecuts indicate mixed edge on and face on orientations with respect to the ZnO substrate plane for both P1 and P3 neat films as evidenced by the stacking features q 1.8 in the in plane and out of plane linecuts. The ratio of the areas under the out of plane stacking reflection in plane stacking reflection provides a qualitative measure of the relative preference for face on polymer orientation. For the neat films the face on edge on ratio is 2.1 and 1.7 for P1 and P3 respectively. The stacking distance for the P3 neat film is 3.65 slightly larger than 3.60 for P1. Note however that P3 exhibits a higher degree of ordered lamellar stacking particularly in the edge on orientation. After PCBM addition the polymer crystallinity is only slightly reduced in contrast to the reduced crystallinity reported for many high performance BHJ blends.

For the present blend films without DIO aided processing the P1 face on edge on ratio increases to 8.1 indicating increased preference for face on orientation while P3 continues to show mixed orientations face on edge on ratio 1.5 . In the blend films with DIO aided processing the measured stacking distances contract to remarkably short spacings of 3.62 and 3.56 for P3 PCBM and P1 PCBM respectively. In contrast reported stacking distances for other high performance BHJ donor polymers are typically somewhat longer 3.65 3.90 . Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the high FFs of the present polymers are believed to be connected with the unusually close stacking distances. Furthermore note that DIO addition promotes essentially complete face on orientation for the P3 PCBM films and predominant face on orientation for the P1 PCBM films face on edge on ratio 14 . To the inventors knowledge this is the first report of donor polymer face on preferential orientation on ZnO in an inverted PSC. High degrees of BHJ ordering close donor polymer interplanar spacings and preferential face on orientation are characteristics which are believed to promote sizeable carrier mobilities and efficient charge collection.

The polymer PCBM blend film morphologies were next investigated by TEM AFM and XPS. TEM images of P1 PCBM blend indicate lateral nanoscale phase separation with 10 20 nm domain sizes when DIO was used in the film processing versus 30 80 nm domain sizes without DIO. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the addition of DIO is believed to increase the interfacial area for exciton dissociation significantly in addition to promoting bicontinuous interpenetrating network formation. Without DIO separate toroid shaped domains are observed which lack effective percolation connectivity for efficient charge transport. AFM images reveal a similar trend nanoscale phase separation and interpenetrating networks emerge with DIO aided processing. Such interpenetrating networks have reduced grain boundaries and should provide continuous pathways for carrier migration to their respective electrodes and by suppressing charge accumulation and non germinate recombination should favor high FFs and Js.

TEM cross sectional images of optimized P1 PCBM devices also reveal a PCBM rich layer near the ZnO interface. In substantiation S and C mapping of the active layer cross sections by energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDS reveals a C rich layer at the blend ZnO interface distinct from the bulk film. Correspondingly the S content at this interface is significantly lower again indicating PCBM enrichment near the blend ZnO interface. Complementary depth profiled XPS was also used to probe S and C content on proceeding from the air BHJ interface through the active layer and to the buried active layer ZnO interface. Changes in the S C ratio also indicate vertical phase gradation with P1 P3 enrichment at the blend air interface and PCBM enrichment at the blend ZnO interface. This gradation likely arises at least in part from differences in the polymer and PCBM surface energies and their interactions with ZnO. shows a schematic diagram of the polymer PCBM blend microstructure. Note that polymer enriched and PCBM enriched layers would function as charge blocking regions to suppress electron leakage to the MoO coated anode and hole leakage to the ZnO coated cathode respectively thereby reducing interfacial charge recombination.

In summary and without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the high fill factors of the present polymers are believed to be ascribable to face on orientations crystalline film microstructures very close interplanar spacings ordered BHJ interpenetrating networks and vertical donor acceptor phase gradation.

All publications including but not limited to patents and patent applications cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference herein as though fully set forth.

The present teachings encompass embodiments in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the present teachings described herein. Scope of the present invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

