---

title: Solid oxide fuel cell systems with hot zones having improved reactant distribution
abstract: A Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) system having a hot zone with a center cathode air feed tube for improved reactant distribution, a CPOX reactor attached at the anode feed end of the hot zone with a tail gas combustor at the opposing end for more uniform heat distribution, and a counter-flow heat exchanger for efficient heat retention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09343758&OS=09343758&RS=09343758
owner: Protonex Technology Corporation
number: 09343758
owner_city: Southborough
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131119
---
This application is a continuation application and its related to and claims priority U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 645 054 filed on Oct. 4 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 614 023 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 367 167 filed on Feb. 6 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 304 122 the entire contents of each are herby incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with Government support under government contract DE FC36 04GO14318 awarded by the Department of Energy to Protonex Technology LLC. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The subject disclosure relates to fuel cells and more particularly to solid oxide fuel cell systems having hot zones with improved reactant distribution more uniform heat distribution and or more efficient heat retention.

Referring to a schematic view of a generator with a hot zone is shown. The generator has an electrochemical stack or solid oxide fuel cell SOFC typically operating at temperatures above 600 C. Several other support components are also operating at elevated temperature.

Commonly the SOFC is located within a hot environment to facilitate proper operation. In some instances an external furnace could provide a hot environment but the furnace size weight and power consumption may negate most practical benefits in many applications. For example for practical portable power generation applications the SOFC is preferably able to maintain stack temperature and operating environment in a compact and efficient package.

To accomplish maintaining the endothermic components at sufficient temperature the SOFC has an area of integration of the elevated temperature components referred to as the hot zone . The hot zone is insulated to reduce heat loss and maintain the desired operating temperature. The components of the hot zone include a fuel processing reactor such as without limitation a catalytic partial oxidation CPOX reactor for converting the system feed hydrocarbon fuel to a hydrogen and carbon monoxide rich feed for the stack of the generator . For example the CPOX reactor may convert a hydrocarbon fuel like propane or diesel to hydrogen and carbon monoxide by reaction with air over a catalyst. The CPOX product gases are then fed to the anode side of the SOFC stack . For liquid fuels the feed hydrocarbon fuel is readied for the CPOX reactor by using an atomizer or vaporizer.

The hot zone also includes an exothermic tail gas combustor that burns the remaining unutilized fuel from the stack to reduce CO emissions and also to utilize the remaining fuel energy in the form of heat within the hot zone . For example some hydrogen and carbon monoxide are oxidized with oxygen that is transported across the SOFC electrolyte not shown explicitly from the air on the cathode side of the SOFC stack . This remaining hydrogen and carbon monoxide are mixed with cathode exhaust in the tail gas combustor for burning in a homogenous flame and or over a catalyst.

The tail gas combustor exhaust enters a recuperator where the gas is cooled by exchanging heat with the incoming cathode air. The recuperator heat exchanger maintains heat within the hot zone by transferring heat from the SOFC exhaust gas to the inlet stack air.

A power conditioning unit also connects to the electrochemical stack . A CPOX air blower provides air to the CPOX reactor . A fuel pump expels fuel from a fuel tank to the vaporizer . A cathode blower provides air to the recuperator and cathode side of the electrochemical stack .

The approach of has several disadvantages. Each component requires piping to connect to the neighboring component. This plumbing requires a high temperature sealing method such as brazing or welding a very labor intensive and extremely difficult to automate process. Each hot zone component also requires special features for braze or weld joints to the attached piping. These special features are typically machined and result in high cost components.

Further some stack components are ceramic and sealing metal to ceramic joints is difficult such as shown in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0195782 published on Oct. 7 2004. The hot CPOX reactor and tail gas combustor are located away from the electrochemical stack which slows heating at startup. Assembling and joining these components in close proximity is difficult and requires packing a large volume in a small space. Consequently the support components can undesirably occupy as much hot zone volume as the electrochemical stack . The inability to closely integrate the hot zone components leads to a low hot zone power density and uneven distribution of heat. Further the large insulation surface around the hot zone may increase heat loss.

High fuel utilization is particularly desirable for high generator efficiency. The generator cannot alone utilize the fuel unless the SOFC is impracticably large. Thus the performance of the tail gas combustor is particularly important and serves as a source of thermal energy that can be used for other needs. For instance the thermal energy can keep the stack at operating temperature and balance heat losses through insulation and system exhaust.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 006 688 filed on Jan. 4 2008 the 688 application also recognized many shortcomings of the prior art and provided improvements thereto. The 688 application disclosed a solid oxide fuel cell system including a main plate an inner cylinder attached to the main plate an intermediate cylinder attached to the main plate such that the intermediate cylinder contains a cathode air stream and an outer cylinder attached to the main plate. An exhaust annular gap is formed between the intermediate and outer cylinders such that hot exhaust gases co flow through the exhaust annular gap and heat is transferred from the hot exhaust gases to the cathode air stream.

The hot zone provides key functions to support the SOFC stack operation including even temperature distribution throughout the stack volume even flow distribution of fuel gases to the anodes of all cells in the stack and even flow distribution of air to the cathodes of all cells in the stack. Combustion of unutilized fuel in the stack exhaust may also occur in the hot zone. Preferably there are minimal thermal losses through conduction across the hot zone boundaries and minimal thermal losses through hot exhaust gases.

Another function of the hot zone is to maintain stack operating temperature within an appropriate range. Stack operating temperature must be high enough to maximize electrolyte ionic conductivity and prevent carbon formation. Stack temperature must not be too high however to avoid lowering the open circuit potential increasing the electrolyte electrical conductivity and initiating thermal degradation of cell or system materials. These temperature limits depend on the materials used in the cells and stack and an exemplary ideal temperature range might be between 700 and 800 C. Keeping all cells in the stack within such a temperature range requires a design that minimizes thermal gradients in the stack.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 050 issued on Dec. 10 2002 to Sammes attempted to provide an integrated solid oxide fuel cell and reformer. However the heat exchanger design of Sammes has little surface area which leads to poor performance. Also the Sammes system is thermally unbalanced not only axially but radial temperature variation is also significant with regions of stagnant air.

It is an object of the subject technology to provide a SOFC system with a CPOX reactor configured such that the CPOX reactor is run at a desirable operating temperature and the CPOX catalyst temperature is not excessively high. It is another object of the subject technology to utilize a CPOX reactor with an atomizer to allow feeding liquid fuels to the SOFC system. Preferably the CPOX reactor tube diameter and length can be freely set. In order to accommodate any fuel feed mechanism the CPOX reactor may be located in partially in or outside the hot zone.

It is still another object of the subject technology to locate the CPOX reactor at a boundary of partially outside or even outside of the hot zone to reduce or control preheating and enable liquid fuel feed. Preferably the feed end of the CPOX reactor is easily accessed and not obstructed by other hot zone structures.

It is still another object of the subject technology to have a more uniform temperature distribution within the stack. In one embodiment the CPOX reactor and tail gas combustion heat sources are on opposing ends of the stack.

It is another object of the subject technology to have a more uniform radial temperature distribution in the stack.

It is yet another object of the subject technology to provide uniform air flow on the cathode side in the radial directions while minimizing regions of stagnant air. One embodiment uses a central feed tube.

It is still another object of the subject technology to increase thermal recuperation effectiveness by using counter flow heat exchanger designs.

In one embodiment the subject technology is directed to a solid oxide fuel cell system including an elongated stack having a first end and a second end. The stack includes a plurality of tubular cells each cell having an inner radius configured as an anode electrode portion and an outer radius configured as a cathode electrode portion. A support plate retains the stack and a feed can couples to the support plate to form an anode feed plenum adjacent the first end of the stack. A catalytic partial oxidation CPOX reactor is in fluid communication with the anode feed plenum for receiving a hydrocarbon fuel and air mixture to provide a hydrogen and carbon monoxide rich fuel anode feed stream to the anode feed plenum wherein the anode feed plenum is in fluid communication with the stack so that the anode feed stream passes through the tubular cells to become an anode exhaust.

The cathode air feed tube may extend from the first end to the second end of the stack to distribute radial flow evenly along the length of the tubular cells. The feed tube may also define a plurality of holes designed and positioned to achieve a desired air flow distribution. For example the plurality of holes may increase in size toward the second end of the stack. The solid oxide fuel cell system may further include an exhaust end tube sheet for further supporting the stack as well as an exhaust can that forms an anode exhaust plenum with the exhaust end tube sheet. The exhaust can may define an anode exhaust hole. A cathode chamber can depends from the support plate and surrounds the stack and the exhaust can while defining an exhaust gas hole near the anode exhaust hole to form a region in which the anode exhaust and the cathode exhaust mix to form a mixed exhaust stream. The solid oxide fuel cell system may also include a tail gas combustor catalyst at the second end of the stack for oxidizing unutilized fuel in the mixed exhaust stream. It is envisioned that the second end of the stack may be without a catalyst but still form a tail gas combustion zone wherein homogenous combustion occurs.

In another embodiment the subject technology is directed to a solid oxide fuel cell system including an elongated stack having a first end and a second end the stack including a plurality of tubular cells each cell having an inner radius configured as an anode and an outer radius configured as a cathode and a feed tube extending substantially centrally through the stack for providing a cathode feed stream across the tubular cells to become a cathode exhaust. The solid oxide fuel cell may also include a feed can coupled to the stack to form an anode feed plenum adjacent the first end of the stack and a CPOX reactor in fluid communication with the anode feed plenum for receiving a hydrocarbon fuel and providing an anode fuel stream to the anode feed plenum wherein the anode feed plenum is in fluid communication with the stack so that the anode fuel stream passes through the tubular cells to become an anode exhaust.

In still another embodiment the solid oxide fuel cell system further includes an exhaust end tube sheet with an exhaust can depending therefrom. A sheath sealingly surrounds the feed tube and sealingly couples to the exhaust end tube sheet so that an anode exhaust plenum is formed at the lower end of the stack within the exhaust can. As a result detrimental homogenous combustion will not occur at the bottom of the stack and a reducing environment is maintained about the electrical interconnects. Further in the event that the system were laid on its side the sheath and thereby the exhaust end tube sheet would carry some of the load of the stack to help prevent damage.

The exhaust can also defines an anode exhaust hole wherein the feed tube extends through the anode exhaust hole and a cathode chamber can depending from the support plate and surrounding the stack and the exhaust can. The cathode chamber can defines an exhaust gas hole near the anode exhaust hole to form a region in which the anode exhaust and the cathode exhaust mix to form a mixed exhaust stream.

In yet another embodiment the subject technology is a solid oxide fuel cell system including a main plate an elongated stack depending from the main plate the stack having a first end adjacent the main plate and a second end opposing the first end. A cathode chamber can depends from the main plate and surrounds the elongated stack the cathode chamber can defining an exhaust gases hole adjacent the second end. A recuperator can depends from the main plate and surrounds the cathode chamber can to form a first annular gap there between and at least one exhaust port near the first end of the stack. An outer can depends from the main plate and surrounds the recuperator can to form a second annular gap there between and at least one inlet port near the first end of the stack for receiving an inlet cathode stream. A cathode feed tube receives the inlet cathode stream near a second end of the stack such that a counter flow recuperator is formed between the first and second annular gaps by an exhaust stream passing from the exhaust gas hole to the at least one exhaust gas port.

The solid oxide fuel cell may also include a feed can coupled to the main plate for defining an anode air stream plenum adjacent the first end of the stack the anode air stream plenum being in fluid communication with the stack as well as a CPOX reactor in fluid communication with the anode feed plenum for receiving a liquid fuel and providing an anode fuel stream to the anode feed plenum. A thermal balance may be controlled by adjusting a cathode flow rate through the at least one inlet port and a fuel feed rate into the stack. The solid oxide fuel cell system may also include a tail gas combustor between the recuperator can and cathode chamber can. The main plate may be planar and substantially circular. The outer can may be generally tubular with a largely open end and closed end. The recuperator can may be generally tubular with a largely open end and substantially closed end. The cathode chamber can may be generally tubular with a largely open end and substantially closed end.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented and utilized in numerous ways including without limitation as a process an apparatus a system a device and a method for applications now known and later developed. These and other unique features of the system disclosed herein will become more readily apparent from the following description and the accompanying drawings.

The present invention overcomes many of the prior art problems associated with hot zone integration in fuel cell systems. The advantages and other features of the systems and methods disclosed herein will become more readily apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description of certain preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the drawings which set forth representative embodiments. All relative descriptions herein such as inner outer upward downward top bottom left right up and down are with reference to the Figures and not meant in a limiting sense.

Referring now to a cross sectional view of a SOFC system constructed in accordance with the subject technology is shown. The SOFC system includes an elongated stack that consists of a bundle of tubes or tubular cells . The tubular cells are connected by interconnects in accordance with the technology disclosed in co pending co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 895 333 filed Aug. 24 2007 entitled Electrical Interconnects for a Solid Oxide Fuel Cell Stack. The elongated stack has the tubular cells connected in series on both ends but alternative versions may only be connected at only one end. The SOFC tubes are arranged in a concentric hexagonal pattern in two rows with the inner row having six SOFC tubes and the outer row having twelve SOFC tubes . Each SOFC tube has an anode electrode on the inside and a cathode electrode on the outside. Much larger stacks may be made by adding more SOFC tubes in successive rings. The bundle of tubular cells is retained in an outer can . The outer can is surrounded by insulation to retain heat therein and thus form a hot zone therein. The SOFC tubes are mechanically supported by an anode feed end tube sheet at a top end within the hot zone . If the SOFC system were laid on its side an exhaust end tube sheet would carry some of the load and protect the SOFC tubes from breakage.

The CPOX reactor intakes fuel and air via a feed port for flow across a CPOX catalyst as denoted by arrow A. Fuel such as propane is premixed with air and reacted with ambient air over the CPOX catalyst to produce a SOFC fuel gas stream composed of primarily hydrogen carbon monoxide and nitrogen. In alternative embodiments the fuel is not necessarily premixed with air. For example the fuel may simply be sprayed or otherwise vaporized with air and directed over the CPOX catalyst .

Fuel gases from the CPOX reactor are fed to the SOFC tubes from an anode feed plenum formed by a feed can attached to the anode feed end tube sheet as denoted by arrows B. By positioning the CPOX reactor above the anode feed plenum liquid fuel may be sprayed onto the CPOX reactor catalyst .

By locating the CPOX reactor at a boundary of the hot zone the CPOX reactor may extend partially upward out of the hot zone or even be fully outside the hot zone . By locating the CPOX reactor at the top of the hot zone a diameter and length of the CPOX reactor may be sized and configured to accept liquid fuel. Thus the liquid fuel may be relatively cool until atomized which advantageously prevents pre ignition and alleviates fuel delivery problems particularly those associated with diesel fuel.

Fuel gases e.g. the reformed fuel are consumed by electrochemical oxidation in the SOFC tubes . Oxidation products and unutilized fuel are exhausted from the SOFC tubes into an anode exhaust plenum formed between the exhaust end tube sheet and the anode exhaust can . Anode exhaust gas exits the anode exhaust plenum through an anode exhaust hole in the anode exhaust can as denoted by arrow C.

Cathode air is fed to the hot zone through air inlet ports only one air inlet port shown as denoted by arrow D. The cathode air passes into an annular gap formed between the outer can and a recuperator can . The air inlet ports may be channels oriented normal to the recuperator can as shown tangential to the recuperator can or at an angle in between. For tangentially oriented inlet ports the inlet ports are preferably on opposing sides and directed in opposing Cartesian directions to impart a rotational component to the cathode air feed. Without being limited to any theory it is envisioned that a tangential orientation of the inlet port provides improved performance by improved circulation of the cathode air but any angle and orientation may be utilized.

After passing downward through the annular gap the cathode air then passes into a center feed tube as denoted by arrow E. The feed tube provides the cathode air to the stack in a radial flow direction outward from the feed tube which is centrally located within the stack . The center feed tube is perforated with holes in a pattern to provide a desired axial distribution of radial flow of cathode air. The center feed tube may have progressively smaller holes or fewer holes towards a top end in order to accomplish the even axial distribution. In another embodiment the center feed tube has slots which are varied in size number and or shape along a length thereof. In still another embodiment the center feed tube is a porous material.

The cathode air flows in a radial direction from the center feed tube across the SOFC tubes as denoted by arrow F. As the cathode air passes across the SOFC tubes oxygen is electrochemically consumed at the tube cathodes and transported as oxygen ions across the electrolyte and into the tube anodes. Thus oxygen depleted air is contained within a cathode chamber defined between the tube sheet and support sheet and surrounded by a cathode chamber can . As the cathode air approaches the cathode chamber can the direction of the cathode air flow changes from a radial to an axial direction as exemplified by arrow F. The cathode air exhaust exits the cathode chamber in a radial channel between the cathode chamber can and the outside of the anode exhaust can .

The cathode air exhaust exits the radial channel through an exhaust gases hole formed in the cathode chamber can . Since the exhaust gases hole is near and aligned with the anode exhaust hole anode and cathode exhaust gases begin to mix in a region between the anode exhaust hole and the exhaust gases hole in the cathode chamber can .

The exhaust gases hole also marks the beginning of a tail gas combustor where unutilized fuel is further oxidized. The tail gas combustor redirects the exhaust gases into a combustion zone with an optional porous flame holder . The porous flame holder can be a porous foam metal ceramic or even a screen structure. The flame holder can optionally be coated with catalyst material to promote catalytic combustion of unutilized fuel gas.

Combusted exhaust gases leaving the tail gas combustor enter a channel formed between the outside of the cathode chamber can and the inside of a recuperator can . The inside surface of recuperator can and or the outside surface of the cathode chamber can may optionally be coated with an active combustion catalyst to provide a second stage tail gas combustor that will complete the combustion of unutilized fuel gases. Hot zone exhaust exits the hot zone through exhaust ports as denoted by arrow H.

The SOFC system provides an efficient counter flow heat exchanger. Heat from the exhaust gases flowing upward along arrow H is transported across the cylindrical wall of the recuperator can into the cold cathode air feed flowing downward along arrow D. Thus the recuperator or counter flow heat exchanger reduces heat loss in the exhaust by heating the inlet cathode air using heat from the exhaust. Heat loss to the environment is further minimized by the feed end insulation the recuperator insulation and the combustor end insulation

As can be seen mechanical support for the cells is provided by the anode feed end tube sheet and the exhaust end tube sheet . The anode feed end tube sheet supports the stack within the insulation . The outer can cathode chamber can and recuperator can may also depend from the anode feed end tube sheet . In another embodiment the outer can cathode chamber can and recuperator can are attached to each other at an outer most radius near the exhaust ports. Lips on these cans may be seam welded or clamped at the lips. The anode feed tube sheet may be supported between the feed can and the cathode chamber can . The exhaust end tube sheet may help to support the stack and or the exhaust can . The exhaust end of the stack is free to move axially with differences in thermal expansion between other components in the hot zone. One or more of the cans may include dimpling or similar attachments and modifications to fix radial orientations. For example the exhaust can and the cathode chamber can may be dimpled to maintain a concentric relationship there between.

Upon start up the CPOX catalyst is initially ignited with an electrical igniter not shown that heats some of the CPOX catalyst to above an ignition temperature. Then the tail gas combustor is ignited to produce a flame after the flame holder . The flame can be ignited using a hot surface igniter or spark igniter not shown . These two oxidation reactions produce heat for heating the stack to an operating temperature at which point electrical power can be drawn from the SOFC system .

In operation stack temperature which is measured by a thermocouple is controlled by balancing heat inputs against heat losses. Heat is generated in the SOFC system due to exothermic oxidation reactions in the CPOX reactor catalyst and also by the tail gas combustor and stack inefficiencies. Heat is lost through the insulation and ineffective recuperation of hot exhaust. In the SOFC system the thermal balance can be controlled by adjusting the cathode air flow rate which determines the amount of heat coming out in the exhaust. Also the fuel feed rate into the hot zone and electrical power being removed significantly impact the thermal balance. For example one can turn off the load on the SOFC system and reduce the fuel feed to change the thermal balance. Additionally the cathode air is typically moved by a blower and the fuel feed rate controlled by a fuel pump . Thus the blower and pump can be used to maintain thermal balance.

The SOFC system is also well balanced thermally. The CPOX reactor and tail gas combustor are both exothermic. By locating the CPOX reactor and tail gas combustor at opposing ends of the stack these heat sources are distributed within the SOFC system to reduce the axial temperature variations.

As a large amount of heat is commonly lost through the insulation in prior art small generator systems the outer tubes are commonly cooler than the centralized tubes which creates uneven radial temperatures. The SOFC system also addresses this phenomenon by having the relatively cold air inlets on the outside of the heat exchanger whether it be counter or co flow. Thus the colder air envelops the stack to provide an insulative effect and reduce the temperature up against the insulation. Although the cooler air absorbs heat the cathode air passes into the center feed tube as denoted by arrow E is still relatively cooler than the central tubes . Thus the cathode air will provide some cooling effect on the central tubes and thus the radial temperature will be more uniform.

To withdraw electrical power from the SOFC system an anode power lead penetrates the feed can and a cathode power lead penetrates the feed end tube sheet near an outer diameter thereof. Various wire pairs such as for the CPOX igniter and tail gas combustor igniter may pass through the insulation boundary to attach to the appropriate igniter as needed. Alternatively the wire pairs may pass through the feed port inlet port and or exhaust port to avoid penetration of the insulation 

Preferably low resistance wires are used for the anode lead and the cathode lead to carry the electric current. The leads pass through the feed can through a feed through not shown that maintains a gas seal on each side of the feed can and also electrically insulates the feed can from the leads . The anode power lead passes through the feed can such that the anode lead is exposed to a hydrogen containing environment on the inside of the feed can and an oxygen containing environment on the outside of the feed can . Although silver and copper both have low resistivities copper will oxidize quickly at temperatures over 400 C. and silver while stable in an oxidizing environment has high solubilities for both hydrogen and oxygen leading to mechanical failures when insoluble water is generated within the metal as noted in a paper by Singh P. Yang Z. Viswanathan V. and Stevenson J. W. 2004 entitled Observations on the Structural Degradation of Silver During Simultaneous Exposure to Oxidizing and Reducing Environments J. Mater. Eng. Perform. 13 pp. 287 294.

In view of these problems alternate materials such as nickel or high temperature alloys like inconel have been used but the higher resistivity of these metals undesirably requires a larger wire diameter. The current can also be carried through the material of the feed can . To overcome these drawbacks the SOFC system preferably extends the wire feed through seal using a tube not shown such that the gas boundary is located outside the insulation thus maintaining a cool temperature for the portion of wire that is exposed to oxygen. As a result the SOFC system can use either silver copper or any other electrically conductive material that can withstand oxidizing environments at or around 250 C. as the current carrying anode power lead.

Now referring to another embodiment of a SOFC system is shown in cross section and referred to generally by the reference numeral . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the pertinent art the SOFC system utilizes similar principles to the SOFC system described above. Accordingly like reference numerals preceded by the numeral 3 instead of the numeral 2 are used to indicate like elements. The primary difference of the SOFC system in comparison to the SOFC system is the addition of element s for improved flow distribution and relocation of the cathode air inlet .

Achieving even anode flow distribution among all the SOFC tubes is important for operation at high fuel utilization. As the SOFC system scales to different sizes and multiple rows of tubes distributing gas flow through the tubes can be enhanced by adding a distribution device . In the embodiment shown the distribution device is a gas diffuser in the anode feed end of the stack below the CPOX reactor and another gas diffuser below the bottom end of the stack . Both diffusers are not necessarily needed in all applications and either may accomplish the necessary flow re distribution depending upon the particular application. The diffusers consist of a plate perforated with holes. The diameter of the diffuser holes and their distribution in the plate can also be adjusted to control the gas flow distribution. Alternatively the distribution device may include restrictors reshaping of existing surfaces a baffle various deflectors a porous sheet screen or other material that helps distribute flow.

The distribution device also includes a flow restrictor in each of the SOFC tubes for improving gas flow. The restrictor can be any device that imposes a controlled pressure drop through each tube . Different pressure drops through restrictors in different tubes could be useful to overcome anything that might cause uneven pressure drops through tubes before the restrictors are in place. Examples could be manufacturing or assembly tolerances cracks in the tubes intentional design for poor pressure matching between tubes in order to achieve cost reductions weight savings or any other desirable characteristics. In addition it is possible that the restrictors might only be used in certain tubes and not others to achieve the desired flow distribution. Preferably the restrictor is an insert with a controlled hole diameter through which the gas flows. Alternatively porous plugs and or perforated disks may be used. In one embodiment the restrictors or like device are a configuration that has controllable pressure drop characteristics. Furthermore the flow restrictor could be an integral part of the interconnect or attached to the interconnect to aid in fixing the restrictor location. While the figure shows the restrictor at the inlet end of the tubes multiple restrictors could be used in various locations such as at the outlet end or any place within the tube .

Still referring to the cathode air inlet is relocated away from the exhaust ports in order to provide more control over the temperature distribution within the hot zone . The cathode air inlet is located closer to the outlet end of the stack . By such arrangement cooling from the cold cathode inlet air is provided near the tail gas combustor which is typically the hottest location of the hot zone . As a result axial temperature distribution may be accomplished with acceptable reduction in the effectiveness of the recuperator. It is noted that the exhaust gases hole if sized properly may act as a flame holder for the first stage of the tail gas combustor .

The illustrated embodiments are understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail of certain embodiments and therefore features components elements and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined interconnected sequenced separated interchanged positioned and or rearranged without materially departing from the disclosed systems or methods. Additionally the shapes and sizes of components are also exemplary and can be altered without materially affecting or limiting the disclosed technology. Accordingly while the invention has been described with respect to preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that various changes and or modifications can be made to the invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

All patents published patent applications and other references disclosed herein are hereby expressly incorporated in their entireties by reference.

