---

title: Near-IR laser-induced vibrational overtone absorption systems and methods for material detection
abstract: Embodiments of present invention are directed to near infrared (IR) laser-induced vibrational absorption systems and methods for material detection. According to one embodiment, a system for detecting materials may include: at least one laser configured to output light in the near IR spectrum so as to excite at least one vibrational overtone frequency, at least one combination band frequency, or a combination thereof, of a sample comprised of one or more of materials; a detector configured to detect a physical phenomenon of the sample in response to laser excitation; and an analyzer configured to the analyze the detected physical phenomenon and to identify the one or more materials based comparison of the detected signatures with known signatures of one more materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335267&OS=09335267&RS=09335267
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09335267
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 669 205 entitled Near IR Laser induced Vibrational Overtone Absorption Systems and Methods for Material Detection filed Jul. 9 2012 herein incorporated by reference as though described in its entirety herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the detection of materials including hazardous and explosive materials.

Detection of materials such as energetic or explosive materials toxic industrial chemicals and chemical agents is of great importance for various military and homeland security applications. Energetic materials may include 1 3 5 trinitrotoluene TNT 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazacyclohexane RDX 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexanitro 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazoisowurtzitane CL20 for instance.

Conventional methods for detection of energetic materials however pose a challenge because these materials typically have very low vapor pressures and present a minimal amount of material to conventional detectors that sense vapors. As such these materials may be difficult to detect spectroscopically at ambient conditions. The difficulty stems in part because they do not emit sufficient vapors at atmospheric pressure for their sensing. For example RDX has a vapor pressure of about 5 10torr app. 7 10Pascal or 7 ppt v parts per trillion by volume at ambient conditions which is about three orders of magnitude less than TNT. Other hazardous compounds such as some chemical nerve agents e.g. VX also have low vapor pressures at ambient conditions and thus present a similar challenge for their detection. An added complication is that vapor molecules of energetic materials and other materials tend to readily adsorb to surfaces so that molecules available for detection are reduced further. Material detection by light emission and or absorption is challenging because the resulting spectra lack distinguishable features particularly in the ultraviolet and visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum the emissions signals are quenched by collisions at atmospheric pressure or a combination thereof.

Numerous methods and devices have been developed to reduce the risk to the general population and military personnel by detecting the presence of materials. For instance ion mobility spectrometry IMS with detection limits on the order of 1 10 ppb is the current state of the art for sensing vapors and is commonly in use in airports and other secured areas. This detection limit is still higher than the vapor pressures of many relevant energetic materials.

Laser based strategies also exist for detecting energetic materials on surfaces. Some laser spectroscopic strategies include laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS laser photofragmentation fragment detection PF FD and Raman spectroscopy. LIBS uses high powered focused laser beams to completely break down a complex energetic material into its constituent elements. When using LIBS as a detection technique the breakdown of energetic material into atomic constituents can hinder positive energetic material identification. In contrast PF FD breaks down the complex explosive molecule into larger fragments or signature molecular groups such as NOand NO that are subsequently detected by UV laser induced fluorescence LIF and or resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization REMPI thus indicating the presence of the energetic material. Both LIBS and PF FD are indirect methods for energetic materials detection. They do not identify the energetic materials but instead identify characteristic fragments resulting from the photolysis or decomposition of the energetic materials. As a result the selectivity of these methods is not as high as those that involve direct detection. Also trace quantities of atmospheric nitrous oxide NO may interfere with the measurements. This potentially leads to high false positive rates.

Raman spectroscopy is a laser based approach that has proven successful to detect directly energetic materials. The technique uses a laser to probe the molecule s fundamental vibrational and rotational states from the inelastic scatter of photons. However without UV resonance enhancement Raman spectroscopy suffers from weak signals. Furthermore practical Raman instruments require high resolution dispersive elements and an arrayed charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS detector arrays resulting in complex electronics. Additional electronics lead to high complexity and power consumption.

Photoacoustic spectroscopy may be used for detecting energetic materials. Alexander Graham Bell discovered the photoacoustic effect in 1881 when he found that materials emit sound when exposed to a rapidly interrupted beam of sunlight. The sample converts part of the absorbed laser light into heat which can be transferred to the ambient air. The pressure fluctuation caused by rapid sample heating and cooling appears as compression and rarefaction of the air and results in sound. Absorption features in the ultraviolet visible or infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum correspond to a molecule s electronic ultraviolet and visible or vibrational transitions infrared . Most molecules contain broad spectral features in the ultraviolet region but exhibit sharp well defined features in the infrared. These defined features enhance a sensor s selectivity and as a result many of them employ infrared wavelengths.

Ethylene glycol dinitrate EGDN nitroglycerine NG and 2 4 Dinitrotoluene DNT vapors have reportedly been detected in the parts per billion using a 9.6 m COlaser and spectra and models of TNT and RDX at COlaser wavelengths ranging from 9.6 to 11.6 m have been reported. Recently a photoacoustic spectroscopy system and technique for remote sensing of explosives toxic chemicals was disclosed using a pulsed tunable laser such as a COlaser to detect NG DNT TNT and ammonium nitrate NHNO . However the low vapor pressure of most explosives such as RDX and CL20 precludes their detection with this technique at ambient temperature and pressure. In the case of TNT the sensor s signal to noise ratio is poor because the vapor pressure of TNT is low at ambient conditions. Also ambient levels of CO NH O and HO interfere strongly in this spectral region.

And more recently remote identification of gas phase explosives and other harmful materials by semiconducting nanoparticle photoluminescence or photoacoustics have been reported. As mentioned above though gas phase detection of most explosives cannot be achieved at room temperature and pressure and for limited cases such as TNT the signal to noise is very poor. Nanoparticle luminescence is restricted to energetic materials synthesized with such particles. Most energetic materials do not contain these particles because they may lower the overall system performance or because they may help in tracking the energetic materials origin.

Energetic materials possess vibrational absorption features which can be exploited for detecting many compounds in the vapor phase. The use of tunable cascade lasers and photoacoustics to detect trace gases TNT triacetone triperoxide TATP and precursors of acetone and hydrogen peroxide have been disclosed. While this technique may work for samples with high vapor pressures at ambient conditions it has been shown to work very poorly for various energetic materials such as TNT because it has very little vapor pressure at ambient conditions. Solid phase RDX and CL20 have vapor pressures that are several orders of magnitude lower than TNT at ambient conditions and they will present a formidable challenge for this technique.

Embodiments of present invention are directed laser induced vibrational overtone absorption systems and methods for material detection.

According to one embodiment a system for detecting materials may include at least one laser configured to output light in the near IR spectrum so as to excite at least one vibrational overtone frequency at least one combination band frequency or a combination thereof of a sample comprised of one or more of materials a detector configured to detect a physical phenomenon of the sample in response to laser excitation and an analyzer configured to the analyze the detected physical phenomenon and to identify the one or more materials based comparison of the detected signatures with known signatures of one more materials.

According to another embodiment a method for detecting and monitoring materials may include exciting at least one vibrational overtone frequency at least one combination band frequency or a combination thereof of a sample comprised of one or more of materials using at least one laser which outputs light in the near IR spectrum detecting a physical phenomenon of the sample in response to laser excitation and analyzing the detected physical phenomenon to identify the one or more materials based comparison of the detected signatures with known signatures of one more materials.

Embodiments of present invention are directed to laser induced vibrational overtone absorption systems and methods for material detection by exciting at least one vibrational overtone frequency at least one combination band frequency or a combination thereof. One or more lasers may output light in the near infrared IR spectrum having wavelengths between about 0.75 to 2.0 m in some embodiments.

An overtone or harmonic absorption is the absorption of electromagnetic energy e.g. light that takes a molecule from the ground vibrational state v 0 to the second or higher vibrationally excited state v 2 3 4 etc. of a given vibrational mode. For a non linear molecule of N atoms there are 3N 6 vibrational modes where each vibrational mode can absorb its own distinct optical frequency. A linear molecule has 3N 5 vibrational modes. If the fundamental frequency of a vibrational mode is defined as F then a molecule will have 3N 6 or 3N 5 fundamental frequencies F where i 1 2 3 . . . up to 3N 5 depending on its geometry. Thus molecular vibrational spectra are rich in molecular structure information and each molecule has its own unique vibrational spectral fingerprint. The fundamental absorption only involves an absorption by the ground vibrational state to the first excited state v 1 of a given vibrational mode. This type of absorption is common in standard Raman scattering or conventional mid IR absorption spectra as they typically involve only the fundamental vibrational frequencies.

In contrast overtone bands are typically analogous and are multiples of the fundamental absorption frequency and provide additional signatures for identifying molecules. These bands appear typically in the near IR spectral region. For instance the first overtone absorption may be defined as the absorption of light that takes a molecule or atom from the ground vibrational state v 0 to the second excited vibrational state v 2 . The energy required for the first overtone is slightly less than twice the fundamental because molecules do not have equally spaced energy levels. Since energy is proportional to the frequency absorbed and this is proportional to the wavenumber the first overtone will appear in the spectrum at approximately twice the wavenumber of the fundamental.

Combination bands arise when at least two fundamental vibrations absorb energy simultaneously. If the fundamental frequencies of two vibrational modes are Fand F then combination bands may be found at frequencies near nF mF where n and m are integer values 1 2 3 . . . etc.

To date excitation of a vibrational overtone frequency and or combination band frequency wavelength in the 1.5 to 2.0 micron spectral region for material detection has been overlooked and not used because the absorption cross sections of these transitions are typically an order of magnitude less than those occurring in the fundamental absorption spectral region 3 to 4 microns .

Although the absorption cross sections of a molecule s overtones and or combination bands are typically less than its fundamental absorption there are several advantages of using the overtone absorption bands of energetic materials. First the availability of laser sources with very high output in this spectral region up to several orders of magnitude compared to those in the fundamental absorption region more than compensates for the relatively weaker overtone absorptions compared to the fundamental absorptions. Second this region does not suffer from the interference from water vapor as much as other IR regions. This attribute is particularly important for remote sensing of materials by the methods and systems disclosed herein. Third some molecules may exhibit spectral features due to combination bands near the overtone bands thus increasing the spectral selectivity of the laser based detection technique. Fourth this spectral region is eye safe because it offers the highest protection to the laser operator or bystander compared to other laser spectral regions. Laser wavelengths shorter than this region cause damage to the eye s retina whereas longer wavelengths cause more damage to the cornea. Other advantages of employing overtone absorptions and or combination bands instead of fundamental absorptions will be discussed below.

The disclosed systems and methods herein may be used for detection of various materials on many different surfaces near or at ambient conditions i.e. 20 C. to 55 C. 0 100 Relative Humidity and near or at standard ambient pressure e.g. 760 mm Hg or 10Pascal at 25 C. . Detected materials may include various materials such as for example energetics explosives propellants chemical warfare agents industrial pollutants and other hazardous materials or benign materials in various environments for instance.

Moreover they may be used for detecting very small or trace amounts of materials on the order of 1 nanogram ng even for materials that have low or no vapor pressure.

In various embodiments non contact detection systems for materials are disclosed. The systems utilize near IR electromagnetic energy light to stimulate or otherwise excite overtone absorptions or combination thereof in a suspect material. The light may be generated by a laser for example.

In response to this stimulation compounds and molecules of the suspect material may become excited and expresses a physical phenomenon. In some embodiments the suspect material emits sound waves due to the photo acoustic effect. This sound results from the conversion of laser absorbed energy into heat i.e. non radiative process. Photoacoustic absorption spectra for these compounds reveal that each spectrum is unique to each measured material and can serve as a fingerprint for that material. Unlike most optically based detection methods photoacoustic methods are highly insensitive to light scattering by substrates and are only sensitive to actual absorption of optical radiation. Thus absorption measurements of rough surfaces such as pavement sand stone etc can be examined without the need for accounting for extinction due to light scattering. Alternatively or additionally molecules of a suspect material can also ionize and or emit radiation once excited by laser radiation.

A detector may be configured to detect or measure the physical phenomenon. In the case of measuring sound waves a microphone may be provided for instance. Other detectors may be used for measuring or detecting other physical phenomenon generated when overtone vibrational bands absorb optical energy. From detected data a signature of the suspect explosive can be generated and analyzed by an analyzer. The analyzer may search or compare detected sensor data against a library or database of known material signatures to determine one or more best matches for example.

Indeed laboratory experiments conducted by the inventors show that explosives and families of explosives have unique signatures which may be detected and identified using near IR laser induced vibrational overtone absorption. Other types or families of molecules may be likewise detected and identified in this manner.

As mentioned above near IR light may be utilized to excite suspect materials. This includes electromagnetic energy light having wavelengths between about 0.75 to 2.0 m. Although other optical wavelengths are suitable for photoacoustic spectroscopy such as mid IR wavelengths the inventors have found that near IR wavelengths are advantageous in that they overcome a number of technical limitations associated with other wavelengths such as visible ultraviolet UV and infrared wavelengths including those from mid IR e.g. 3 12 m to far IR e.g. greater than 250 m . Some of these technical limitations are as follows 

First lasers operating in the near IR are capable of high tunable outputs up to hundreds of milli Watts without requiring cryogenic or thermo electric cooling. On the other hand the cooling requirements of mid IR quantum cascade lasers impose severe limitations on sensors based on those light sources in terms of power consumption size weight and cost. Second unlike quantum cascade lasers which operate mostly in a narrow spectral range app. 100 cm in the wavelength region 6 12 m and COlasers whose output is restricted to tens of descrete wavelengths in the wavelength region 9 11 m near IR lasers can be tuned over the entire near IR spectral region e.g. 0.75 2 m . Third near IR wavelengths do not suffer from interference from water vapor as much as the mid IR and far IR wavelengths. This attribute is particularly important for remote sensing applications. Fourth unlike ultraviolet and visible wavelengths as would be used for example with Raman detection near IR wavelengths generally pose no significant issue for human sight. This spectral region is eye safe because it offers the highest protection to the laser operator suspect or bystander compared to other laser spectral regions. Laser wavelengths shorter than this region cause damage to the eye s retina whereas longer wavelengths cause more damage to the eye s cornea.

Some of the disclosed detection systems lend themselves to rapid in field or in situ detection of suspect materials without having to prepare the suspect materials for detection compared with a laboratory setting. Moreover by providing remote detection systems users may be kept at a safe distance e.g. up to tens of meters or more from the suspect explosive or other dangerous or hazardous materials. Of course detection systems according to embodiments of the present invention may also be used in the laboratory setting as well.

As can be appreciated from each of the energetic materials has a distinctive signature. For example although both RDX and TNT are generally cyclic and contain various C H molecular bond stretches. The overtone and combination bands of RDX are very distinct from the overtone bands of TNT. Thus the sample s overtone and or combination spectra may serve as a basis of their identification. In experiments the inventors employed an optical parametric oscillator laser because it is continuously tunable in the optical wavelength range of interest. However signature information can be obtained also with a few discrete wavelengths.

Various elements of the system may be incorporated into a housing or other structure thus forming a unitary apparatus in some embodiments. The housing may also include an appropriate power supply for instance. As such the system embodied as an apparatus may provide a compact and portable device with minimal power requirements which may be mounted on an unmanned ground vehicle UGV robot or other platform. Also it might also be mounted on a hand manipulated boom for mine or improvised explosive device IED detection for example. Although other applications are possible. In some embodiments not all elements illustrated in the figure will be provided and or other elements may be provided. Additionally it will be appreciated that the elements may be present or may be positioned in locations other than illustrated in this schematic.

The system may include at least one laser . In one embodiment the laser may be a diode laser or an optical parametric oscillator laser configured to operate in the near IR spectrum having a wavelength between about 750 to 2 000 nm 0.75 to 2.0 m .

Light from laser is configured to operate at pre selected optical frequencies which excite at least one overtone frequency at least one combination band frequencies or a combination thereof of a sample comprised of one or more of materials. The laser may be a diode laser for instance. Depending on desired operation the laser may be continuous or modulated at a fixed acoustic frequency pulsed tunable or a combination thereof. Modulated lasers at a fixed frequency facilitate filtering of ambient acoustic noise. Pulsed lasers are advantageous when the desired wavelength is only attainable with non linear optics yet the power of the resulting acoustic response is spread out over many acoustic frequencies and can be more difficult to separate from ambient noise. To capture the unique spectral fingerprint of a hazardous material laser tunability is required to capture as much of the absorption spectrum as possible. A wave generator generates and outputs signals to a laser driver which controls the laser . Laser is configured to excite energetic residues of hazardous materials such as explosives that may be present on a surface.

In some embodiments multiple light sources may be employed for the laser . For example an array of diode lasers operated at different acoustic frequencies and emitting different optical wavelengths can be used to measure the material response to all the emitted laser wavelengths simultaneously. These are chosen based on a principle component analysis of near infrared spectra of the material to be detected and common substrate materials for maximum discrimination and sensitivity. Each laser element in the light source array may operate at a distinct optical wavelength and is also modulated at its own acoustic frequency typically in the range of 5 20 kHz. This frequency range may be sufficient since environmental noise usually interferes at the lower acoustic frequencies. In one implementation the lasers may be driven with square wave pulses and 50 duty cycle to create sinusoidal wave responses from absorbing substrates. To ensure easy filtering of the acoustic signal elicited from each laser element it may be advantageous to ensure that there is adequate difference in modulation frequency between all the individual laser elements.

The beam from the laser may pass through optics for directing i.e. focusing the directed beam toward the target sample . For instance the optics may include one or more rotation beam scanners lenses beam combiners beam windows beam steering stages collimators or any combination thereof. Each laser beam may be focused to the same sampling area on the substrate that is being probed.

The sample may include materials including one or more of explosives propellants chemical warfare agents hazardous materials etc. In various implementations and uses of system the detection and monitoring of energetic materials such as 1 3 5 trinitrotoluene TNT 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazacyclohexane RDX 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexanitro 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazoisowurtzitane CL20 and other hazardous materials such as chemical warfare and toxic industrial chemicals TICS may be important for various military and security interests. In addition molecules containing methylidyne CH hydroxyl OH and or nitrogen monohydride N H components may be of particular importance for example since overtone absorptions for many moieties such as for example those having C H O H and NH vibrations fall in the near IR wavelength region. An appropriate selection of laser wavelengths should be made to obtain sufficient selectivity and adequately low false positive rates.

As shown the sample is depicted as a solid residue on a surface or substrate . Various surfaces such as for example luggage clothing epidermises skin vehicles and buildings etc. may exist which include suspect materials. However it will be appreciated that the sample may be in various forms including those in a liquid phase including aqueous solutions e.g. in water or water comprised solution and non aqueous solutions e.g. formulated in peroxides in a vapor phase e.g. an aerosol or in a solid phase e.g. films residues powders coatings etc . In response to the sample being irradiated by light the sample is stimulated and excited. This may cause specific vibrations of chemical bonds in the material. For example carbon to hydrogen C H nitrogen to hydrogen N H oxygen to hydrogen O H phosphorus to hydrogen P H phosphorus to oxygen P O or other stretches combination bands and or other vibrations involving two or more atoms may be excited in this manner. As each compound or its surrounding environment produces its own characteristic change in pressure temperature or other related thermodynamic parameter various energetic molecules can be monitored and distinguished. These particular phenomena enhance the selectivity of the system.

This excitation causes the sample to express a physical phenomenon or multiple phenomena in some cases. The physical phenomenon may include but is not limited to a sample s change in pressure temperature density refractive index displacement or changes in the sample s surrounding medium such as air. If sufficient laser energy is absorbed by material on a surface then a photoacoustic signal may occur. In this case molecules of the sample convert part of the absorbed radiation into heat which is transferred to the ambient air. The change in pressure of the air produces acoustic or sound waves which result from non radiative and collisional processes. In some instance these may be further enhanced at atmospheric pressure. Alternatively or additionally one or more tunable lasers can be used to irradiate the sample and probe the induced change in temperature induced surface displacement or related phenomena of the sample or its environment.

These physical phenomena can be measured and or detected. Thus a detector is provided which is configured to measure or detect the physical phenomenon of the sample in response to excitation by the laser . While one detector is illustrated in the figure it will be appreciated that multiple detectors may be provided for measuring or detecting discrete phenomena.

In particular spectral fingerprints of energetic materials are present in near IR wavelength region. These fingerprints are different than those in the mid infrared and arise from overtone absorptions e.g. absorption of light that takes a molecule from the ground vibrational state to an excited vibrational state involving vibrations and or combinations of these vibrations in the energetic materials. This may include the C H bond stretching vibrations and or others.

Photoacoustic absorption spectra for various energetic materials including TNT RDX and CL20 at atmospheric pressure and temperature show unique spectra to each measured material which can serve as a fingerprint for that material. In the case of CL20 for example various polymorphs have been detected. Fingerprint information can be obtained with one or a few discrete wavelengths. Other materials are believed to have unique fingerprints and signatures which may be similarly detected and identified.

In the case of measuring or detecting photoacoustic phenomenon the detector may include a microphone to detect their emitted sound waves. The microphone may be a standard electret microphone that has a sufficient sensitivity for instance. In some implementations an acoustic mirror may be further provided which concentrates photoacoustic signals onto the microphone. For high frequencies such as e.g. 10 20 kHz an acoustic mirror on the order of about 10 cm in diameter may be sufficient.

Alternatively or additionally the detector may include other detectors to monitor the temperature or other thermodynamic property of the sample or its environment and changes thereof. For example the detector may be configured to measure or detect a a change in pressure in the sample and or its environment b a change in temperature in the sample and or its environment c a change in the displacement of the sample and or its environment d a change in index of refraction in the sample and or its environment e a change in reflectivity in the sample and or its environment and or f a change in light emission from the sample and or environment. In some embodiments the detector may have the capability of detecting change in pressure of the sample s environment e.g. in this case air but should work for aqueous and other environments by using a microphone see e.g. and have the capability to measure sample displacement using piezoelectric film or laser interferometer see e.g. . The sample temperature may be measured by optical or infrared pyrometry using a probe laser and the sample s surrounding air temperature may be measured by laser Raman scattering of nitrogen N . In the latter case the probe laser may be tuned to various Nro vibrational transitions and the temperature calculated from the change in the Boltzmann distribution of the Nmolecules. The index of refraction may be measured by laser interferometry see e.g. or by a laser based system such as the one described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 292 379 herein incorporated by reference.

Because an acoustic signal is generally inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the sample and the microphone the detector may be spaced from the sample by a relatively small non contact distance e.g. on the order of centimeters for a high signal to noise S N ratio. On the other hand where pressure temperature index of refraction reflectivity and or other phenomenon of the sample or its environment are being monitored the system may positioned near or far from the sample . In these cases the system may be positioned remotely from the sample by a relatively large non contact distance e.g. on the order of tens of meters or even more. In the case of optical signals the received physical phenomena as light may pass through optics for directing i.e. focusing the directed light toward the detector . For example a laser vibrometer may be used in place of a standard acoustic microphone. An advantage to this approach is that only displacement on the sample surface is detected. Thus pressure waves originating from the air in the pathlength of the excitation laser from vapor especially water vapor cannot contribute to the detected signal. An added benefit is that this arrangement does not suffer from signal loss at the surface interface with the air. Additionally it becomes possible to access acoustic ultrasound frequencies e.g. f 100 kHz where there is little acoustic noise.

The physical phenomena may be detected amplified with a standard amplifier circuit and or filtered before during or after being measured or detected by the detector . It may be digitized using an analog to digital converter so that there is a signal strength number associated with each laser s operating wavelength. The signals whether originating from a microphone or other detectors may be fed into an amplifier connected to a frequency filter . An analog to digital A D converter may also be provided to digitize the output signals which are then fed to an analyzer .

The analyzer is configured to analyze the detected physical phenomenon measured or detected by the detector and to identify the one or more materials corresponding to that of the sample . In some embodiments the identification may be based on comparison of the detected physical phenomenon with known signatures of one or more materials. A Fourier analysis or other regression analysis and or principal component analyses may be used for identification in various embodiments. The analyzer may be a computer or microprocessor for example for processing.

A database may comprise one or more electronic databases which store known signature for various materials. Database may be a rational database for example. Various material signatures may be stored as electronic records in the database . The database may be coupled to the analyzer . In some implementation the database may be remote to the analyzer and communicate thereto through a network such as for example the Internet intranet or other network. Alternatively or additionally the system may include a database or memory incorporated into the housing which can perform a similar function. Also past detected signatures may be stored in database for further analysis and or future searching in some instances.

A display device is configured to display information such as one or more best matches determined by the analyzer for the sample . The display device may include any known display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD cathode ray tube CRT plasma display etc.

In addition the system may include a warning device that is configured to provide a warning when certain materials such as toxic materials or chemical agents are detected. This may be instrumental for instance in the case of attack chemical warfare agents so that personnel can begin to take protective actions. The warning device may include an audible alarm or siren flashing or strobe light display screen etc. which can provide audible and or visual warnings. In some instances written instructions may be provided by the display device or a printer for the aid of personnel. If the system is connected to a network e.g. phone Internet intranet etc. it may generate messages to contact first responders or other emergency personnel command and or other persons as desired.

The method may be practiced in the following manner. The wave generator generates and outputs signals to a laser driver which controls one or more lasers. Here as shown there may be an array of five lasers. These lasers which operate at pre selected frequencies are configured to excite energetic residues including at least one vibrational overtone frequency at least one combination band frequency or a combination thereof of materials such as hazardous or explosive materials that may be present on a material s surface.

For example as shown in this figure if the output from laser emitting at wavelength 1 is modulated at some frequency v then a frequency band pass filter for frequency v will only pass signal generated from that laser. The laser may be configured to output IR light and more particularly light in the near infrared IR spectrum in some embodiments. The filtered signal is then measured with a root mean square circuit that emits a direct current DC signal that is proportional to the amount of detected alternating AC signal. Five channels are shown in this figure corresponding to the spectral features of TNT in . However depending on the target material a different number of lasers and signal channels may be necessary for selectivity. The lasers are configured to excite the target compounds which in turn emit sound waves e.g. all of the absorbed energy that results for non radiative processes. The microphone detects the photoacoustic signals.

Alternatively or additionally one or more tunable lasers irradiate the sample and induce changes such as temperature density displacement refractive index or reflectivity in the sample itself or surrounding environment e.g. air or water. These changes are monitored with appropriate detectors. The signals whether originating from a microphone or other detectors are fed into an amplifier connected to a frequency filter. An analog to digital A D converter may be provided to digitize the output signals which are then fed to the analyzer that compares the measured signature pattern to stored patterns of known energetic materials for identification.

Previously Rosencwaig and Gersho solved the one dimensional heat flow equations from a solid sample into a gas. See A. Rosencwaig and A. Gersho Theory of the photoacoustic effect with solids. 47 1 64 1976 herein incorporated by reference. They found that the thermal diffusion length limits the depth within the sample that can contribute to the acoustic signal. Although their model treats the laser heating as a sinusoidal function the expression for the thermal diffusion length is still valid for a pulsed laser and is given by the following equation 

where f is the chopping frequency of the incident laser light is the solid sample density 1.6 g cmfor TNT C is the sample specific heat 2.1 J g K for TNT and k is the sample thermal diffusivity constant 2.15 10J s K cm for TNT according to A. Rubenchik On the Initiation of High Explosives by Laser Radiation 32 4 296 2007 herein incorporated by reference.

The thermal diffusion length depends on the time for heat to escape from the interior of the sample into the surrounding gas. The time delay shown in is a reflection of the heat diffusion from the interior of the sample to the surface. Using the inverse of the time delay e.g. 6.6 ms for the chopping frequency and equation 1 a characteristic thermal diffusion length of 72.8 m is determined. Although the input laser power varied by nearly a factor of ten the time delay between the laser pulse and the maximum acoustic signal only increases by about 10 . This suggests that the spatial gradient of the thermal distribution function determines the rate of heat flow. Because the laser pulsed heating is practically instantaneous the temperature gradient is very high for each laser pulse the energy that is used in this measurement and the delay time changes little. Given that there is no signal saturation due to laser power and that the signal delay does not decrease significantly when the laser pulse energy is increased the thermal diffusivity of the sample drives the signal delay time. For photoacoustic measurements of sample films of known thermal properties the delay time could be used as a measurement for sample depth.

Regarding the laser operating in the near IR spectral region irradiates the target material. In the microphone is the detector and the whole unit is the sensor. The sensor head in comprises all the elements in except for the laser pointers and associated electronics drivers and square wave generator the laser pointers being replaced with a tunable near IR laser. If the laser frequency is resonant with a frequency associated with the materials overtone energetic material and or combination band transitions then the material will absorb the laser energy. There are many pathways for the material to dissipate this energy including fluorescence ionization and photoacoustic. The photoacoustic channel including microphone operates using non radiative processes. If the absorbed energy is converted into heat then it may be transferred to the ambient air. The pressure fluctuation caused by the rapid heating and cooling appears as compression and rarefaction of the air and results in sound waves which can be detected by a microphone for example. In addition to pressure fluctuations one may monitor the materials change in temperature volume index of refraction surface displacement etc. or changes in the material s environment. Different molecules or molecules with the same molecular formula but different molecular structure have unique overtone and or combination transitions fingerprints and thus produce distinct sounds or other observables characteristic of that material. In the case of pressure fluctuations the characteristic sound signals decrease with distance. Thus it would be preferable to have the sensor in close proximity to the object under investigation with suspect material . shows a miniature sensor that can be mounted on a robot for hostile conditions or can be used as a hand held sensor for friendly environments. Note that shows multiple small laser pointers with output radiation at a single frequency to achieve the resonance condition for target materials. Optionally a tunable IR laser could be utilized tunable to many frequencies and thus probe many types of compounds e.g. energetic materials chemical warfare cw agents industrial wastes etc. However generally such lasers are of limited availability in sizes as small as single frequency laser pointers at the present time. However one can set the tunable near IR laser on a table or vehicle which can be located tens of meters from the object under investigation and use a fiber optic to transmit the beam close to the object . The sensor head capturing the sound can be made very compact and light so that an individual or robot not shown can easily maneuver it.

Probing the material s laser induced sound waves may only work for remote detection at close distances. Distances of meters to tens of meters require more sensitive equipment because the laser induced sound decreases with distance. In such cases it would preferable to use a near IR laser for irradiation as described above and the same laser to monitor the material s vibration or surface displacement using a laser type vibrometer or piezoelectric film based sensor near the transmitted laser source and monitor the displacement of the film with an interferometer . It is noted that both show the use of one laser to both excite and probe the material. However optionally one can use an IR tunable laser to irradiate the sample and a second laser with output in the ultraviolet visible or infrared to monitor the surface displacement or vibration of the material in question.

Both of the embodiments shown in may comprise computer control analyzer . The stand off distance may range from a few centimeters to meters.

Laser based sensors offer high sensitivity and species selectivity with real time capabilities for monitoring the vapors of some energetic materials. However the extremely low vapor pressure of many solid energetic materials under ambient conditions impedes these sensors. A preferred embodiment utilizes a novel technique based on laser photoacoustic overtone spectroscopy to detect and differentiate solid 1 3 5 trinitrotoluene TNT 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazacyclohexane RDX and 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexanitro 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazaisowurtzitane CL 20 in real time at ambient conditions. A tunable near infrared laser excites the target compound in the spectral region between 5800 to 6100 cm and a microphone monitors the sound that they generate by non radiative collisional deexcitation processes. The photoacoustic signals result from first overtone and combination absorptions of the energetic material s C H vibrations and the collisional processes enhance the signal at atmospheric pressure. The spectra reveal features that are unique to each measured material and these features can serve as a fingerprint for that material.

The detection and monitoring of energetic materials in real time at ambient conditions is important in many areas including the detection of potential terrorist activity demilitarization and forensics and it presents a technological task of increasing significance. A real time device that is sensitive accurate robust and detects these materials without sample preparation and under ambient conditions would be invaluable in both military and civilian applications. As a result of interest in these areas numerous devices have been developed to reduce the risk to the general population and military personnel. Moore D. Moore. Instrumentation for trace detection of high explosives Rev. Sci. Instrum. 2004. 75 8 2499 2512 provides a critical and comprehensive review on instrumentation for detecting high explosives. Ion mobility spectrometry IMS is the current state of the art for sensing vapors and is commonly in use in airports and other secured areas. IMS has typical detection limits on the order of 1 10 ppb. However its application for detecting solid explosives without sample preparation in real time is limited as are other conventional sensors that use detectors to sense vapors because many energetic materials have a low vapor pressure under ambient conditions see for the structural formulas of selected energetic materials . For example 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazacyclohexane RDX has a vapor pressure of 5 10torr or 7 ppt at ambient conditions three orders of magnitude less than 1 3 5 trinitrotoluene TNT . RDX s vapor pressure is still higher than the vapor pressure of many other relevant energetic materials including 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexanitro 2 4 6 8 10 12 hexaazaisowurtzitane CL 20 . An added complication for gas phase sensors is that vapor molecules of energetic materials tend to readily adsorb to surfaces further reducing molecules available for detection.

Laser based techniques offer both in situ and remote monitoring capabilities with high sensitivity and species selectivity for analyzing many different solid energetic materials in real time. Some of these techniques include laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS laser photofragmentation fragment detection LP FD spectroscopy Raman spectroscopy and Terahertz spectroscopy. LIBS and LP FD offer indirect detection of energetic materials on surfaces whereas Raman spectroscopy and Terahertz spectroscopy directly detect the materials. In LIBS a high powered focused laser beam completely breaks down the complex energetic material into its constituent elements which are then detected by emission spectroscopy in the ultraviolet or visible spectral region. In contrast LP FD breaks down the complex explosive molecule into larger fragments or signature molecular groups such as NOand NO that are detected subsequently by laser induced fluorescence LIF and or resonance enhanced multiphoton ionization REMPI thus indicating the presence of the energetic material. Both LIBS and PF FD detect energetic materials indirectly because they do not identify the target materials. Instead they identify characteristic fragments resulting from the photolysis or decomposition of the energetic materials. As a result the selectivity of these methods is not as high as those that involve direct detection. Also trace quantities of atmospheric NOmay interfere with the measurements.

Raman spectroscopy and Terahertz spectroscopy have proven successful for directly detecting energetic materials in the condensed phase with chemical specificity. Terahertz spectroscopy has the additional advantage that it allows for the detection of concealed explosives because the radiation penetrates visibly opaque materials such as clothing paper and plastics. Raman spectroscopy uses visible or ultraviolet radiation to probe the molecule s vibrational and rotational states from the inelastic scatter of photons whereas Terahertz spectroscopy uses radiation in the range of 0.1 to 10 THz 1 THz 33.33 cm to probe the molecule s collective internal vibrations or intermolecular crystal lattice vibrations known as phonon modes. Although both techniques show great promise for energetic material detection they face certain challenges. Raman spectroscopy suffers from weak signals without ultraviolet resonance or surface enhancement and Terahertz spectroscopy suffers from attenuation by water vapor in the atmosphere. Also Terahertz spectroscopy suffers from the relative weakness of the spectral features in reflection and the limited frequency range available for detecting concealed explosives because of absorption by clothing or other materials. However imaging at frequencies less than 1 THz shows more promise for security applications although not offering the same specificity as the higher frequencies. Laser photoacoustic spectroscopy provides an alternate means of directly detecting solid energetic materials. In A. Bell. Upon the production of sound by radiant energy . Paper read at National Academy of Sciences Apr. 21 1881 Washington D.C. Gibson Brothers Printers 1881 Bell reported the photoacoustic effect when he found that materials emit sound when exposed to a rapidly interrupted sunlight beam. The sample converts the absorbed laser radiation into heat by non radiative de excitation processes. Ambient air absorbs this heat and the rapid sample heating and cooling causes a pressure fluctuation. The compression and rarefaction of the air results in a photoacoustic wave or sound that can be monitored with a microphone or laser vibrometer. Unlike most optically based detection methods photoacoustic methods are highly insensitive to light scattering by substrates and are only sensitive to actual absorption of optical radiation.

The advent of lasers spawned a new era in photoacoustic spectroscopy because their output radiation is spatially and temporally coherent high in energy and spectrally tunable. Despite the copious number of papers published on the photoacoustic detection of materials only a few papers center on the laser photoacoustic spectroscopy of solid energetic materials by monitoring their sound emissions. Spectral fingerprints of energetic materials are ubiquitous throughout the infrared IR spectral region. These fingerprints result from a molecule s stretching and bending modes and arise from fundamental vibrational absorptions absorption of light from a molecule s ground vibrational state to the first excited vibrational state v 0 to v 1 transitions . The resulting features are sharp and well resolved compared to those that result from a molecule s electronic absorptions in the ultraviolet or visible spectral region.

Energetic materials possess spectral fingerprints in the 3 to 4 lm spectral region in addition to those in the region from 9.6 to 10.6 m. These fingerprints arise from the energetic material s fundamental C H vibrations. However bright laser sources are not widely available in this region. Interband cascade lasers are promising light sources in this region but they have not reached the same maturity as COlasers or quantum cascade lasers 5 12 m . Bright laser sources are available however in the spectral region 1.5 to 2.0 m. In this region the radiation energy is resonant with the energetic material s first overtone CH stretching transitions v 0 to v 2. Although the absorption cross sections of the overtones are typically an order of magnitude less than the fundamental absorption there are several advantages of using the overtone absorption bands of energetic materials. First the availability of laser sources with very high output in this spectral region more than compensates for the relatively weaker overtone absorptions compared to the fundamental absorptions. Second this region does not suffer from the interference from water vapor as much as other IR regions. This attribute is particularly important for remote sensing of energetic materials by laser photoacoustic spectroscopy by monitoring their emitted sound waves or changes in their temperature reflectivity or displacement. Third some molecules may exhibit spectral features due to combination bands near the overtone bands thus increasing the spectral selectivity of the laser based detection technique. Lastly this spectral region is eye safe because it offers the highest protection to the laser operator or bystander compared to other laser spectral regions. Laser wavelengths shorter than this region cause damage to the eye s retina whereas longer wavelengths cause more damage to the cornea.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a novel technique based on photoacoustic overtone spectroscopy to detect for example RDX TNT and CL 20 in the condensed phase in real time under ambient conditions. A laser excites the target compounds in the 1.6 to 1.8 m spectral region 6250 5555 cm and a microphone detects the subsequent sound resulting from non radiative processes. The spectral fingerprints of energetic materials originate from the first overtone absorption of the various C H stretching modes in the energetic materials. These features are different within both the sample molecule and different molecules. Thus each molecule has its unique fingerprint that allows its identification.

As shown in both pure and munitions grade TNT spectra show the same features at 5811 5865 and 5956 cmand the shoulders at 6010 and 6095 cm. There is a small shift in the strongest feature from 6051 to 6063 cmand a reduction in intensity for the 5880 cmpeak when going from pure TNT to the munitions grade TNT. For the TNT adsorbed onto silica there are two strong features centered at 6039 and 5860 cm. Most notably there is the absence of the peak at 5956 cm which is present in the munitions grade and pure TNT. The spectrum of benzoic acid is distinguishable from TNT although there is a similar dominant feature that is red shifted to 6016 cm with no additional distinct features in the spectrum. The simulations of overtone spectra using single molecules an 8 molecule cluster and 64 molecule clusters eight unit crystal cells have elucidated three key findings on the effect of intermolecular interactions on the overtone spectrum. First the simulations showed that the crystal structure in the classical layer of the model was critical. Second electron correlation must be accounted for to correctly capture third order force constants for the C H stretches. Finally intermolecular forces must be accounted for by correct assignment of partial electric charge in both the quantum and classical layers of the model. The results of the single 8 and 64 molecule cluster models illustrate how sensitive the simulated overtone spectra are to molecular placement. Single molecule models that do not include intermolecular interactions do not account for several features.

When the spectra produced from single molecule models in are compared with the TNT data in it can be seen that the single molecule models for TNT do not account for the peak at 5956 cmor the shoulders around the main aryl C H stretch peaks at 6104 or 6017 cm. Although the spectra from the single molecule models have the same general shape as the laser photoacoustic overtone data and in some cases come within 20 cm of the measured aryl C H stretches there also is poor agreement for the methyl C H stretching frequencies and intensities. The absence of several features in the predicted spectra shown in the predicted intensities of all three levels of theory in can be explained by degeneracy in the highly symmetric single molecule models. Application of anharmonic corrections to the normal mode frequencies did not reproduce the additional features that appear in the experimental data. For a further investigation of this influence of the two crystal polymorphs of TNT see Experimental and Theorectical Investigation of the First Overtone Spectrum of 1 3 5 Trinitrotoluene by J. B. Cabalo and R. Sausa The Journal of Physical Chemistry Vol. 115 pages 9139 9150 2011 hereby incorporated by reference.

To investigate the influence of the two crystal polymorphs of TNT as identified by X ray crystallography a single molecule model of each polymorph denoted as A and B was optimized and the HCAO analysis was applied. The nitro functional group dihedral angles of each respective model was set to match those measured with X ray crystallography. The results are shown in where the predicted overtone spectra are insensitive to the intramolecular geometry. The intramolecular O H separations are comparable to the intermolecular O H separations for both simulation and the X ray measurements. The insensitivity to the positions of the intramolecular nitro functional groups makes sense because the electrostatic interactions were directed almost orthogonally to the axes of the C H stretches whereas the O H intermolecular interactions were directed more closely along the C H stretching axis thus applying a greater perturbation. This result reinforces the fact that a multimolecular model was indeed necessary to interpret the experimental result.

The results of the predicted overtone spectra from the eight member cluster model are shown in . Although use of this simple cluster model eliminated the issue with degeneracy remaining differences between the predicted spectra and experiment show that the model inadequately captures the intermolecular interactions. The reason is that there was no position in the model that was completely caged by surrounding molecules as occurs in the bulk crystal. It became clear that much improved results are obtained from the larger models that better simulate the TNT crystal. However the eight molecule model yielded a key result. The results in from the eight TNT molecule model show that the handling of electron correlation in the two layer QM MM models is critical. is a comparison of predicted overtone spectra from the MP2 6 31 G d p and B3LYP 6 31 G d p levels of theory. When B3LYP 6 31 G d p was used in the hybrid QM MM eight molecule cluster model it predicted a large drop in overtone intensity compared with the single molecule spectrum predicted in such that the DFT predicted spectrum was attenuated by a factor of 33. In contrast the absorption intensities of the MP2 6 31 G d p predicted spectrum in is in reasonable agreement with the predicted intensities of all three levels of theory in . The fact that the MP2 predicted spectra are not attenuated in the hybrid QM MM models is quantitatively shown in Table 3 of the aforementioned J. B. Cabalo and R. Sausa article. The oscillator strengths predicted from the single unit cell model and the MP2 method agree with the single molecule oscillator strengths to within an order of magnitude. Comparison of the HCAO predicted Morse parameters is described in the J. B. Cabalo and R. Sausa article see Table 2 provide additional insight into the reason the MP2 method gave better results.

These aforementioned systems provide sensitive accurate and robust detection of suspect materials substantially in real time under ambient conditions. They may be invaluable for various applications including detecting potential terrorist activity demilitarization and improvised explosive device IEC countermeasures to name a few.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

