---

title: System and method for efficient state synchronization among neighboring network devices
abstract: According to one embodiment of the invention, a non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, causes performance of operations including detecting, by a first network device, a second network device within a radio frequency (RF) communication range from the first network device. Responsive at least to detecting the second network device, the first network device subscribes to a multicast group associated with the second network device. Thereafter, the first network device receives multicast data associated with the multicast group associated with the second network device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351130&OS=09351130&RS=09351130
owner: ARUBA NETWORKS, INC.
number: 09351130
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the field of network communications and in particular a system and method for distributing state information among neighboring wireless devices for state synchronization.

Over the past decade there has been a substantial increase in the use and deployment of wireless devices from dual mode smartphones to tablet devices. With wireless becoming the de facto medium for network connectivity among users it has become increasingly important for certain wireless devices such as access points APs for example to share state information and remain in synchronous operation with each other. This allows users to maintain seamless connectivity with a particular distributed wireless network.

Currently distributed wireless networks are generally implemented with a centralized controller that manages the sharing and storage of state information among the networked APs. However controller based wireless networks possess certain challenges 1 single point of failure and 2 scalability. In fact as more and more wireless devices are purchased and used by consumers in some cases where multiple wireless devices e.g. phone laptop tablet etc. are used simultaneously by a single user network scalability has become a challenge. To address increased capacity requirements for the network more expensive and powerful controllers are typically needed thereby increasing overall network costs.

Furthermore if shared state information is only relevant for localized decisions e.g. Adaptive Radio Management ARM channel allocation it may not be necessary to share this state information with the centralized controller. Thus by uploading such information to the controller unnecessarily network bandwidth is being wasted. However requiring the APs to discern what shared state information is or is not relevant for global decisions would greatly increase the operational complexity of the APs.

In lieu of controller based wireless networks controller less wireless networks may be deployed. With such deployment however it is imperative to solve the complex challenges of sharing state information within a distributed network to optimize network functionality.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. The context of the disclosure is directed to state synchronization among surrounding network devices e.g. access points APs through any one of a plurality of distribution schemes including wireless over the air distribution multicast distribution and or wired distribution. Whichever distribution scheme is utilized for state synchronization the network devices now are configured to operate collectively so that the functionality of the wireless network may be optimized through adjustments to its operation and or capabilities hereinafter generally referred to as functionality of one or more network devices. One skilled in the relevant art may recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without certain details such as the inclusion or exclusion of one or more operations various logic or the like.

Herein certain terminology is used to describe features within embodiments of the invention. For example the term network device generally refers to electronic equipment configured to communicate over a network and or process information related to such communications. Different categories of network devices may include but are not limited to 1 a client device being any consumer electronics with wireless network connectivity e.g. tablet laptop desktop netbook television set top box video gaming control mobile handset with cellular and or wireless connectivity such as a smartphone personal digital assistant PDA etc. 2 an access point 3 a data control device e.g. network switch controller etc. 4 a multicast router or the like. The network device may be adapted with circuitry to support wireless connectivity with other network devices being part of a wireless network.

It is contemplated that a network device includes hardware logic such as one or more of the following i processing circuitry ii one or more communication interfaces such as a radio e.g. component that handles the wireless data transmission reception and or a physical connector to support wired connectivity and or iii a data store in the form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive etc. or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive portable hard disk drive or the like.

Herein the term logic is generally defined as hardware and or software. For example as hardware logic may include processing circuitry e.g. a microcontroller any type of processor a programmable gate array an application specific integrated circuit etc. semiconductor memory combinatorial logic or the like. As software logic may be one or more software modules such as executable code in the form of an executable application an application programming interface API a subroutine a function a procedure an object method implementation an applet a servlet a routine a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library or one or more instructions. These software modules may be stored in any type of a suitable non transitory storage medium described above or transitory computer readable transmission media e.g. electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals such as carrier waves infrared signals digital signals .

The term interconnect is broadly defined as a logical or physical communication path such as for instance electrical wire optical fiber cable bus trace or a wireless channel using infrared radio frequency RF or any other wireless signaling mechanism. The term message constitutes a grouping of data which may be placed in the form of a packet a stream e.g. a sequence of packets a frame an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cell or any other series of bits having a prescribed format.

Lastly the terms or and and or as used herein are to be interpreted as an inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C or A B and or C mean any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C. An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

Certain details are set forth below in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure albeit the invention may be practiced through many embodiments other that those illustrated. Well known logic and operations may not be set forth in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring this description. Moreover the illustrated embodiments of the disclosure and the description associated therewith should be considered as examples of the principles of the invention and not intended to limit the disclosure to those specific embodiments. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to a general block diagram of a first network device e.g. access point AP and one or more other network device e.g. neighboring access point s communicatively coupled together via a network is shown. AP and neighboring AP s M 1 M 4 as shown exchange state information in accordance with a synchronized distribution scheme where the state information from any one of these APs and may cause another one of the APs to reduce its functionality. In the alternative or in combination with other uses the state information may be used to control access by one or more client devices not shown to the network .

According to this embodiment of the disclosure network is a wireless local area network WLAN operating in compliance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 Standard entitled Part 11 Wireless LAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical Layer PHY specifications Mar. 29 2012. However it is contemplated that network may support any of a number of other wireless communication schemes including HiperLan 1 HiperLan 2 IEEE 802.16 Standard or the like.

As illustrated the infrastructure of network is a collection of network devices that is adapted to support communications between client devices and resources on the network . As illustrated AP is configured to provide and maintain network connectivity over a first wireless channel referred to as its home channel with one or more client devices that are associated to and authenticated by AP . However at different prescribed times AP is adapted to scan one or more other wireless channels referred to as its foreign channels to acquire state information from neighboring APs . During a scan session AP may scan one of its foreign channels where this channel constitutes a home channel for one or more of the neighboring APs .

More specifically according to one embodiment of the disclosure AP is configured to scan at a first prescribed time interval for wireless communications over a second wireless channel. One purpose for such scanning is to obtain state information from other wireless network devices such as neighboring APs and for example which are operating on the second wireless channel being their home channel and are residing within a first one hop radio frequency RF neighborhood . The first RF neighborhood is defined by a first radio frequency RF communication range from AP . Of course state information may be obtained for network devices operating outside the first RF neighborhood such as a remote AP within an N hop RF neighborhood N 2 by one of the neighboring APs e.g. neighboring AP obtaining state information from the remote AP and subsequently distributing such state information to AP .

As further shown in AP is configured to scan at a second prescribed time interval different than the first prescribed time interval for wireless communications over a third wireless channel within a second RF neighborhood . The third wireless channel is different and normally non interfering from the second wireless channel. Defined by a second RF communication range from AP the second RF neighborhood comprises neighboring AP and .

It is contemplated that the distribution of state information between AP and neighboring APs is accomplished during different scan sessions. These scan sessions may be performed by active scanning a particular wireless foreign channel where AP transmits a message e.g. PROBE REQUEST message as a broadcast or unicast transmission and subsequently monitors that particular foreign channel for one or more messages in response to the transmitted message e.g. PROBE RESPONSE messages . Alternatively or in combination with active scanning passive scanning of the particular foreign channel may be conducted where AP detects a message transmitted over the particular wireless channel e.g. a BEACON message and stores information associated with that message.

Referring now to an exemplary block diagram of logic implemented within a network device e.g. AP of that exchanges in synchronization state information with neighboring network devices e.g. neighboring APs is shown. Herein AP comprises one or more hardware processors that are coupled to communication interface logic via a first interconnect . According to one embodiment of the disclosure communication interface logic may be implemented as a physical interface such as an IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interface and or one or more radio units e.g. hardware transceiver transmitter receiver etc. for supporting wireless communications with other wireless network devices.

Processor is further coupled to a data store via a second interconnect . According to one embodiment of the disclosure data store is persistent memory that is adapted to store wireless distribution logic multicast distribution logic and wired distribution logic . As shown logic and or comprise software modules executed by processor s to control distribution of state information between AP and other neighboring APs illustrated in . However it is contemplated that one or more of logic and or may be implemented as either circuitry within processor s represented by dashed lines or other circuitry within AP not shown .

In general wireless distribution logic is configured to conduct active scanning of predetermined wireless channels to exchange state information with neighboring APs where such scanning may be conducted through a series of messages such as an exchange of data messages or management messages such as PROBE REQUEST and PROBE RESPONSE messages.

More specifically according to one embodiment of the disclosure AP has access to network resources to obtain information directed to what wireless channels are identified as home channels for the neighboring APs and are different from its home channel. During every scan session on a selected foreign channel home channel for the neighboring AP AP sends a PROBE REQUEST message that includes an information element containing the state information for AP . Hence the neighboring APs e.g. neighboring APs and operating on this channel receive the state information.

In response to receiving the PROBE REQUEST message neighboring AP sends a PROBE RESPONSE message which contains state information for that neighboring AP . The PROBE RESPONSE message is received by AP . Similarly neighboring AP also sends a PROBE RESPONSE message containing state information for neighboring AP in response to receiving the PROBE REQUEST message. The PROBE RESPONSE message is received by AP . Hence during one scan interval AP and its neighboring APs and listening on that particular wireless channel will share their state information with each other.

Furthermore as an optional feature the wireless distribution logic may be adapted to repeat an attempt to scan the same foreign channel when a scan reject occurred due to one or more state conditions associated with AP e.g. AP processing voice audio or another type of data requiring higher Quality of Service QoS levels power save AP load limit at threshold etc. . The reason is that since the scan reject was not based on conditions of the foreign channel the changing of the foreign channel will not assist in achieving a successful scan. By repeating the attempt to scan that particular foreign channel after a predetermined time period has elapsed or once the state condition has been alleviated a more deterministic real time guarantee on the scanning pattern of AP is achieved. As a result all wireless channels are scanned uniformly.

Multicast distribution logic is configured to enable AP to subscribe to a multicast group associated with one or more neighboring APs . . . and or based on information associated with neighboring APs . . . and or . For instance the multicast Internet Protocol IP addresses for AP as well as neighboring APs are based on their corresponding Media Access Control MAC addresses.

More specifically according to one embodiment of the disclosure every AP is assigned its multicast Internet Protocol IP address based on its MAC address. The MAC address of every AP is advertised in an information element Vendor Specific IE within every p number of BEACON messages p 1 . Hence AP receiving BEACON messages from neighboring APs is able to derive the multicast IP of each neighboring AP from the recovered MAC address based on operations conducted by multicast IP generation logic . As a result AP is able to subscribe to the multicast groups hosted by its neighboring APs . This allows AP as well as the neighboring APs to publish their state information via these multicast groups. The publication of the state information by each of the APs and may be scheduled to occur at assigned time periods during each scan session after every other scan session or other prescribed periodicity in response to receipt of a particular message or the like.

According to another state information distribution scheme as stated above the MAC address of every AP is advertised in an information element within a BEACON message every p number of BEACON messages. All the APs in the same broadcast domain maintain a list of MAC addresses of neighboring APs. In the event that AP needs to publish its own state information wired distribution logic of AP is configured to control the broadcast of a message in its subnet where the message includes state information for AP and identifies AP in a source address of the message. In response to receiving the broadcasted message from AP each of the neighboring APs will process the message if the source address of the message is associated with a RF neighbor e.g. AP .

If the neighboring APs do not belong to the same subnet then a broadcast transmission will be unsuccessful. Instead unicast messages will need to be sent from AP to neighboring APs .

Referring to an exemplary block diagram illustrating a wireless over the air distribution scheme conducted by a network device e.g. AP of for state synchronization using an exchange of messages is shown. According to one embodiment of the disclosure as described below the exchanged messages may be PROBE REQUEST and PROBE RESPONSE frames which have a lesser effect on network overhead. However it is contemplated that the exchanged messages may be a different message types such as data frames for example.

Herein AP has access to resources including the MAC addresses of neighboring APs and their home channels. Such information may be stored remotely from AP e.g. within a database maintained by another network device or stored locally within data store . During a scan session AP broadcasts a PROBE REQUEST message which includes state information for AP over a second wireless channel. While the second wireless channel constitutes a first foreign channel for AP the second wireless channel operates as the home channel for neighboring APs and .

Referring now to an exemplary data structure diagram of the PROBE REQUEST frame of is shown. Herein PROBE REQUEST frame comprises a header a frame body and a frame check sequence FCS . Herein in compliance with the IEEE 802.11 Standard the header comprises a frame control field which includes a type field that identifies the frame as a management frame type 00 and a subtype field that identifies this management frame as a Probe Request subtype 0100 .

The frame body includes a vendor specific information element that contains state information associated with AP . As shown in the vendor specific information element comprises multiple subfields in which the state information is stored within a vendor specific content field . Such state information may include but is not limited or restricted to i one or more Opportunistic Key Caching OKC information stored by AP ii load capacity of AP e.g. number of associated client devices maximum capacity level processor utilization etc. iii operating bandwidth to convey primary secondary wireless channels used by AP or the like. Currently the vendor specific information element is not used for the transfer of any state information by its transmitting network device.

Referring back to neighboring APs and operating on the second wireless channel receive the PROBE REQUEST message and thereafter retrieve the state information for AP . Such information is stored within corresponding data stores and .

In response to the PROBE REQUEST message both neighboring APs and return PROBE RESPONSE message containing their own state information. As shown in PROBE RESPONSE frame comprises a header a frame body and a frame check sequence FCS .

Herein in compliance with the IEEE 802.11 Standard and having a similar frame format as the PROBE REQUEST frame the header of PROBE RESPONSE frame includes a frame control field that includes a type field that identifies the frame as a management frame type 00 and a subtype field that identifies this management frame as a Probe Response subtype 0101 . Also the frame body includes a vendor specific information element that contains state information associated with neighboring AP .

The PROBE RESPONSE frame has an identical format as PROBE RESPONSE frame except the vendor specific information element includes state information associated with neighboring AP .

Referring now to an exemplary flowchart illustrating a scan session conducted by a network device e.g. AP for state synchronization is shown. Initially the AP transitions from its home channel to a foreign channel to commence a scan session block . This may occur after the AP has remained on the home channel for a first predetermined time interval and now scans a particular foreign channel for a second predetermined time interval that is substantially less than the first predetermined time interval. For example the first predetermined time interval may be multiple seconds in duration e.g. 10 seconds while the second predetermined time interval may be less than one hundred milliseconds ms such as 70 ms for example.

In the event of a scan reject namely the scan session on the foreign channel is not performed as scheduled a determination is made as to whether the scan reject is due to the state of the AP blocks and . For instance if the client devices associated to the AP are in power save state or is supporting an active transmission of high priority data e.g. video and or audio the scan session is not conducted as the QoS for the ongoing services provided by the AP would be greatly diminished. If the scan reject is not the Rsuccessive scan reject for the particular foreign channel where R may be set to a desired tolerance R 2 3 etc. the next scan session will be repeated for the same foreign channel blocks and . Otherwise a new foreign channel is selected to be scanned during the next scan session block .

If there is no scan reject the AP actively scans the foreign channel through a message exchange and receives the state information for those neighboring APs participating in the message exchange blocks and . Thereafter for the next scan process a different foreign channel if any is selected and the scan process repeats as described above.

Referring to an exemplary state diagram illustrating the scanning states entered into by a network device e.g. AP during state synchronization is shown. As shown the AP is configured to enter into a first state H state where the AP provides one or more client devices associated to the AP access to network resources over a home channel CH1 . The AP is further configured to enter into a second state S1 state and or a third state S2 state . In S1 state the AP conduct a scan session over a first foreign channel CH2 while in the S2 state the AP conduct a scan session over a second foreign channel CH3 .

Herein the AP operates by monitoring and responding to wireless communications directed to the AP on the home channel CH1 as shown by state operation . In the event that there are no state conditions to preclude the AP from conducting a scan session the AP transitions from H state to S1 state which is represented by transition . During S1 state the AP sends a PROBE REQUEST frame receives one or more PROBE RESPONSE frames from neighboring APs with their home channel being the AP s first foreign channel CH2 and stores the state information provided by the neighboring APs state operation . After the scan session has ceased the AP transitions back to the H state as shown by transition .

In the event that there is a state condition that precludes the AP from conducting a scan session such as the AP supporting an active video download by a client device the AP remains in H state . However during the next scan session and once no further state conditions are present the AP transitions to the S1 state and conducts a scan session as described above. The successive attempt to scan the first foreign wireless channel for at least R scan rejects is conducted to guarantee an exchange of state information between the AP and its neighboring APs operating on this channel CH2 .

Now upon return to its home channel the AP operates by monitoring and responding to wireless communications directed to the AP on the home wireless channel as shown by state operation . In the event that there are no state conditions to preclude the AP from conducting a scan session the AP transitions to S2 state as represented by transition . During the S2 state the AP sends a PROBE REQUEST message receives one or more PROBE RESPONSE messages from neighboring APs where their home channel is the second foreign channel CH3 for the AP and stores the state information provided by these neighboring APs state operation . After the scan session has ceased the AP transitions back to the H state as illustrated by transition and the process continues.

Herein the maximum expected time of state information advertisement computed for an illustrative wireless network having C channels with H home channels for neighboring APs a scan interval of duration P and a 99 guaranteed delivery probability P s is set forth below 

Referring to an exemplary sequence diagram illustrating the multicast distribution scheme conducted by a network device e.g. AP of for state synchronization is shown. Herein each AP within the network e.g. AP neighboring AP neighboring AP etc. is assigned a multicast Internet Protocol IP address which is based on information uniquely associated with that corresponding AP. As an example a multicast IP address for a particular AP may be produced from at least a portion of the MAC address for that particular AP. More details of various MAC to Multicast IP conversion schemes are described below.

As illustrated in all APs within the network such as neighboring AP and as shown are configured to periodically broadcast messages and . In accordance with one embodiment of the disclosure these broadcast messages and may be BEACON frames however these BEACON frames and are configured to advertise information associated with a corresponding neighboring AP and respectively. This information is placed within prescribed information elements of BEACON frames and .

As an example information within BEACON frame may be a multicast group address hosted by neighboring AP while information within BEACON frame may be a multicast group address hosted by neighboring AP . As another example the information within each BEACON frame or may be unique to a corresponding neighboring AP and such as a MAC address or portion thereof . The corresponding MAC addresses are placed within prescribed information elements of BEACON frames and . The MAC addresses are subsequently used to compute the multicast IP addresses for neighboring AP and .

More specifically as illustrated in an exemplary data structure diagram of BEACON frame in accordance with the IEEE 802.11 Standard is shown. Herein the BEACON frame comprises a header a frame body and a frame check sequence FCS . Herein the header includes a frame control field that includes a type field and subtype field that are used to identify the frame as a management frame type 00 and a Beacon subtype 1000 .

The frame body includes a vendor specific information element within which the MAC address associated with the neighboring AP is loaded. Similar to above the vendor specific information element comprises multiple subfields in which the MAC address is stored within a vendor specific content field.

Referring back to it is contemplated that the periodicity of such advertisement may be conducted every p number of BEACON frames p 1 . For instance every BEACON frame e.g. p 1 from neighboring AP may be configured to include the unique information e.g. MAC address for neighboring AP or alternatively every 10BEACON frame p 10 from neighboring AP may be configured to include the MAC address . Similarly every pBEACON frame from neighboring AP includes unique information e.g. MAC address for neighboring AP .

Upon receiving BEACON frames and if applicable AP is now able to derive the multicast IP addresses for neighboring AP and from the recovered MAC addresses and respectively. The multicast IP generation logic within AP of is configured to perform the MAC to Multicast IP conversion.

As shown in an exemplary block diagram illustrating the general operations conducted by the multicast IP generation logic is shown where computing of the multicast address for the multicast group is based at least on a portion of information associated with a neighboring network device. Herein the multicast IP generation logic is adapted to convert input information uniquely associated with a particular neighboring AP into a corresponding multicast IP address for that neighboring AP. The unique information may include some or all of the MAC address of the particular neighboring AP although other information unique to the neighboring AP may be used. Also such conversion may be accomplished through one or more prescribed address translations including translations in which at least portion of the MAC address is used as part of the multicast IP address without modification at least a portion of the MAC is modified in accordance with a prescribed translation e.g. undergoes one way hash operation logical modification with up to bitwise granularity etc. and used as part of the multicast IP address or the like.

As an illustrative embodiment as shown in a particular conversion scheme for generating the multicast IP address from the MAC address is shown. Herein a portion of the MAC address such as one or more octets of MAC address may be provided without modification as octets of IP multicast address . According to one embodiment of the disclosure the last three octets of MAC address may be provided as corresponding octets of IP multicast address . A first octet of the IP multicast address is assigned a prescribed value e.g. 239 or 11101111 binary .

Of course it is contemplated that other conversion schemes may be deployed in lieu of the illustrative embodiment set forth in . For instance the particular conversion scheme for generating the multicast IP address from the MAC address may be conducted where the octets are uniquely translated into different values that are placed into octets of IP multicast address . For instance octets may undergo logical functions e.g. AND NAND OR XOR NOR XNOR etc. and or bitwise repositioning to produce the values for octets of IP multicast address . Again the first octet of the IP multicast address could be assigned the prescribed value.

Yet another conversion scheme for generating the multicast IP address from the MAC address may be conducted by converting the Organizationally Unique Identifier OUI of the MAC address. For example the OUI may undergo a logical translation to produce the values for octets .

Yet another conversion scheme for generating the multicast IP address from the MAC address may be conducted by a one way hash function where some or all of MAC address is uniquely converted into octets of IP multicast address .

Referring back to as a result of the MAC to Multicast IP conversion AP is able to subscribe to multicast groups associated with all its neighboring APs e.g. neighboring APs and . Subscription may be responsive at least to detecting wireless signals from one or more of the neighboring APs and having a signal strength above a particular threshold determining that the one or more of the neighboring APs and is an access point etc. Identical operations may be performed by neighboring AP to obtain state information from APs and and neighboring AP to obtain state information from APs and . Hence AP and neighboring APs and may publish their state information when necessary via these multicast groups. A subscription to a multicast group may be conducted in order to obtain state information associated with network device members and in certain cases AP may simply want to copy the multicast subscriptions its neighboring APs are receiving.

Referring now to an exemplary block diagram illustrating the network device e.g. AP conducting the multicast distribution of state information to synchronizing state information with neighboring APs is shown. Herein during passive scanning of different wireless channels the network device receives one or more messages e.g. BEACON frames from corresponding neighboring network devices not shown . One or more of these messages 1 i M includes information e.g. MAC address that is uniquely associated with a sending neighboring network device.

Subsequent to receiving message 1 i M and accessing the corresponding unique information therefrom such as a MAC address from BEACON frame sent by one of the neighboring APs for example processing logic converts the unique information into the multicast IP address for the neighboring network device that sent message . Thereafter the network device is able to subscribe to a multicast group associated with the neighboring network device that sent the message by sending an Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP JOIN Group Request where the computed multicast IP address operates as the group address of the JOIN Group Request . Thereafter the network device may publish its state information for access by network devices subscribing to the multicast group associated with multicast IP address via multicast message .

These operations may be conducted by network device to acquire membership to all multicast groups associated with the neighboring network devices. Also the neighboring network devices can perform these operations to distribute state information between their neighboring network devices.

Referring to an exemplary diagram illustrating the wired distribution scheme conducted by the network device AP of for state synchronization is shown. Herein similar to the MAC address of every AP is advertised in an information element within a BEACON message every p number of beacons. As illustrated AP transmits beacons to neighboring APs . All the APs in the same broadcast domain maintain a list of MAC addresses of its neighbor APs.

In the event that AP needs to publish its own state information wired distribution logic of AP is configured to control the broadcast of a message in its subnet e.g. subnet where the message includes state information for AP and identifies AP in the source address. In response to receiving the broadcasted message each neighboring AP . . . and or will process the message if the source address of the message is associated with a RF neighbor e.g. AP .

If a neighboring AP does not belong to the subnet and belongs to a different subnet then a broadcast transmission will be unsuccessful for neighboring AP . Instead unicast messages will need to be sent from AP to the neighboring AP .

Referring now to a flowchart describes exemplary operations conducted after receipt of the distributed state information is shown. Herein upon receiving state information from a neighboring network device e.g. neighboring AP the network device e.g. AP is configured to determine if the state information from the neighboring network device s denotes a certain condition that requires the AP to adjust its functionality blocks and . Such conditions are triggered to assist operability of one of the neighboring network devices and thus optimize functionality of the wireless network as a whole. If such a condition exists the AP adapts its functionality and or capability which may be restored based on changes in the overall network environment block .

In general the AP network device may receive the state information for providing one or more services to a client device a currently associated with the AP and b was previously associated with another AP. For instance as an illustrative embodiment based on state information received from one or more of the neighboring APs an AP may reduce the amount of time for authenticating a client device roaming to the AP from one of the neighboring APs. More specifically by receiving OKC information from a neighboring AP with whom the client device is currently associated and if the client now seeks to associate with the AP the AP does not need to conduct a full authentication exchange IEEE 802.1X authentication . Rather the AP may perform a 4 way handshake to establish transient encryption keys.

As another illustrative embodiment the AP namely a first network device may modify its channel access request configuration based on the received state information. For instance based on state information provided by one or more of the neighboring APs the AP may modify its functionality by precluding any further client devices from successfully associating with the AP. Also the AP may identify those client devices where network functionality may be improved by movement of such client devices to another neighboring AP. Such identification may involve i matching capabilities of the AP and neighboring APs learned from shared state information with capabilities of the client devices e.g. matching client devices operating in accordance with IEEE 802.11n with APs supporting this communication standard ii encouraging a distributed association of client devices normally involved with video and or audio data traffic e.g. smartphones or laptops iii detection of increased interference or the like.

Once the client devices are identified for movement the AP may encourage these identified client devices to roam by reducing services provided thereto signaling a particular neighboring AP to advertise better services to the identified client device or even disassociating the identified client device.

As yet another illustrative embodiment based on state information directed to metrics associated with bandwidth or processor utilization that are provided from one or more of the neighboring APs the AP may reduce its operating parameters. For example the AP may narrow the bandwidth of its home channel e.g. reduce channel bandwidth from 40 megahertz MHz to 20 MHz . Such alteration may be conducted by the network device in order to reduce its demand for network bandwidth especially if a neighboring AP is currently handling higher priority data traffic e.g. video and or audio than the AP or the optimal operations of the AP is of lesser importance than the optimal operations of one of the neighboring APs i.e. neighboring AP has a higher priority of operation than the AP .

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

