---

title: Vehicle instrument panel apparatus and control method thereof
abstract: A vehicle instrument panel apparatus includes a communication unit configured to receive a widget or content transmitted from one or more user terminals, an instrument panel page constituted of a plurality of instrument panel containers in which the widget or content is embedded, a converting unit configured to generate data capable of being embedded in the instrument panel containers according to a type of the received widget or content, an execution unit configured to load the instrument panel page to a screen, a sensing data acquiring unit configured to acquire measurement information input through one or more sensors, and an interface unit configured to combine the measurement information acquired by the sensing data acquiring unit with the instrument panel page loaded by the execution unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008863&OS=09008863&RS=09008863
owner: Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
number: 09008863
owner_city: Daejeon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130729
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0005350 filed on Jan. 17 2013 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The following description relates to a vehicle instrument panel apparatus and a control method thereof and more particularly to a vehicle instrument panel apparatus for enabling a widget and application content to be transferred and shared between a mobile terminal and a vehicle instrument panel and a control method thereof.

In recent vehicle development trends an interest in and importance on an external design and an infotainment system of a vehicle have increased in addition to the most essential mobility and high quality riding comfort of the vehicle. The infotainment system and its component functions have emerged as an obvious identity between vehicle brands.

An owner of a vehicle desires to use the vehicle for commuting on weekdays and for a family outing on weekends. An unmarried vehicle owner wants the vehicle which provides a high performance function or good moods. Thus the desire of the vehicle owner wanting to own one or more other vehicles is satisfied to a certain extent with tuning of an external appearance. The vehicle owner desires to have a vehicle differentiated from the same model of vehicles. However it is difficult to make a change in the interior of the vehicle through the tuning of the external appearance of the vehicle.

However under a situation in which the recent technical development trends related to vehicle information and communication technology ICT convergence are coupling and cooperation of an application with a mobile device a smartphone a pad or an integrated tablet personal computer PC or the like the desires of the vehicle owners who want to decorate their own unique interiors in at least the interior of the vehicle may be satisfied with the implementation of a head up display HUD function using a mobile device application a vehicle cooperation system using a mobile device or a combination with ICT using a mobile device for a function control.

Under a situation in which the vehicle owner using the mobile device wants to use a vehicle with a design or function reflecting his her own preference in combination with ICT convenient from the viewpoint of a driver an infotainment technology concept may be combined with cloud application service technology or the like through convergence of vehicle ICT technology in a so called smart car concept.

In case of the interior of the vehicle a vehicle instrument panel is generally installed at a position in the front of a driver s seat according to a type arrangement and design of instruments designed and set by a vehicle manufacturer in advance. The vehicle instrument panel includes an odometer indicating a running speed of the vehicle and traveling distance information a possible traveling distance and a total traveled distance a speedometer of revolutions per minute RPM of the vehicle engine a fuel gauge an oil pressure gauge a water temperature gauge gear shift information traveling selection mode sports mode comfort mode etc. information operation state indications alarm information of various devices and the like.

A display type of the vehicle instrument panel is classified into an analog type and a digital type. In case of the vehicle instrument panel using only the analogy type using an indicator or an indication lamp there is a disadvantage in that only a fixed design and limited information set by a vehicle manufacturer are given regardless of a driver s preference.

The digital type is a type in which an indication is represented by numerical characters or text. Even in the instrument panel to which only the digital type is applied or a combination of the analog and digital schemes is applied only a design form and information set by a vehicle manufacturer are provided to the driver.

That is there is a problem in that the vehicle instrument panel to which a concept of the existing analog and digital types is applied has a fixed form the driver is easily bored with the limited and fixed design and information when the instrument panel is used for a long time and the driver s preference is not reflected in the instrument panel.

Recently a liquid crystal display part has been added or extended and applied to the vehicle instrument panel so that vehicle state information has been provided in several colors and forms preset by the vehicle manufacturer and some operation screen elements in cooperation with navigation have been represented in the liquid crystal display part.

However because there are provided a design and information input and set by the vehicle manufacturer in advance regardless of the driver s preference it is difficult to satisfy the desire of the driver who wants to decorate at least the interior of the vehicle through a combination of ICT. Also it is difficult to change the overall design of the instrument panel including a partial liquid crystal display widely used in the vehicle without physically changing a vehicle structure. The instrument panel including the partial liquid crystal display provides only limited safe driving information and state information of the vehicle.

This means that it is difficult to simultaneously display all driving related information that should be provided to a specific driver. Thus because this causes the driver to operate a device in motion there is a problem in that the driver s eyes are distracted and the safety and efficiency of the driving are reduced resulting in limitation of compatibility with a mutual interaction technology application between a vehicle and a driver using a mobile device a smartphone a pad or an integrated tablet PC or the like most widely available to drivers in the ICT field.

The following description relates to a method of monitoring and sharing traveling information driving state information or the like of a vehicle for safe driving by enabling a widget and content to be transmitted to other specific vehicle instrument panels or a web browsing enabled screen device at another position rather than a single fixed specific vehicle instrument panel through a mobile device connected to the Internet.

In one general aspect there is provided a vehicle instrument panel apparatus including a communication unit configured to receive a widget or content transmitted from one or more user terminals an instrument panel page constituted of a plurality of instrument panel containers in which the widget or content is embedded a converting unit configured to generate data capable of being embedded in the instrument panel containers according to a type of the received widget or content an execution unit configured to load the instrument panel page to a screen a sensing data acquiring unit configured to acquire measurement information input through one or more sensors and an interface unit configured to combine the measurement information acquired by the sensing data acquiring unit with the instrument panel page loaded by the execution unit.

In another general aspect there is provided a method of controlling a vehicle instrument panel through sharing with a user terminal in a vehicle instrument panel apparatus including receiving a widget or content transmitted from one or more user terminals performing conversion into data capable of being embedded in one or more instrument panel containers constituting an instrument panel page according to a type of the received widget or content loading the instrument panel page to a screen acquiring measurement information of the vehicle input through one or more sensors and combining the acquired measurement information with the instrument panel page loaded to the screen.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. Other features and aspects will be apparent from the following detailed description the drawings and the claims.

The following description is provided to assist the reader in gaining a comprehensive understanding of the methods apparatuses and or systems described herein. Accordingly various changes modifications and equivalents of the methods apparatuses and or systems described herein will be suggested to those of ordinary skill in the art. Also descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for increased clarity and conciseness.

The following description relates to an apparatus and method for configuring a customized instrument panel screen by controlling an instrument widget hereinafter referred to as widget or application content hereinafter referred to as content to be transferred and shared before or when a vehicle is started using a mobile device connected to an Internet network anytime and anywhere.

A driver with red green color blindness capable of acquiring a driver s license will smoothly use an instrument panel screen represented in colors different from red and green. That is it is possible to configure a customized instrument panel using an instrument panel apparatus and a control method thereof as proposed in the present invention without using an original color and form of an instrument panel provided by a vehicle manufacturer.

Referring to the system includes the vehicle instrument panel apparatus one or more user terminals a relay server and a measurement information acquiring apparatus .

The vehicle instrument panel apparatus outputs measurement information according to a state of the vehicle to a display panel. The display panel may be of a type of plasma liquid crystal projection or the like.

In the vehicle instrument panel apparatus instrument panel information design and user interface UI forms are variable according to a selective input of a driver or a related person. For this the vehicle instrument panel apparatus receives and executes a widget or content transmitted from the user terminal held by a specific vehicle driver or a related person.

As an application of the form of a web application operable based on a web the widget includes a gasoline mileage representation application a navigation application a global positioning system GPS layout application a speed torque layout related application a vehicle revolutions per minute RPM application and a safe driving related warning application.

Then the vehicle instrument panel apparatus shares the executed widget or content with the user terminal and controls a vehicle state of a screen of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus various information content configurations design forms or a UI arrangement according to input information from the user terminal .

Measurement information acquired by the measurement information acquiring apparatus serving as a device for acquiring various state information of the vehicle is combined with the widget or content and represented as a resulting value on a screen of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus .

In addition the screen of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus is the form of a hypertext markup language HTML web page operable on a web browser. In addition a unit or overall layout arrangement of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus may be preset before traveling or may be set by the transfer of a widget or content. The content to be used in the vehicle instrument panel apparatus may be held by a user or may include a web page operating on a web. Also the vehicle instrument panel apparatus may be constructed on one specific vehicle or the same constructed vehicle instrument panel may also be constructed in a different place time and vehicle.

The user terminal may join a specific vehicle instrument panel and various content configuration operations on the instrument panel or monitor and share vehicle running information and driving state information and the like for safety while the user transmits or receives a widget or content by accessing the vehicle instrument panel apparatus of a monitor form. That is when a vehicle driver or a related person uses a mobile device a widget or content is transferred to and shared with the vehicle instrument panel apparatus when a mood change in the interior of the vehicle is desired when the driver wants to concentrate on driving even in a cloudy weather or when a change in a design and a UI arrangement represented based on information contents about a traveling environment is desired.

In addition when the user terminal is connected to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus data may be transmitted and received via the relay server . Data may be transmitted and received by directly connecting to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus through a short distance communication scheme such as near field communication NFC instead of a wireless Internet communication network.

The relay server controls connectivity maintenance and management and data transmission and reception necessary for a widget or content transfer between the vehicle instrument panel apparatus and the user terminal or between two or more user terminals . The user terminal is subjected to an authentication process for an access right in the relay server through a wireless network and accesses the vehicle instrument panel apparatus connected to a network.

The relay server is configured to enable a registration correction deletion process to be performed on the right to join a content configuration operation on a specific vehicle instrument panel on a web interface and share a content configuration related widget and application content information.

The relay server performs a function of maintaining and managing information about the user terminal joining an operation of configuring contents of a vehicle instrument panel storing information necessary to transfer a widget or content between the user terminals temporarily or for a predetermined period and transferring the stored information. State information during traveling may be linked to the widget or content stored in the relay server and used as the purpose for monitoring and safe driving. In addition a standardized web protocol is used for data transmission and reception and connection management between the user terminal and the relay server . A standardized web protocol is also used for data transmission and reception and connection management between the relay server and the vehicle instrument panel apparatus .

Also the relay server can be configured such that a represented instrument panel shape instrument panel configuration contents or an arranged widget and content are transferred to another user terminal for the purpose of monitoring and safe driving and the like.

The vehicle instrument panel apparatus includes a communication unit a converting unit a first memory an instrument panel page an execution unit a measurement information processing unit a second memory and an interface unit .

The communication unit receives the widget or content transmitted from one or more user terminals through the relay server . In addition widget or content display state information is transferred to one or more user terminals .

The converting unit converts the widget or content received through the communication unit so that the widget or content is available in an instrument panel page and stores the converted widget or content in the first memory . That is a function of generating data capable of being embedded in an instrument panel container according to a type of widget or content is provided.

The first memory stores a widget or content of a form capable of being embedded in the instrument panel container through the converting unit .

The instrument panel page is constituted of a plurality of instrument panel containers and the instrument panel container is a unit component of the vehicle instrument panel page designed to enable common functions necessary for configuring a personalized vehicle instrument panel apparatus to be performed. While this instrument panel container is generated it is possible to transfer and share a widget or content. Accordingly it is possible to configure a web browser compatible instrument panel apparatus in which various content configurations through an instrument panel and a personalized vehicle instrument panel configuration are possible by controlling various widgets and content to be transferred and shared between the mobile terminals in the vehicle instrument panel apparatus which is represented in only simple analog or digital measuring instrument shapes whose number and forms are fixed in the related art.

In the instrument panel container an application including all of a web application a widget and the like executable on a web browser may be executed.

The execution unit loads the instrument panel page to an overall screen of the instrument panel of a monitor form. That is the widget and content are caused to be executed on the instrument panel screen.

The measurement information processing unit stores vehicle measurement information transmitted from the measurement information acquiring apparatus in the second memory and loads the measurement information to the interface unit .

The second memory temporarily stores the measurement information received from the measurement information acquiring apparatus .

The interface unit causes web application programming interfaces APIs related to a specific widget or content combination transferred from the user terminal to operate in cooperation with each other so that a unit measuring instrument a measuring instrument combination a vehicle state information driving information UI and the like represented on the screen of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus actually operate on the web browser. On the other hand the unit measuring instrument the measuring instrument combination the vehicle state information driving information UI and the like represented on the screen of the vehicle instrument panel apparatus are shared with a user terminal of another user or a related person.

The measurement information acquiring apparatus provides various measurement information generated according to running of the vehicle and information necessary for the traveling and may include sensors. According to the example the measurement information acquiring apparatus includes at least one of a safe driving information acquiring unit an engine oil sensor a coolant temperature sensor a GPS sensor a fuel level sensor a gyro sensor an RPM measurement sensor a door open close sensor and an acceleration sensor .

Referring to the relay server includes an access authentication unit a relay unit a measurement information processing unit and a database DB .

The access authentication unit performs an authentication process for an access right according to an access request from one or more user terminals to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus . The user terminal authenticated by the authentication process may access the vehicle instrument panel apparatus .

The relay unit performs a relay operation so that the user terminal of which the access has been authenticated is connected to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus connected to a network. That is a widget or content held or retrieved by the user terminal is caused to be transferred to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus . In addition the relay unit relays a widget or content transfer between user terminals.

The measurement information processing unit may be configured so that a represented instrument panel shape instrument panel configuration contents or an arranged widget and content are transferred to another user terminal for the purpose of monitoring and safe driving or are stored in the DB .

The DB stores the represented instrument panel shape the instrument panel configuration contents or the arranged widget and content. Because state information during traveling is linked to the stored widget or content the state information during the traveling is used for the purpose of monitoring and safe driving.

Referring to the vehicle instrument panel apparatus receives a widget or content transmitted from one or more user terminals in operation .

In operation the vehicle instrument panel apparatus converts the received widget or content so that the widget or content is available in the instrument panel page . That is a function of generating data capable of being embedded in an instrument panel container according to a type of the widget or content is provided. In the instrument panel container an application including all of a web application a widget and the like executable on a web browser can be executed. The instrument panel page is constituted of a plurality of instrument panel containers and the instrument panel container is a unit component of the vehicle instrument panel page designed to enable common functions necessary for configuring a personalized vehicle instrument panel apparatus to be performed. While this instrument panel container is generated it is possible to transfer and share a widget or content. Accordingly it is possible to configure a web browser compatible instrument panel system in which various content configurations through an instrument panel and a personalized vehicle instrument panel configuration are possible by controlling various widgets and content to be transferred and shared between the user terminals in the vehicle instrument panel apparatus which is represented in only simple analog or digital measuring instrument shapes whose number and forms are fixed in the related art. The converted widget or content may be stored in a memory.

In operation the vehicle instrument panel apparatus loads the instrument panel page to an overall screen of the instrument panel of a monitor form. That is the widget and content are caused to be executed on the instrument panel screen.

In operation the vehicle instrument panel apparatus acquires measurement information from the measurement information acquiring apparatus. The received measurement information is stored temporarily or for a predetermined period.

In operation the vehicle instrument panel apparatus causes the measurement information to be represented on a screen obtained by combining the measurement information with the instrument panel page in which a specific widget or content is embedded.

In operation the vehicle instrument panel apparatus enables a unit measuring instrument a measuring instrument combination a vehicle state information driving information UI and the like to be transferred to and shared with a web browsing enabled user terminal of another user or a related person. That is the vehicle instrument panel apparatus transmits a screen obtained by combining measurement information displayed on the screen with the instrument panel page to the user terminal and adjusts a vehicle state displayed on the screen according to a control signal from the user terminal.

According to the examples of the present invention it is possible to produce a web browser compatible instrument panel system capable of dynamically configuring overall vehicle instrument panel contents and a design or UI arrangement in various forms by performing an operation of transferring and sharing a widget and application content necessary for driving preference individual characteristics and purpose of a vehicle driver or a related person with a mobile device anytime and anywhere when the vehicle instrument panel is configured with various widgets and content.

In addition a unit measuring instrument a measuring instrument combination a vehicle state information driving information UI and the like represented on the screen of the vehicle instrument panel monitor are transferred to and shared with a web browsing enabled mobile device of another user or a related person. In this case because state information during traveling linked to the transferred and shared widget and application content is stored the state information during the traveling may be used for the purpose of monitoring and safe driving.

The present invention can be implemented as computer readable codes in a computer readable record medium. The computer readable record medium includes all types of record media in which computer readable data is stored. Examples of the computer readable record medium include a ROM a RAM a CD ROM a magnetic tape a floppy disk and an optical data storage. Further the record medium may be implemented in the form of a carrier wave such as Internet transmission. In addition the computer readable record medium may be distributed to computer systems over a network in which the computer readable codes may be stored and executed in a distributed manner.

A number of examples have been described above. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described system architecture device or circuit are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components or their equivalents. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

