---

title: Systems and methods for authentication based on user preferences
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to authentication for an electronic device, and more particularly to systems and method for authentication based on user preferences. In one embodiment, an authentication method is disclosed, comprising: receiving, at the electronic device, a first input; determining a password theme based on the first input and user preferences associated with the password theme; displaying the password theme, the displayed password theme comprising a plurality of visual cues; receiving, at the electronic device, a second input comprising a sequence of visual cues selected from the visual cues; verifying the sequence of visual cues; and providing access to the electronic device based on the verification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223959&OS=09223959&RS=09223959
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09223959
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20131220
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Indian Patent Application No. 5052 CHE 2013 filed Nov. 8 2013. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to authentication and more particularly to systems and methods for authentication based on user preferences.

As a huge amount of information is being digitized authentication of such information is extremely important for security purposes. Therefore techniques like password recognition and pattern recognition find a vital place in securing digital information on electronic devices. For more security however it is preferable to have a complex password or pattern which may sometimes be cumbersome for a user. Another technique that may be used for authenticating a user is biometric identification in which an electronic device may identify a fingerprint face or other features of the user s body. Further in another technique known as image based authentication a set of images is displayed by the electronic device every time a user requests authentication. In order to be authenticated the user selects one or more of the displayed images. Once authenticated the user gains access to the electronic device.

In one embodiment an authentication method for an electronic device is disclosed comprising receiving at the electronic device a first input determining a password theme based on the first input and user preferences associated with the password theme displaying the password theme the displayed theme comprising a plurality of visual cues receiving at the electronic device a second input comprising a sequence of visual cues selected from the visual cues verifying the sequence of visual cues and providing access to the electronic device based on the verification.

In one embodiment an electronic device is disclosed comprising one or more processors and a memory storing instructions executable by the one or more processors wherein the instructions configure the one or more processors to receive a first input determine a password theme based on the first input and user preferences associated with the password theme display the password theme the displayed theme comprising a plurality of visual cues receive a second input comprising a sequence of visual cues selected from the visual cues verify the sequence of visual cues and provide access to the electronic device based on the verification.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed the non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors causes the processor to perform operations comprising receiving at an electronic device a first input from a user determining a password theme based on the first input and user preferences associated with the password theme displaying the password theme the displayed theme comprising a plurality of visual cues receiving at the electronic device a second input comprising a sequence of visual cues selected from the plurality of visual cues verifying the sequence of visual cues and providing access to the electronic device based on the verification.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the claimed subject matter.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

A password theme may represent a set of real life activities or items in the form of visual cues such as images symbols and characters. It should be apparent however to a person skilled in the art that a password theme is not limited to representing real life activities or items and may represent any group of visual cues that share one or more common characteristics. Some non limiting examples of password themes may include music movies food items shopping activities routine activities languages festivals etc. In one example password theme music may represent multiple visual cues related to music. In keeping with this example 4 visual cues associated with the password theme music may include images representing 4 different songs. Further it should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the visual cues are not necessarily limited to representing songs and may also represent singers music bands genres of music etc. In addition one or more of the visual cues associated with the password theme may be represented in the form of icons images or symbols.

In some embodiments the visual cues associated with a password theme may further be grouped into various categories that are associated with the password theme. A category may include a group of visual cues associated with the password theme that share one or more common characteristics. In one example the theme music may include fifty four visual cues that are associated with one or another form of music. These fifty four cues may be grouped into six categories representing six different genres of music classical music country music pop music electronic music metal music and blues music. Here a category such as classical music may further include nine visual cues representing nine types of classical music symphony opera choral works chamber music gregorian chant madrigal dhrupad dhamar and khayal. In this example symphony opera dhamar and khayal may be represented by their respective icons indicating their names. Further choral works chamber music Gregorian chant madrigal and dhrupad may be represented by symbols associated with each of them.

In another example a password theme food may be divided into four categories fruits seafood egg products and Italian food. A category such as fruits may further be divided into six visual cues representing types of fruits bananas grapes guavas mangoes apples and strawberries. Here bananas and grapes may be represented by their respective images. Further guavas mangoes apples and strawberries may be represented by logos representing their respective names. Similarly all the other categories may be divided into various types that may be represented by visual cues.

Referring back to step a password theme may be composed in response to an input from a user. In some embodiments composing password themes may include selecting one or more password themes from a set of password themes that are already stored in a memory of the electronic device. The set of password themes including their associated visual cues and categories may have been stored in the electronic device by a manufacturer at the time of manufacture. In one example a list of names of such password themes may be displayed by the electronic device and the user may select a password theme from the list. Once the password theme is selected all the categories associated with the selected password theme and all the visual cues associated with each category may be automatically included in the password theme. Alternately on selecting a password theme the user may manually select some categories instead of selecting all the categories or define new categories by adding visual cues to them as per the requirement of the user. Similarly the user may also manually select some visual cues from a category instead of all the visual cues and include them in the selected password theme.

In some embodiments the composition of the password themes may include creating new password themes. In one example a user may create a password theme by manually inputting a name of the theme. The created password theme may further be configured by defining various categories and associating visual cues with each of the defined categories. The visual cues may be selected from a memory of the electronic device imported from internet or another electronic device or captured from a camera of the electronic device. A user may create multiple password themes in a similar manner.

Once the password themes are configured user preferences may be set and stored in the electronic device in step . In some embodiments a user may define user preferences by associating a password theme with a mood of the user. The mood may represent a state of mind or a behavioral characteristic of the user. For example a happy mood may represent that the user is in a cheerful mood. Similarly an angry mood may represent the user is angry and a depressed mood represents the user is in a sad or depressed mood. The user preferences may be used to create a mapping table such as table 1 that represents a mapping between various moods and the configured password themes 

It should be understood however that the represented moods are discussed only for exemplary purposes and are not limiting examples. Various password themes may be mapped to other moods such as irritated afraid and relaxed. It should further be apparent that more one password theme may also be associated to more than one mood. In an embodiment where a password theme is associated with more than one mood a different set of visual cues associated with the password theme may be associated with each mood. For example if a password theme movies is associated with both angry and depressed moods a first set of visual cues representing action movies may be associated with the angry mood and a second set of visual cues representing comedy movies may be associated with the depressed mood.

On mapping the password themes to their associated moods a password associated with each password theme may be generated in step . A password associated with a password theme may include one or more visual cues that are included in that password theme. In some embodiments the electronic device may randomly generate a password by selecting a combination of visual cues and notifying the user. In some embodiments however the user may manually select a combination of visual cues comprising for example some of the user s favorite visual cues in a particular sequence to form a password. This password may be set as the default password for the password theme by associating it with the password theme. In one example a user may select four visual cues associated with the theme food in a sequential order and set this sequence of visual cues as a password for the password theme food. Here the password may include visual cues bananas omelet fried fish and pasta in the mentioned sequence. Once the electronic device receives the selection of these visual cues from the user the sequence of visual cues is stored as the default password for the password theme food in the memory of the electronic device. Passwords for other password themes may also be generated in a similar manner either automatically by the electronic device or randomly by the user.

Once the password associated with a password theme is generated the password may be stored in the memory of the electronic device for future use in step .

In one example a user may swipe horizontally in the right direction in an attempt to unlock the electronic device. In another example a user may touch three points on the touch screen in a sequence in order to unlock the electronic device. In yet another example a user may simply touch a highlighted point on the screen to attempt to unlock the electronic device.

In step a processor of the electronic device may determine a password theme based on the first input and user preferences associated with the password theme.

Once the first input is received the processor of the electronic device may determine a mood of the user based on the first input. For example the processor may determine that the mood of the user is happy based on the first input. Similarly the processor in certain other cases may determine that the mood of the user is sad or depressed based on the first input. In some embodiments the mood of the user may be determined based on one or more touch sensitive parameters associated with the first input. These touch sensitive parameters may include angle of stroke associated with the first input. For example the processor may determine that the angle of a user s finger or a stylus during a swipe input is 60 with the touch screen indicating that the user s finger was tilted while swiping. The touch sensitive parameters may further include duration of contact of a stroke with the touch screen. For example the processor may determine that a user s finger or a stylus contacts the touch screen for 560 milliseconds in case of a swipe input. The parameters may further include pressure applied on the touch screen by the stroke. For example the pressure applied on the touch screen at single point may be determined in case of a single touch input while in case of a multi touch input the pressure applied at all points of contact may be determined. Similarly in case of a swipe input pressure may be determined at start and end points of the swipe or throughout the line of contact of the swipe.

In addition the touch sensitive parameters may include area covered by a user s finger or a stylus while providing the first input. For example a broad fingertip of a user s finger may cover a broader area while touching the screen than a narrow fingertip of another user s finger. Further the touch sensitive parameters may include direction of stroke associated with the first touch input. In one example the electronic device may determine that the swipe is in a horizontal direction and towards the left. Similarly the electronic device may determine other directions such as vertical diagonal right left etc. The touch sensitive parameters may further include shape of a swipe movement associated with a touch input. For example the electronic device may determine that the touch movement is linear circular curvilinear or has any other geometrical shape. The touch sensitive parameters may further include position coordinates of one or more points of contact associated with a stroke. The touch sensitive parameters may further include a length of swipe. The length of swipe includes the distance between start and end points of the swipe.

Further the touch sensitive parameters may include a dryness level associated with a user s finger or a stylus that touches the touch screen of the electronic device. For example at certain instances the finger of a user may be dry while touching the touch screen. At certain other instances the finger of the user may be relatively humid such as when the user is sweating or there is water on the finger. The touch sensitive parameters may further include one or more of speed and acceleration associated with a stroke. For example in case of a swipe input the speed of the swipe may be calculated from the length of swipe and the duration of contact with the touch screen. The touch sensitive parameters may also include irregularity of a stroke associated with the first touch input. In one example the electronic device may determine that the swipe movement for a horizontal swipe is 85 linear for one stroke while for another stroke the swipe movement may be determined to be 98 linear with respect to horizontal direction.

In some embodiments the electronic device may have a stored list of values for one or more of these parameters which may be used as reference values for determining a mood of the user. A different set of values of parameters may be associated with each mood. For example for a happy mood the reference range values of duration of contact of a touch input may be 600 650 milliseconds linearity of the touch input may be 80 85 and angle of touch may be 80 90 . Similarly for an angry mood the reference range values of duration of contact of a touch input may be 400 450 milliseconds linearity of touch input may be 90 95 and the angle may be 50 60 . Similarly a list of reference values may be associated with each mood and stored in the electronic device at the time of manufacture or provided to the electronic device as an update.

In some embodiments the processor may also dynamically learn additional values of the touch sensitive parameters for different moods over a period of time. To improve the accuracy of the electronic device in determining the mood of the user the user may provide one or more touch inputs so that the electronic device is able to store training data sets for different moods. A training data set may include touch sensitive parameters that are specific to a mood of the user. In one example when the user is in a happy mood the user may enable a training mode in the electronic device and provide a touch input to the electronic device. The electronic device may determine touch sensitive parameters associated with the provided touch input. These touch sensitive parameters may be associated with the happy mood by the electronic device and stored in the electronic device for future reference. The electronic device may be trained for storing training data sets for different moods in a similar manner to further increase the accuracy of detecting the mood of the user.

Referring back to step when the user provides the first input to the electronic device the processor of the electronic device may determine values for one or more of the touch sensitive parameters associated with the first input as discussed. Further the processor compares the determined values to the stored reference values to determine a mood of the user. For example if the determined values of the parameters match closely to the stored reference values associated with happy mood the mood of the user may be determined to be happy. 

Once the mood is determined the processor may refer user preferences that are stored in the memory of the electronic device. The user preferences may include a mapping between various moods of the user and password themes that were configured by the user. An example of user preferences is illustrated in table 1. In an exemplary scenario the processor may determine one or more touch sensitive parameters from a swipe input by the user. Based on these determined touch sensitive parameters and their stored reference values the processor may determine that the mood of the user is happy. Further the processor may refer to the user preferences in table 1 and determine that the mood happy is mapped to password theme music. Thus based on the user preferences and the touch sensitive parameters associated with the swipe input the processor may determine the password theme music. 

In step the processor displays the determined password theme that includes a plurality of visual cues on a display screen of the electronic device. In one example the determined password theme may be displayed on a touch screen on which the user provides the first input. In another example a user may provide the first input on a touch pad but the determined password theme may be displayed on a display screen.

In some embodiments the plurality of visual cues included in the determined password theme may be grouped into different categories associated with the determined password theme. Each category may include a group of visual cues from the plurality of visual cues. In one example a determined password theme may be music and may include six different categories associated with music classical music country music pop music electronic music metal music and blues music. Each of these categories may include multiple visual cues associated with that category. For example the category classical music may include the visual cues symphony opera choral works chamber music gregorian chant madrigal dhrupad dhamar and khayal that represent nine types of classical music. Similarly the category pop music may include the visual cues ambient downtempo electronic rock eurodance hard dance house music jungle post disco and techno that represent different types of pop music. Other categories of this password theme may also include one or more visual cues in a similar manner. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the number of visual cues in a category may not necessarily be equal to other categories and can be more or less than another category associated with the password theme.

In some embodiments the predetermined theme may be displayed by the processor on a multidimensional object on a display screen of the electronic device. An exemplary three dimensional object in the form of a three dimensional cube is illustrated in . The determined password theme may be represented on cube . Cube may include visual cues VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC displayed on face visual cues VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC displayed on face visual cues VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC displayed on face . It is understood that these faces are illustrated only for exemplary purposes and cube includes a total of six faces. Further it should be understood that the number of faces may change according to the type of multidimensional object that is displayed.

Each category of the determined password theme may be associated with a face of cube and may be represented on that face. In some embodiments face may represent a first category of visual cues associated with the determined password theme VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC . Face may represent a second category of visual cues associated with the determined password theme VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC . Similarly face may represent a third category of visual cues VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC .

In an exemplary scenario the three dimensional cube may represent the determined password theme music. Each of the categories of music such as classical music country music pop music electronic music metal music and blues music may be displayed on a face associated with that category. Here face may represent the category classical music face may represent the category country music face may represent the category pop music and so on. In keeping with this example the visual cues VC VC VC VC VC VC VC VC and VC may represent types of classical music symphony opera choral works chamber music gregorian chant madrigal dhrupad dhamar and khayal respectively. Other faces of cube may represent the categories and visual cues associated with those faces in a similar manner as discussed.

It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the number of visual cues associated with a face or a category may be more or less than the number of visual cues illustrated here. Further it should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that all the faces may not necessarily be associated with a category. One or more faces may not represent anything in case the number of categories associated with the password theme is less than the number of faces of the multidimensional object.

Referring back to the electronic device may receive a second input selecting a sequence of visual cues from the plurality of visual cues in step . In some embodiments the second input may be a touch input received from the user of the electronic device. The user may select a sequence of visual cues from the displayed visual cues associated with the displayed password theme. Here the user may select one or more visual cues from each of the displayed categories associated with the displayed password theme. In some embodiments the user must select a minimum number of visual cues to enhance security. For example a user must select a minimum of three visual cues from all the displayed visual cues associated with a displayed password theme for security purposes. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that it is not necessary to select visual cues from all the categories. A user may select visual cues from only some of the categories depending upon a password that the user associated with the displayed password theme while configuring the password theme.

In an exemplary scenario a password theme music may be displayed on a three dimensional cube by displaying different categories associated with music on each face of the cube. Based on a predetermined password that was previously associated with the password theme music as its default password by the user the user may select a combination of visual cues in a sequential order. The selection of visual cues may include selecting one or more visual cues from each of the categories that are displayed on the three dimensional cube. In keeping with this example the user may select four visual cues from four different categories of music in a sequential order. Here the user may select visual cues opera bluegrass ambient and heavy metal in the illustrated sequence each from a different category associated with the password them music. After selecting a visual cue from its associated face the cube may be rotated by the user to display another face in order to select the next visual cue in the sequence. The user may do so until the entire sequence of visual cues is selected. The rotation of cube after each visual cue is selected may reduce the probability of the selection being visible to another user.

In step the processor may verify the sequence of visual cues that were selected. In some embodiments the verification may include comparing the sequence of the selected visual cues with a predetermined password that was associated with the displayed password theme while configuring the password theme. This may include comparing visual cues selected during the second input with visual cues associated with the predetermined password. The verification may further include comparing the sequence of selected visual cues with a sequence of the visual cues associated with the predetermined password. Here the processor may compare the sequential order of selection of the selected visual cues with the sequential order of selection of the visual cues associated with the predetermined password. The details regarding the generation and storing of the predetermined password associated with a password theme have already been discussed in the context of .

In keeping with the previous example a user may select the sequence of visual cues opera bluegrass ambient and heavy metal associated with the password theme music by providing the second input to the electronic device. This sequence may be compared with a predetermined password that has been associated with the password theme music as its default password. Further the processor may compare the selected visual cues with the visual cues associated with the predetermined password to determine whether a match exists between both of them. In addition the sequential order of the selected visual cues may be compared with the sequence of selection of visual cues associated with the predetermined password to determine whether a match exists between both the sequential orders.

In step the processor may determine whether the verification is successful or not. This may include determining whether the selected visual cues match with the visual cues associated with the predetermined password. This may further include determining whether the sequential order of the selected visual cues matches with the sequential order of visual cues associated with the predetermined password. A successful verification may indicate that all selected visual cues match with the visual cues associated with the predetermined password and the sequential order of the selected visual cues matches with the sequential order of selection of visual cues associated with the predetermined password.

In step the processor may provide user access to the electronic device if the verification is successful. In some embodiments this may include authenticating a user to access the electronic device if the verification is successful. For example if the verification is successful the processor may unlock the electronic device so that the user can access it. A user may be authenticated to access the electronic device if the sequence of the selected visual cues matches the combination of visual cues associated with the predetermined password and the sequence of the selected visual cues matches the sequence of visual cues associated with the predetermined password.

But if the verification is unsuccessful for example the sequence of the selected visual cues does not match with the combination and sequence of visual cues of the predetermined password the electronic device may prompt the user to re enter the second input to verify it again. The details regarding receiving the second input have already been discussed in the context of step of . In some embodiments the electronic device may do so for a fixed number of times until the verification is successful. If the number of attempts exceeds this fixed number of times and the verification is still unsuccessful the electronic device may block the user from providing the second input temporarily.

In some embodiments of this disclosure the electronic device may monitor one or more of location time date and or day along with the mood of the user every time the user provides the first input to the electronic device. In some embodiments a combination of some or all of location time date day and mood of the user may be determined over a period of time. Further a set of relevant visual cues may be dynamically determined as a password theme based on the determined combination. This set may differ from a password theme that is already associated with the mood of the user. For example the electronic device may monitor over a period of two weeks that the user visits a restaurant at all weekdays during lunch time. Further the electronic device may determine that the user is in a happy mood during a substantial portion of these two weeks. The electronic device in this case may determine from the internet a set of visual cues that represent different food items available in the restaurant. Further since the user may already have another password theme music associated with the happy mood the electronic device may prompt the user whether to keep the existing password theme music or select the suggested set of food items as a new password theme for the determined combination of mood location day and or time. In case the user selects the suggested set of visual cues as a new password theme the new password theme may be displayed if in the future the user attempts to unlock the electronic device in the restaurant during lunch time on a weekday.

In some embodiments the electronic device may allow a user to change a password theme associated with a mood. For example the processor of the electronic device may determine that the time taken to provide the second input has considerably reduced over a period of time. Here the processor may determine that the user may be selecting all the visual cues associated with the password theme music in a very short duration as compared to the time taken when the theme was newly configured. A possible reason for this may be that the user has gotten bored of using the password theme music over a period of time. Therefore the electronic device may suggest one or more new password themes to the user to associate with the mood happy to which the password theme music was previously associated. Here the electronic device may suggest a list of themes such as shopping activities cars or restaurants to the user. On selecting a theme a user may configure the theme further and associate it with the mood happy for future use. Alternately in some embodiments a user may also manually change a password theme associated with a mood by changing the user preferences and store the updated user preferences in the memory of the electronic device.

Electronic device may be programmed by a user to configure one or more password themes and set user preferences associated one or more of the configured password themes. Further a user may generate a password associated with each of the configured password themes and store it in memory as described in the context of .

In some embodiments electronic device may receive a first input from a user for requesting authentication of the user. On receiving the first input processor may determine one or more touch sensitive parameters associated with the first input. Here the first input may include a touch stroke for example. Further the touch sensitive parameters may include but are not limited to angle of a stroke duration of a stroke pressure applied by a stroke direction of a stroke shape of a movement associated with a stroke position coordinates associated with a stroke length of a stroke humidity associated with a stroke temperature associated with a stroke speed of a stroke acceleration of a stroke and irregularity associated with a stroke. Further processor may determine a mood of the user based on the determined touch sensitive parameters. Once the mood is determined processor may determine a password theme associated with the mood based on user preferences. Some example user preferences are illustrated in table 1.

On determining a password theme associated with the mood of the user processor may display the determined password theme on a display screen not shown of electronic device . The displayed password theme may include a plurality of visual cues associated with the displayed password theme. The visual cues may be grouped into one or more categories associated with the displayed password theme. Each category may thus include one or more visual cues. In some embodiments the password theme may be displayed on a multidimensional object. Further each of the categories associated with the password theme may be displayed on an associated face of the multidimensional object.

Further a user may provide a second input to electronic device by selecting a sequence of visual cues from the plurality of visual cues associated with the displayed password theme. In some embodiments a user may select one or more visual cues from one or more of the categories associated with the displayed theme.

Once electronic device receives the second input processor may verify the sequence of visual cues that were selected. In some embodiments the verification may include comparing the sequence of the selected visual cues with a predetermined password associated with the displayed password theme. This may include comparing all selected visual cues with the visual cues associated with the predetermined password. The verification may further include comparing the sequence of selected visual cues with a predetermined sequence of visual cues associated with the predetermined password.

Further processor may determine whether the verification is successful or not. This may include determining whether the selected visual cues match the visual cues associated with the predetermined password. This verification may further include determining whether the sequential order of the selected visual cues matches the sequential order of visual cues associated with the predetermined password. A successful verification may indicate that all selected visual cues match with the visual cues associated with the predetermined password and the sequential order of the selected visual cues matches the sequential order of selection of visual cues associated with the predetermined password.

If the verification is successful processor may provide user access to electronic device . In some embodiments this may include authenticating a user to access electronic device if the verification is successful. But if the verification is unsuccessful for example the sequence of the selected visual cues does not match with the combination and sequence of visual cues of the predetermined password electronic device may prompt the user to re enter the second input to verify it again. In some embodiments electronic device may do so for a fixed number of times until the verification is successful. If the number of attempts exceeds this fixed number of times and the verification is still unsuccessful electronic device may block the user from providing the second input for a fixed duration of time.

The specification has described authentication of an electronic device based on user preferences. It is convenient for a user of the electronic device to remember the passwords associated with various password themes because the visual cues in each password may represent a combination of favorite items or activities of the user. Further the methods and systems in the disclosure enhance the security of authentication by adding a further security layer of dynamically displaying password themes based on various moods of the user. A password theme is dynamically displayed based on a mood of a first user of the electronic device which is further dependent on a combination of touch sensitive parameters specific to the first user. Thus even if a password for one password theme is seen or hacked by a second user there is very less probability that the same password theme would be displayed to the second user based on a touch input received by the second user. This is because the combination of determined touch sensitive parameters may be entirely different for the second user than the first user which may result in a different password theme being displayed whose password is not known to the second user.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM47501UB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments. Also the words comprising having containing and including and other similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or items or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

