---

title: Location categorization
abstract: Data associated with a plurality of check-ins performed by users of a social network is received by processors where each check-in identifies a location and tags associated with the location within the social network that are used by the social network to describe the location. A mapping of tags to categories from a list of categories where each tag is mapped to a single category is accessed by the processors. One or more categories are determined by the processors for each check-in based on the mapping of tags to categories for each check-in. A single category is identified by the processors from the determined one or more categories for each check-in. Data associating each check-in is stored by the processors in association with the identified category for each check-in. Data representing the plurality of check-ins and the respective single category for each check-in is outputted for display by the processors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275127&OS=09275127&RS=09275127
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09275127
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130614
---
An electronic social networking platform may store data about or otherwise related to locations visited by users of the electronic social networking platform.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification may include data associated with a plurality of check ins performed by users of an electronic social networking platform is received by one or more processors where each check in of the plurality of check ins identifies a location and two or more tags associated with the location within the electronic social networking platform that are used by the electronic social networking platform to describe the location. A mapping of tags used by the electronic social networking platform to describe locations represented within the electronic social networking platform to categories from a list of categories where each tag is mapped to a single category within the list of categories is accessed by the one or more processors. One or more categories from the list of categories are determined by the one or more processors for each check in of the plurality of check ins based on the mapping of tags to categories for each check in of the plurality of check ins. A single category is identified by the one or more processors from the determined one or more categories for each check in of the plurality of check ins. Data associating each check in of the plurality of check ins is stored by the one or more processors in association with the identified category for each check in of the plurality of check ins. Data representing the plurality of check ins and the respective single category for each check in is outputted for display by the one or more processors.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. For example each tag associated with the location within the electronic social networking platform may be mapped to a single category within the list of categories the list of categories may be ranked and a highest ranking single category from the one or more categories may be identified based on the ranking of the list of categories. Information associated with the location of the respective check in may be analyzed to identify the single category from the determined one or more categories. The received data associated with the plurality of check ins may include a name of the location an identity of the user of the electronic social networking platform who performed the check in and or a date that the check in was recorded with the social networking platform.

A set of users of the electronic social networking platform which have performed at least two check ins at a particular location may be determined information identifying the set of users as repeat visitors of the particular location may be stored and outputting data representing the plurality of check ins and the respective single category for each check in for display may include information identifying the repeat visitors. Outputting data representing the plurality of check ins and the respective single category for each check in for display may include information identifying the set of repeat visitors comprises outputting for display from the one or more processors data representing the plurality of check ins and the respective single category for each check in including information identifying unique visitors for the category. A user selection of a category may be received and in response to the user selection a list of names of locations associated with check ins mapped to the selected category may be provided for display.

Other features may include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs encoded on computer storage devices configured to perform the foregoing actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

An application may receive data from an electronic social networking platform on behalf of users of the application who also are represented by user identities within the electronic social networking platform. This data received from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to the users of the application. In addition this data received from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. After receiving this data from the electronic social networking platform the application may process the received data to enable analysis of the received data for example to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. In some implementations the application may enable users of the application who also are represented by user identities within the electronic social networking platform to analyze the data received from the electronic social networking platform. Additionally or alternatively the application may enable administrators or other representatives of the application to analyze the data received data from the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore the application may enable various other third parties to analyze the data received from the electronic social networking platform.

For example an application may enable a user to analyze data related to locations that users of the social networking platform have visited. The locations a user has visited may be identified with check ins. A check in may be represented as a connection between a user of a social networking platform and a social networking location object representing a location created by the user or on behalf of the user of the social networking platform. A location object may identify a location and may include a brief description of the location and or links to a description of the location. Locations may include for instance geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc.

The social networking platform may record user check ins in various ways. For example a user may directly record a check in using a link button voice command or any other means provided within the social networking platform. Alternatively or in addition the social networking platform may record a user check in when it identifies that a specific user interaction with the social networking platform e.g. a post etc. has originated from a particular location. For instance a user may take a family picture on his smartphone at a baseball game and post the picture on the social networking platform from the game. If the social networking platform identifies that the picture was posted from the stadium e.g. via cellular triangulation or GPS the platform may record a check in for the user s social networking platform user identity at the stadium. In addition the social networking platform may use a post picture or video posted by the user to record a check in for a different user who was tagged in the first user s post picture or video. Continuing the prior example if the user tags his child in the picture that he posted to the social networking platform at the baseball game the social networking platform may record a check in at the stadium for the child s social networking platform user identity.

The application may use data associated with the locations in the social networking platform e.g. tags to classify the locations into a manageable number of different categories. As described herein a tag may be a brief descriptive or identifying word or phrase associated with a location within a social networking platform. Furthermore a category may be a distinct class e.g. used by a social intelligence application for classifying locations associated with social network platform user check ins.

A user may be allowed to readily view and analyze data pertaining to the categories of locations and or individual locations at which users have registered check ins that have been received from the social networking platform. For example the data may include the number of locations within each category at which users have recorded check ins the number of visits and repeat visitors to locations within each category by users of the social networking platform and the percentage of total visitors to locations who were repeat visitors. The application may thus provide a user with an indication of social trends within a region and or the popularity of individual locations.

There are many different examples of electronic social networking platforms. Facebook Twitter Linked In Google MySpace and Orkut are just a few examples. But there are many others and it is reasonable to expect many more to be developed in the future. Techniques are described herein for receiving analyzing and or acting upon data from an electronic social networking platform. These techniques are widely applicable and may be employed in connection with any of the above electronic social networking platforms or any other electronic social networking platforms.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable an individual user identity to create a user profile that reflects various different types of information about or otherwise related to the user identity. Such a profile for a particular user identity may be helpful to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in learning more about the particular user identity. Similarly the profile for the particular user identity may be helpful to the user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in confirming that the particular user identity represents a particular human user within the electronic social networking platform.

For example an electronic social networking platform may maintain a user profile for a user identity that reflects the user identity s name gender age relationship status education history e.g. schools attended and or degrees awarded employment history e.g. employers and or positions held contact information e.g. e mail address es telephone number s other electronic addresses physical addresses etc. current residence information e.g. city state territory and or country hometown information e.g. city state territory and or country primary language and or sexual orientation.

Additionally or alternatively the user identity s profile also may reflect various different interests of the user identity and or indications of various different locations that the user identity or another user identity such as for example a member of the user identity s social network has registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited. Such locations may include a wide variety of different types of locations including for example geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. For ease of reference indications of locations registered with an electronic social networking platform as locations that a user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check ins and information stored in a user identity s profile that reflects such indications of locations registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check in information. Check in information may include for instance a link to a page within the social networking platform describing the location at which the user identity has registered a check in. 

Electronic social networking platforms also typically enable an individual user identity e.g. representing a human user who has registered with the electronic social networking platform and or a human user who has been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the electronic social networking platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users of the electronic social networking platform who are represented by the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users represented by the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms user identities may be able to form connections with other user identities unilaterally. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by requesting to form a connection to the second user identity without requiring authorization of the connection by the second user identity . Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may involve bilateral participation by both user identities. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity requests to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection between the first and second user identities only after receiving authorization to form the connection from the second user identity.

A user identity s social network within an electronic social networking platform may be defined based on the connections between the user identity and other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to extend beyond the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected to include other user identities who are within a threshold level of proximity to the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform. For example social proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of the number of degrees of separation or the number of other intermediate interconnected user identities required to form a connection between the two user identities within the electronic social networking platform and the social network of a particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities who are within a threshold number of degrees of separation of the particular user identity.

Commonly an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with certain increased functionality in connection with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform that the electronic social networking platform may not provide to the particular user identity in connection with user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with one or more different mechanisms for electronically communicating or otherwise sharing content with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may enable a particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform while not enabling the particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform.

The connections between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. As new user identities join and other user identities stop using the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections between user identities are formed and old connections between user identities are dissolved this graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time to represent the current state of connections between user identities within the electronic social networking platform.

For situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s current location . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized.

As discussed above in some cases an electronic social networking platform may define a particular user identity s social network as the group of other user identities to whom the user identity is directly connected. If this definition is applied within the electronic social networking platform illustrated in the social network for the user identity represented by node would be defined as the group of other user identities represented by nodes .

In addition to enabling a user identity to establish connections to other user identities and thereby form a social network some electronic social networking platforms may enable a particular user identity to divide the user identity s social network into one or more subsets of user identities who may for example share one or more characteristics of significance to the particular user identity. For example a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may wish to define subsets of user identities within the particular user identity s social network that reflect other user identities with whom the particular user identity has a familial relationship a professional relationship or a social relationship. For ease of reference such defined subsets of a particular user s social network may be referred to herein as Friendlists. 

As further discussed above an electronic social networking application may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking application may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are part of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking application also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all such as for example one or more Friendlists of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking application may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity that is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may determine whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities some electronic social networking platforms enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. For example some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record information about their hometowns current places of residence or places they have visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. by establishing connections to location objects within the electronic social networking platforms. In some cases a user identity may be said to record a check in with an electronic social networking platform when the user identity records information within the electronic social networking platform about a location the user identity has visited. Some electronic social networking platforms also may enable user identities to record check ins on behalf of other user identities. For instance some electronic social networking platforms may enable members of a particular user identity s social network to record a check in on behalf of the particular user identity e.g. when the user identities visit a location together . In such scenarios the electronic social networking platform may record the location as a location the particular user identity visited even though the check in at the location was not initiated by the particular user identity.

Additionally or alternatively some social networking platforms may enable user identities to generate event objects within the electronic social networking platforms that represent events that they are hosting. After creating event objects for such events user identities may be provided with mechanisms for inviting other user identities to the events. Furthermore a connection may be established between an event object and a user identity within an electronic social networking platform as a result of the user identity being invited to the event and or as a result of the user identity registering with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event.

Similarly some social networking platforms may enable user identities to record endorsements of various different types of interests for example by establishing connections to interest objects that represent these interests. Such interest objects may include a variety of different types of objects including for example non personal enterprise objects. Examples of such non personal enterprise objects may include among others local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. In some electronic social networking platforms interest objects including non personal enterprise objects may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as so called pages. These pages especially pages associated with non personal enterprise interest objects may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. In addition among other features these pages may provide information about the interests or non personal enterprises represented by the objects. These pages also may provide conduits for enabling interaction between the interest or non personal enterprise objects and the user identities that have formed connections to the objects that represent them. Furthermore some electronic social networking platforms may enable pages like user identities to establish event objects related to events associated with the interest represented by the page.

Moreover some social networking platforms may enable user identities to establish connections with independent applications that leverage the social networking platforms for example by granting the independent applications authorization to access or receive data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf.

An edge that connects two nodes represents a connection that has been formed between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the non personal enterprise object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such a non personal enterprise object in order to record an endorsement of the non personal enterprise represented by the object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and a non personal enterprise object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections that have been formed between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects.

For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence.

Moreover in order to store a record of a place the user identity visited including geographic locations e.g. such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues local businesses or places e.g. such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a place that the user identity visited. In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS and or map data available to the mobile computing device.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection that has been formed between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as event connections. There may be various different types of event connections between user identities and event objects in a social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in a social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity tentatively will be attending the event.

In some electronic social networking platforms that enable user identities to form connections with object types like location objects event objects and interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects such location objects event objects and or interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects each may be associated with one or more representatives. Furthermore the electronic social networking platforms may enable these representatives to interact with the user identities to whom the objects are connected using the manifestation of the object within the electronic social networking platform.

For example a non personal enterprise object within an electronic social networking platform may be manifested as a page that provides information about the non personal enterprise that the object represents and the electronic social networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the page to share information and exchange electronic communications with the user identities connected to the non personal enterprise object in a manner in which such shared information or exchanged communications appear to involve the page as opposed to an individual user identity. In one particular example the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables one or more representatives associated with the non personal enterprise to broadcast an electronic message that is shared publicly with all or some defined subset of all of the user identities to which the non personal enterprise object is connected.

Additionally or alternatively an event object within an electronic social networking platform also may be manifested as an event page that provides information about the event the object represents e.g. date time and location information for the event and the electronic networking platform may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user identities who have been invited to the event via the event page. In some electronic social networking platforms both personal user identities and non personal enterprise objects and their representatives may be able to create and host events.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable user identities to maintain user profiles or other collections of data that include information about the user identities to whom they correspond. Such a profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include among other information information about the user identity s hometown current residence age gender relationship status educational background and or professional background. Additionally or alternatively the profile for an individual user identity of an electronic social networking platform may include records of various different interests of the user identity e.g. endorsements of non personal enterprises or other interests .

In some electronic social networking platforms at least some of the profile information recorded for an individual user identity may be represented by connections between the user identity and other types of objects within the electronic social networking platforms. For example information about a user identity s hometown and or current residence may be represented as a connection between the user identity and one or more different location objects for example as described above in connection with . Additionally or alternatively information about a user identity s interests may be represented as connections between the user identity and one or more different interest objects e.g. non personal enterprise objects for example as also described above in connection with .

Some electronic social networking platforms provide mechanisms that enable independent applications to leverage the electronic social networking platforms to provide services to client computing devices that are in addition to the services provided by the electronic social networking platforms themselves. One example of such an independent application is a social intelligence application. A social intelligence application may receive data from the electronic social networking platform that is available to different user identities of the electronic social networking platform. Thereafter the social intelligence service may process the received content and represent the received content and or generate reports about the received content so as to enable the individual user identities to glean better intelligence from the data that is available to them within the electronic social networking platform.

For example as described in greater detail below a social intelligence application may receive data about check ins registered by a particular user identity and other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network from an electronic social networking platform. The social intelligence application then may process this received check in data to determine statistics related to electronic social networking platform user interactions with different locations and categories of locations. Consequently the social intelligence application may provide the particular user with statistics related to the number of locations represented by check ins the number of check ins performed at each location and mapped to each category the number of unique visitors among the received check ins who visited each location the total number of unique visitors represented in each category the number of repeat visitors among the received check ins who visited each location the total number of unique visitors represented in each category and or the percentage of unique visitors at each location and in each category who were also repeat visitors.

The different examples of electronic social networking platforms described above may provide various different types of user interfaces for interacting with the electronic social networking platforms. In one particular example an electronic social networking platform may provide multiple different GUIs to a user identity to enable the user identity to interact with the underlying electronic social networking platform.

In this example the electronic social networking platform may provide a first GUI to the user identity that among other features presents to the user identity a feed that includes i electronic messages that have been shared with the user identity by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and or by other types of objects e.g. location event and interest objects to which the user identity is connected and or ii information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. For ease of reference this feed presented to a user identity in the first GUI provided by the electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as the user identity s news feed. 

In addition to the first GUI described above in connection with this example the electronic social networking platform also may provide a second GUI to the user identity that among other features presents to the user identity a feed that includes i electronic messages that have been shared by the personal user identity with members of the personal user identity s social network either in a broadcast or a directed fashion ii electronic messages that were shared with the user identity by members of the user identity s social network or in some cases by gaming applications that leverage the electronic social networking platform and that were directed specifically to the user identity that the user identity nevertheless may allow other members of the user identity s social network to view and iii information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by the user identity. For ease of reference this feed presented to a user identity in the second GUI provided by the electronic social networking platform may be referred to as the user identity s personal feed. 

Referring to GUI includes a news feed that includes different feed items . The items included within news feed include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with the particular user identity by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example item includes a picture and a corresponding message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as John. Similarly item includes a message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as Jane and item includes a hyperlink to a web page and a corresponding message shared with the particular user identity by a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as Joe. Although not illustrated in in addition to enabling user identities to share pictures and hyperlinks with members of their social networks e.g. as illustrated by items and respectively the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to share other types of content with members of their social networks including for example videos.

Items and may represent content and or messages that the particular user identities who shared these items i.e. John Jane and Joe respectively shared generally with multiple members of their own social networks. For ease of reference messages and or content that user identities share as general broadcast messages to multiple members of their social networks such as for example picture and corresponding message of item message of item and hyperlink and corresponding message of item may be referred to herein as status posts. 

In addition to enabling user identities to send general broadcast messages to multiple members of their social networks the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to send directed messages to individual user identities within their social networks. Such directed messages may be presented to the user identities to whom they are targeted within the targeted user identities personal feeds and the electronic social networking platform may provide user identities with controls for configuring whether such directed messages also are shared with members of the targeted user identities own social networks. In the event that a targeted user identity selects configuration settings that provide for directed messages to the targeted user to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s social network such directed messages may be presented to the other members of the targeted user identity s social network in their news feeds. 

Item in the news feed of the GUI for a particular user identity of the electronic social networking platform is an example of a message that was directed to a targeted user identity who is a member of the particular user identity s social network and who selected configuration settings that provided for the directed message to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s own social network. More particularly message was directed to a member of the particular user identity s social network identified as John by another user identity identified as Jane. Because the user identity identified as John is a member of the particular user identity s social network and because the user identity identified as John selected configuration settings that provide for directed messages that target the user identity identified as John to be shared with other members of his social network the directed message from the user identity identified as Jane to the user identity identified as John is presented in the particular user identity s news feed . The user identity identified as Jane may or may not be a member of the particular user identity s own social network.

 News feed also includes information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example item indicates that a user identity identified as Joe checked in at a location identified as World Caf . The location World Caf may be represented as a location object within the electronic social networking platform and may correspond to for example a local restaurant.

The items included within news feed also include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with the particular user identity by other types of objects e.g. location event and interest objects to which the user identity is connected. For example item includes a message shared with the particular user identity by a non personal enterprise object identified as MicroStrategy.

The items presented in news feed provide mechanisms that enable the particular user identity to react to the objects included within the items presented in news feed . For example as illustrated in each of the items presented in news feed includes a selectable Endorse control and a selectable Comment control . A selectable Endorse control in an item enables the particular user identity to register an endorsement of the object s e.g. content message and or activity included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such endorsements and may present the number of endorsements registered in connection with the object s presented in an item in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes an indication that six different user identities have registered endorsements of the picture and message included in item .

A selectable Comment control in an item enables the particular user identity to enter a responsive comment to the object s included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such responsive comments and associates them with the object s included in the item so that the electronic social networking platform may present any such responsive comments in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes a message by a user identity identified as Joe that was entered in response to the message originally shared by the user identity identified as Jane.

In addition to news feed GUI also includes a selectable Post Message control a selectable Share Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post Message control enables the particular user identity to compose and post a status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share Photo Video control enables the particular user identity to share a picture or a video and to compose and post a corresponding status message by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

Although not illustrated a personal feed is similar to the news feed but may include different feed items. The items included within a personal feed may include content and or electronic messages that the particular user identity shared with other members of the particular user identity s social network. Such content and or electronic messages may include status posts that the particular user identity broadcasted generally to multiple members of the particular user identity s social network responsive comments that the particular user identity entered in response to content and or messages shared by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and directed messages that the particular user identity shared with specifically targeted individual user identity s who are members of the particular user identity s social network.

As discussed above in some electronic social networking platforms locations may be represented as location objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. is a diagram of an example of a GUI for an example of an electronic social networking platform within which locations are represented as location objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. More particularly GUI is displaying a representation of a location object for a location identified as Bad News Bears Stadium. As illustrated in the Bad News Bears Stadium page includes an information section that provides background information about Bad News Bears Stadium. The information section may contain tags e.g. sports venue stadium tourist attraction and landmark associated with the location identified by the location object contact information for the location and a brief description of the location venue. In some instances the information section may be longer than the space available for text in which case the information section may include a link e.g. more info to a more detailed description of the location. The Bad News Bears Stadium location object also includes tags that briefly describe or identify the location represented in the location object in a word or phrase such as Sports Venue Stadium Tourist Attraction or Landmark. Although not illustrated as such in a location object may also include various additional or alternative types of content.

Bad News Bears Stadium location object also includes a selectable Endorse control that enables user identities who view the Bad News Bears Stadium location object and who have not already endorsed Bad News Bears Stadium to record an endorsement of Bad News Bears Stadium as one of their interests. In response to invocation of selectable endorse control by a particular user identity the electronic social networking platform records that the particular user identity has endorsed Bad News Bears Stadium as an interest for example by establishing a connection between the object that represents the particular user identity in the platform and the interest object that represents Bad News Bears Stadium within the electronic social networking platform. Bad News Bears Stadium location object also includes an indication reporting that 124 000 user identities already have endorsed Bad News Bears Stadium within the electronic social networking platform. In addition a location object may include thumbnail images and with links to photos and maps . For example Bad News Bears Stadium location object includes thumbnail images and with links to photos of the stadium and events held at the stadium as well as a map of the area surrounding Bad News Bears Stadium.

Bad News Bears Stadium location object also includes a selectable Check in control that enables user identities who view the Bad News Bears Stadium location object to indicate that they visited the stadium by checking in with the location object . The social networking platform also may record a user identity check in when the platform identifies that a specific user identity interaction with the social networking platform has originated from a particular location. For instance a user may take a family picture on his smartphone at Bad News Bears Stadium and post the picture within the social networking platform from the game. If the social networking platform identifies that the picture was posted from the Bad News Bears Stadium e.g. via cellular triangulation or GPS the platform may record a check in for the user s social networking platform user identity at the stadium. In addition the social networking platform may use a post picture or video posted by one user identity to record a check in for a second user identify who was tagged in the first user identity s posted post picture or video. Continuing the prior example if the user tags his child in the picture that he posted to the social networking platform at Bad News Bears Stadium the social networking platform may record a check in at the stadium for the child s social networking platform user identity.

In some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed and or locations checked in at by a particular user identity may be shared with or otherwise made available to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In particular in some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed and or locations checked in at by a particular user identity may be shared with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network.

As illustrated in system includes an electronic social networking platform that is accessible to a number of computing devices including for example a laptop computer a tablet computer and a smartphone over a network . In addition system also includes a computing system that hosts a social intelligence application. Computing system may be external to electronic social networking platform . As such electronic social networking platform may be accessible to computing system over network . Alternatively or additionally in some implementations the social intelligence application may be hosted by the electronic social networking platform . Additionally computing system may be accessible to computing devices over network .

Electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing devices connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. Electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and receive data from the electronic social networking platform .

Computing devices may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example mobile phones smartphones personal digital assistants laptop tablet and netbook computers and desktop computers including personal computers special purpose computers general purpose computers and or combinations of special purpose and general purpose computers. Each of the computing devices typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for each of the computing devices may store a client application for interfacing with electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with computing system . Additionally or alternatively computing devices may be configured to interface with electronic social networking platform or computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser.

Each of the computing devices also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . Each of the computing devices also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

Network may provide direct or indirect communication links between electronic social networking platform computing devices and computing system . Examples of network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

Computing system hosts a social intelligence application. As such computing system is configured to receive and process data from one or more electronic social networking platforms e.g. electronic social networking platform . For example computing system may be configured to exploit API to receive data from electronic social networking platform . Among other features computing system may be configured to receive data about multiple different user identities social networks including information about locations where each user identity has checked in.

Computing system may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

In some implementations electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to grant computing system a token that defines permission levels related to data about the user identities social networks that computing system may access extract and receive from electronic social networking platform . For each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system may receive information about the user identity and the other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network. This information may include identifying information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network as well as demographic information for the user identity and each member of the user identity s social network e.g. hometown current residence age or date of birth gender relationship status etc. . For each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may receive communications that the user identity shared with other user identities as well as communications that have been shared with the user identity. In addition for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may receive information about locations where the user identity has checked in i.e. check in information . Additionally or alternatively for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may receive communications that members of the user identity s social network have shared with other user identities as well as communications that other user identities shared with members of the user identity s social network. In addition for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system also may receive information locations where members of the user identity s social network have checked in i.e. check in information .

Check in information may include data associated with a plurality of check ins performed by either the user identity or members of the user identity s social network. For example the data associated with check ins check in information may include user identities that performed the check ins identities e.g. names of the locations at which a check in occurred and or a date and time when the check in was recorded.

As described in more detail below in connection with after receiving data from electronic social networking platform computing system may map the data associated with the check ins into categories used by the social intelligence application to classify the locations identified by the check ins . The computing system may access a mapping of tags used by the electronic social networking platform to classify locations within the social networking platform to categories within a list of categories used by the social intelligence application. Using the mapping the computing system may then determine one or more categories with which to associate the data associated with each of the received check ins . For example computing system may map all of the following tags assigned to locations within the electronic social networking platform to a category labeled Restaurant and Takeout employed by the social intelligence application Pizza Restaurant American Restaurant Mexican Restaurant Chinese Restaurant etc. In some cases all tags associated with a location will map to a single category. However instances may occur in which a location is associated with multiple tags two or more of which may be mapped to different categories as described in more detail below with respect to . For example the Bad News Bears Stadium location may be associated with three tags a Sports Venue Stadium tag a Tourist Attraction tag and a Landmark tag. The first tag may be mapped to a Sports Events Venue category while both of the other tags may be mapped to a Visitor Attraction category. In some implementations computer system may attempt to identify a single category from among the more than one mapped categories with which to associate the check in data e.g. the most accurate and or specific category from among the multiple mapped categories .

Computing system may then store the mapped check in data in one or more databases. For example computing system may store data associated with the plurality of check ins from electronic social networking platform in association with the identified category for each check in in one or more databases. Such databases may be implemented as relational or other forms of databases. Computing system then may process the received data stored in the database s and load the processed data into a data warehouse that may facilitate reporting and analysis of the processed data.

Computing system then may provide individual user identities for which computing system has tokens with access to all of the processed data or subsets of the processed data that correspond to data received from electronic social networking platform using their tokens. For example for each individual user identity for which computing system has a token computing system may process check in data received from the electronic social networking platform . In return for granting the token the computing system then may provide the individual user identities with access to a GUI e.g. as shown and described in connection with displaying the processed check in data received from the electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the application may enable various other third parties to analyze the data received from the electronic social networking platform and processed by the social intelligence application. For example some implementations may allow a third party to purchase access to the social intelligence application e.g. an entrepreneur performing market research .

The individual user identities may utilize various different computing devices e.g. computing devices communicatively coupled to computing system via network to access the subsets of the processed data made available to the user identities by computing system . In addition to providing individual user identities with access to the processed data computing system also may provide these individual user identities with various analysis and reporting tools for manipulating the data included within the social intelligence application categories. Additionally or alternatively such analysis and reporting tools may be provided within a client application resident on a computing device that an individual user identity uses to access the processed data made available by computing system .

Among other reporting and analysis tools computing system and or the client application used to access computing system may provide the user identities with filtering tools that enable the user identity to identify check in data for different segments of user identities e.g. based on geographic location of check ins demographic characteristics such as age gender and or relationship status of user identities who performed check ins . Furthermore some implementation also may allow users to analyze social trends within particular locations or the popularity of different categories of locations.

A social intelligence application that provides individual user identities of an electronic social networking platform with access to the received and processed data as described above and or that provides the individual user identities with reporting and analysis tools for manipulating such received and processed data may enable the individual user identities to glean better intelligence from the wealth of data available to them within the electronic social networking platform.

The social intelligence application may access the mapping of tags to categories to determine one or more categories in which to classify the data associated with each of the received check ins. As mentioned above situations may occur in which a location associated with a check in is associated with multiple tags two or more of which map to different categories. For example as illustrated in there are three tags assigned to the venue Bad News Bears Stadium Sports Venue Stadium Tourist Attraction and Landmark. One tag Sports Venue Stadium maps to the category Sports Events Venue while the other two tags Tourist Attraction and Landmark both map to the category Visitor Attraction. Double mapping of a single location to multiple categories as such may produce inaccuracies within aggregated check in data by artificially increasing data associated with one or more categories within the social intelligence application. To alleviate this problem the social intelligence application may identify a single category from among the more than one mapped categories e.g. Sports Events Venue and Visitor Attraction with which to associate the double mapped check in data.

In some implementations the list of social intelligence application categories is ranked e.g. Table 1 and the highest ranked among the more than one mapped categories for a location is chosen as the category with which to associate the location. Thus Bad News Bears Stadium would be associated with the Sports Events Venue category because Sports Events Venue is ranked higher than Visitor Attraction for example. Category ranking may be performed manually or by a computer algorithm in various implementations. Alternatively or in addition the social intelligence application may classify the check in with the category having the highest number of corresponding tags. Thus in the example shown in a check in at Bad News Bears Stadium would map to the Visitor Attraction category rather than the Sports Events Venue category because two of the stadium s three tags map to the Visitor Attraction category. Some implementations may even use a hybrid of the two methods by for example choosing a category for a check in based on the category s rank as a tie breaker if an equal number of tags map to two different categories.

Alternatively or in addition the social intelligence application may analyze information associated with the location to identify a single category from among the more than one mapped categories e.g. the one category perceived as being most accurate . Information associated with the location may include data associated with the check in that identified the location or information from a location object related to the location. For example the social intelligence application may access the Bad News Bears Stadium location object to determine based on a textual analysis of the information section that Sports Events Venue is the most accurate category from among the two mapped categories Sports Events Venue and Visitor Attraction with which to associate data associated with a Bad News Bears Stadium check in.

Referring first to GUI provides an aggregated view of data associated with check ins performed by user identities of an electronic social networking platform. In particular GUI presents a list of categories column that are used to classify various locations column at which user identities have performed check ins column in the electronic social networking platform. In addition GUI presents various different statistics about each of the listed categories and locations represented within each category.

More particularly GUI presents the number of unique visitors column represented by check ins at each location within each category the number of repeat visitors column represented by check ins at each location within each category and the percentage of visitors who were repeat visitors column represented by check ins at each location within each category.

After receiving check in data from the electronic social networking platform and mapping locations to appropriate categories the social intelligence application processes this data to among other things count the number of locations represented by check ins and the number of check ins performed at each location and mapped to each category. Alternative or additional processing by the social intelligence application may include using the data associated with the received check ins e.g. user identity information to determine a set of user identities that have performed at least two check ins at a particular location and storing information identifying the set of users as repeat visitors at that particular location. For example a user identity for John Smith may register a check in at Bad News Bears Stadium at both time A and time B. After mapping the check in registered at time B with the category Sports Events Venue the social intelligence application may recognize that John Smith s user identity had also performed a check in at time A. As a result the social intelligence application may identify John Smith s user identity as a repeat visitor at Bad News Bear Stadium within the category Sports Events Venue. Alternatively or in addition the social intelligence application may increment a number of repeat visitors to Bad News Bears Stadium and recognize that only one check in performed by John Smith s user identity should be included in a number of unique visitors to Bad News Bears Stadium. In some implementations the social intelligence application may use the above described repeat visitor analysis to count the number of unique visitors among the received check ins who visited each location the total number of unique visitors represented in each category the number of repeat visitors among the received check ins who visited each location the total number of unique visitors represented in each category and or the percentage of unique visitors at each location and in each category who were also repeat visitors.

In some implementations the categories presented within the view provided by GUI as illustrated in may extend beyond the visible borders of the GUI . Consequently GUI may enable a user to scroll the view up or down in order to see additional categories presented by the GUI in the view illustrated in . Furthermore GUI provides selectable controls that enable the particular user identity to whom GUI is presented to specify filters that should be applied to the user identities for whom the social intelligence application presents activity statistics within GUI . More particularly GUI provides a selectable Filter control .

In response to a user selection of the selectable Filter control GUI may present a filter menu not shown that provides controls to enable the particular user identity to specify that data represented in the GUI should be filtered according to one or more different characteristics of the user identities who performed check ins including for example i the city state and or country of the user identities who performed check ins at locations mapped to the categories ii the ages of the user identities who performed check ins at locations mapped to the categories iii the genders of the user identities who performed check ins at locations mapped to the categories and iv the relationship status of the user identities who performed check ins at locations mapped to the categories. In response to manipulation of the filter controls provided within filter menu by the particular user identity the social intelligence application accesses check in data filters the information to include only data related to user identities who satisfy the criteria specified by the particular user identity using filter menu and recalculates the tallied data in each column.

Referring now to in some implementations of a social intelligence application each category listed in column may be selectable by a particular user of the social intelligence application. In such implementations when a particular category is selected a list of locations and associated data relevant to each column in GUI may be revealed e.g. in a nested folder format . The data displayed along with each of the locations in the selected category may include for example the number of check ins performed at each location the number of unique visitors among the received check ins who visited each location the number of repeat visitors among the received check ins who visited each location and or the percentage of unique visitors at each location who were also repeat visitors.

The computing system receives data associated with a plurality of check ins performed by users of an electronic social networking platform . Data associated with the plurality of check ins may include information about locations where user identities within the electronic social networking platform have checked in for example identities e.g. names of the locations at which the check ins occurred tags associated with the locations within the social networking platform and or the date and time that the check in was recorded by the social networking platform. For example the tags Sports Venue Stadium Tourist Attraction and Landmark may be received in connection with check ins performed by user identities at Bad News Bears Stadium.

Next the computing system accesses a mapping of tags describing locations associated with the check ins to categories within a list of categories . For instance the mapping may map tags used by the electronic social networking platform to describe locations represented within the electronic social networking platform to categories from a list of categories and each tag in the mapping may be mapped to a single category within the list of categories e.g. as described above in connection with . For example the mapping may include categories such as Sports Events Venue and Visitor Attractions. The computing system then determines for each check in of the plurality of check ins one or more categories from the list of categories based on the mapping of tags to categories and identifies for each check in of the plurality of check ins a single category from the determined one or more categories . For instance the computing system may identify the category based on choosing the highest ranked category from among the one or more categories and or by choosing the category from among the one or more categories to which the most tags are mapped e.g. as described above in connection with . Alternatively or in addition the computing system may analyze information associated with the location to identify the category from among the more than one mapped categories e.g. as described above in connection with . For example the Sports Venue Stadium tag may map to a category labeled Sports Events Venue while the Tourist Attractions tag and the Landmark tag map to a category labeled Visitor Attractions. And the computing system may identify the Sports Events Venue category as a proper category for a Bad News Bears Stadium check in because it is ranked higher than the Visitor Attraction category.

After identifying the single category for each check in the computing system stores data associating each check in of the plurality of check ins in association with the identified category for each check in of the plurality of check ins . The data associated with each check in and the data associating each received check in with its identified category may be stored in one or more databases for further processing and or display e.g. as described above in connection with . For example the computing system stores the Bad News Bear Stadium check in in association with the Sports Events Venue category.

Lastly the computing system outputs for display data representing the plurality of check ins and the respective single category for each check in . For instance the computing system may output the number of locations represented by check ins e.g. as described above in connection with the number of check ins performed at each location and mapped to each category e.g. as described above in connection with the number of unique visitors among the received check ins who visited each location e.g. as described above in connection with the total number of unique visitors represented in each category e.g. as described above in connection with the number of repeat visitors among the received check ins who visited each location e.g. as described above in connection with the total number of unique visitors represented in each category e.g. as described above in connection with and or the percentage of unique visitors at each location and in each category who were also repeat visitors e.g. as described above in connection with .

The techniques described herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The techniques can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device in machine readable storage medium in a computer readable storage device or in computer readable storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps of the techniques can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the techniques by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus of the techniques can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data such as magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

A number of implementations of the techniques have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example although various techniques generally are disclosed herein as being performed externally to an electronic social networking platform in some implementations the techniques disclosed herein may be performed internally by an electronic social networking platform.

Furthermore it should be noted that for situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s current location . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized.

