---

title: Selecting content using a location feature index
abstract: Systems and methods of providing content for display on a computing device via a computer network using a location feature index are provided. A data processing system can receive a request for content from the computing device, and can determine a geographic location of the computing device associated with the request for content. The data processing system can identify a keyword indicating a non-geographic semantic feature of the determined geographic location. The identification can be based on the determined geographic location and from a location feature index that maps geographic areas to keywords that indicate non-geographic semantic features of the geographic areas. The data processing system can select, based on the keyword, a candidate content item for display on the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311416&OS=09311416&RS=09311416
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09311416
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
This application claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 747 592 titled Systems and Methods of Selecting Content Using A Location Feature Index and filed on Dec. 31 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In a networked environment such as the internet entities such as people or companies can provide information for public display on web pages or other documents. The web pages can include text video or audio information provided by the entities via a web page server for display on the internet. Additional content can also be provided by third parties for display on the web pages together with the information provided by the entities. Thus a person viewing a web page can access the information that is the subject of the web page as well as third party content that may appear with the web page.

At least one aspect is directed to a method of providing content for display on a computing device via a computer network. The method can include a data processing system receiving a request for content from the computing device. The data processing system may receive the request via the computer network. The method may include determining a geographic location of the computing device associated with the request for content. The method may include identifying keyword indicating a non geographic semantic feature of the determined geographic location. The identification may be based on the determined geographic location and from a location feature index. A location feature index may map geographic areas to keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features of the geographic areas. The method may include selecting a candidate content item for display on the computing device. The candidate content may be selected based on the keyword.

At least one aspect is directed to a data processing system for providing content for display on a computing device via a computer network. The data processing system can determine a geographic location of the computing device associated with a request for content. The data processing system can to identify a keyword indicating a non geographic semantic feature of the determined geographic location. The data processing system can make the identification based on the determined geographic location and using a location feature index that maps geographic areas to keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features of the geographic areas. The data processing system can select a candidate content item for display on the computing device. The candidate content may be selected based on the keyword.

At least one aspect is directed to a computer readable storage medium having instructions to provide content for display on a computing device via a computer network. The instructions can include instructions to receive a request for content. The instructions can include instructions to determine a geographic location of the computing device associated with the request for content. The instructions can include instructions to identify a keyword indicating a non geographic semantic feature of the determined geographic location. The identification can be based on the determined geographic location and from a location feature index that maps geographic areas to keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features of the geographic areas. The instructions can include instructions to select a candidate content item for display on the computing device. The candidate content item can be selected based on the keyword.

The present disclosure is directed generally to systems and methods of selecting content items such as ads for display on computing devices using a location feature index. The location feature index can map geographic areas to keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features or characteristics of the geographic areas. These keywords can be used by the data processing system to identify content items that can be provided for display on computing devices that are present in the geographic location. The keywords and the content items identified using the keywords need not indicate the geographic area or actual goods or services available within the geographic area. Rather the keywords can indicate a more general characteristic or feature of the geographic area.

For example the data processing system can determine that a geographic location has high end retail clothing stores. From a semantic analysis of this information the data processing systems can identify keywords diamonds luxury car or tropical beach vacation and associate or map these keywords to the geographic area. The data processing system can receive a request for content to display on a computing device in the geographic area e.g. the computing device is in the vicinity of the high end retail clothing stores. Responsive to the request the data processing system can use the tropical beach vacation keyword to select a content item for a luxury tropical resort as a candidate for display on the computing device responsive to the request. In this example the geographic area having high end clothing stores can be unrelated to any tropical location although a user of a computing device e.g. a smartphone walking down a street having high end clothing stores may also be interested in high end luxury vacations. Thus the data processing system can identify a group of keywords for one or more geographic areas based on semantic features or characteristics of those areas and content providers can select content for a type of geographic area e.g. high end retail areas in general rather than focusing on a single area such as one set of latitude and longitude coordinates near a particular clothing store.

In another example the data processing system can identify keywords sunscreen umbrella or shoes based on characteristics of a park such as historical current or predicted climate conditions of the park available shelter in the park or hiking paths available in the park. The location feature index can indicate that these keywords correspond to the geographic area of the park. The data processing system may receive an indication from a content provider that the content provider would like to provide content items to users who are walking in any park as part of a computer network based content item placement campaign. The data processing system may also receive a request for content from a computing device located in a park. In this example the data processing system can use the keywords sunscreen umbrella or shoes to select a content item of the content provider as a candidate for display on the computing device.

The system can include at least one data processing system . The data processing system can include at least one logic device such as a computing device having a processor to communicate via the network for example with the user device the web site operator and at least one content provider . The data processing system can include at least one server. For example the data processing system can include a plurality of servers located in at least one data center. In one implementation the data processing system includes a content placement system having at least one server. The data processing system can also include at least one geographic location module at least one keyword identification module at least one content selection module and at least one database . The geographic location module keyword identification module and content selection module can each include at least one processing unit or other logic device such as programmable logic array engine or module configured to communicate with the database . The geographic location module keyword identification module and content selection module can be separate components a single component or part of the data processing system .

In some implementations the data processing system obtains anonymous computer network activity information associated with a plurality of user devices . A user of a user device can affirmatively authorize the data processing system to obtain network activity information corresponding to the user s user device . For example the data processing system can prompt the user of the user device for consent to obtain one or more types of network activity information such as geographic location information. The identity of the user of the user device can remain anonymous and the user device may be associated with a unique identifier e.g. a cookie .

For situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that certain information about the user is removed when generating parameters e.g. demographic parameters . For example a user s identity may be treated so that no identifying information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

In some implementations the data processing system receives a request for content. The content may include e.g. text characters symbols images video audio or multimedia content. For example the request for content may include a request for an online advertisement article promotion coupon or product description. The data processing system may receive the request from a computing device such as e.g. user device . In some implementations the data processing system receives the request via an application executing on the user device . For example a mobile application executing on a mobile device e.g. smart phone or tablet may make a request for content. In another example a web page may request content from the data processing system responsive to a user of a mobile device visiting the web page e.g. via a mobile device .

In some implementations the request for content includes information that can facilitate content selection. In some implementations the data processing system may request information from the user device to facilitate identifying content or content selection. The data processing system may request or obtain information responsive to receiving a request for content from the user device . The information may include information about displaying the content on the user device e.g. a content slot size or position or available resources of user device to display or otherwise manipulate the content.

In some implementations the data processing system determines a geographic location of the user device associated with the request for content. As shown in the illustrative example of a user device making a request for content may be in a geographic location. The data processing system may determine the geographic location based on e.g. GPS Wi Fi or cell tower triangulation techniques. In some implementations the data processing system may determine a latitude and longitude coordinate and identify a larger geographic area or tile e.g. or comprising the latitude and longitude coordinate. In this example the geographic location may correspond to a latitude or longitude coordinate or the geographic location may correspond to a larger area such as e.g. block which may be adjacent to at least a portion of First Side St. and Main St. In another example the geographic area may correspond to an area that is larger than a block e.g. the data processing system may determine that user devices and which are on First Side St. Second Side St. and Third Side St. are in the same geographic area that corresponds to an area that includes at least a portion of Main St. First Side St. Second Side Street and Third Side St.

In some implementations the request for content received by the data processing system may include geographic location information. Geographic location information may include e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates geographic information system GIS information country state city county town or precinct. In some implementations the data processing system may obtain geographic location information associated with the user device via an application programming interface API that can provide scripted access to geographic location information associated with the user device . For example the geographic API specification may include a specification associated with the World Wide Web Consortium W3C .

In some implementations the geographic location of the user device can be determined via at least one of a global positioning system GPS cell tower triangulation or Wi Fi hotspots. The data processing system may obtain geographic location information associated with at least one user device . Geographic location information may include city county state country or region data for example. In some implementations the data processing system infers or determines geographic location information based on a user s interaction with an information resource. For example the user device may include a global positioning system GPS or the data processing system may determine a geographic location based on an internet protocol IP address. For example the user device may include a GPS sensor or antenna and be configured to determine a GPS location of the user device . In another example the data processing system may determine the geographic location by using information obtained from one or more cell towers to triangulate the location of the user device . For example and in some implementations the geographic location determined based on one cell tower two cell towers or three cell towers may be sufficient for content selection. In some implementations Wi Fi hotpots may facilitate determining a geographic location because Wi Fi hotspots may be stationary and can be used as a landmark. For example the relation of a user device with respect to a Wi Fi hotspot can facilitate determining a geographic location of the user device .

In some implementations the data processing system receives or determines a relatively more precise geographic location e.g. a latitude and longitude coordinate in order to identify a larger geographic area that includes the latitude coordinate and longitude coordinate. For example the larger area may include a geographic tile that includes the relatively more precise geographic location. In another example the geographic area may include a map tile that includes the latitude and longitude coordinate. In some examples the data processing system may receive or obtain the larger less precise geographic area from the user device . For example a mobile application of a smartphone may provide to the data processing system a geographic area or map tile. The geographic area may be any shape or resemble any region that includes a geographic location of the user device and facilitates identifying keywords using a location feature index. For example a location feature index as described further herein may map larger geographic areas to keywords instead of or in addition to mapping relatively more precise latitude and longitude coordinate pairs to keywords.

In some implementations the data processing system identifies a keyword. The data processing system may identify the keyword using or based on the determined geographic location associated with the user device . In some implementations the data processing system may identify the keyword based on the determined geographic location and from a location feature index. In some implementations a location feature index can map geographic areas or locations to keywords that may indicate one or more non geographic semantic features of the determined geographic location. The location feature index may be accessed from a server or stored in database . The geographic areas can be of any granularity or resolution that facilitates content selection using a location feature index. Non geographic semantic features may indicate general characteristics or features of a geographic area rather than indicate a specific geographic area or actual goods or services of a specific geographic area. For example non geographic semantic features may indicate that a place is sunny or warm a park a playground a vacation spot a honeymoon spot or a luxury vacation spot a high end retail area or other semantic characteristic or metric.

In one implementation the data processing system identifies a plurality of keywords based on a feature metric of the geographic area. The feature metric can include at least one of a cost of living metric of the geographic area a retail metric of the geographic area a services metric of the geographic area and online user reviews associated with the geographic area. For example the cost of living metric can be obtained from a database or determined based on e.g. one or more of publicly available real estate information cost of food in the area cost of commodities or real estate tax information. In some implementations the cost of living metric can indicate the cost of living relative to other geographic areas or a normalized cost of living metric. For example the cost of living metric in a metropolitan city may be higher than the cost of living in a rural area.

The retail metric of the geographic area be based on e.g. one or more of the number of retail stores the type of retail stores the size of the retail store or the price of goods sold in the retail stores. For example if the three retail stores on a block sell expensive jewelry expensive clothes and expensive shoes the retail metric may indicate that there are a relatively high number of high end retail stores in the geographic area e.g. a high value . In the other hand if there are no retail stores in a geographic area the retail metric may indicate that that there are no retail stores in a geographic area e.g. a low value .

The services metric of the geographic area can be based on e.g. one or more of the number of service providers in the geographic area type of service providers price of service providers or quality of service providers. Types of service providers can include e.g. consulting legal real estate education communications storage or processing. For example if a geographic area comprises mostly of financial and legal service providers then the services metric may indicate that the geographic area corresponds to a financial district of a city.

The online user reviews metric may indicate what positive negative or neutral feedback associated with a geographic area or an entity of a geographic area. For example the user review metric may indicate whether a retail store or restaurant is looked at favorably by patrons. In another example the user reviews metric may combine the user review information associated with a plurality of retail establishments of an area to generate an overall online review metric for an area. For example retail stores and restaurants of a geographic area may each have a different rating where the combined average rating may indicate an online user review metric for the geographic area.

The data processing system can generate receive or update the location feature index. In some implementations the data processing system generates the location feature index prior to receiving a request for content from a user device . In some implementations the data processing system can update the location feature index before during or after receiving a request for content. For example the data processing system may update the location feature index responsive to the request for content or an interaction associated with content that was provided for display on the user device e.g. a click or conversion of a content item . In some implementations the data processing system may update or modify a location feature index responsive to a user of user device interacting with the displayed content in a desired manner or based on a user not interacting with the displayed content.

Referring to the data processing system can receive semantic information about a geographic location or area to facilitate generating the location feature index. The geographic area . In this example the data processing system may receive semantic information about condos on First Side St. The semantic information about one or more of the condos may include the rental price the sale price the number of bedrooms the number of bathrooms the number of square feet in a unit the year the units were built etc. The data processing system may obtain this information from an online databases or web page via the network . Based on this semantic information the data processing system may identify one or more keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features and include them in the location feature index for that geographic area. For example illustrates a location feature index that includes geographic locations e.g. and mapped to semantic keywords e.g. and . In one implementation while the keywords are mapped to a geographic area e.g. area of they indicate non geographic semantic features such as wedding picnic or jewelry rather than geographic based features such as keywords indicating a particular good or service at a defined geographic location such as a particular coffee shop or sports team located in or near e.g. in the same city as the area .

Continuing with the above example and referring to if user device requests content the data processing system may determine that the geographic location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates of the user device corresponds to a geographic area or in some examples to the more general geographic area . Based on the determined geographic area the data processing system may identify at least one keyword using the location feature index . For example the location feature index may including a mapping of geographic location to keywords of . For example the geographic location can include a beach luxury resort and a spa . Keywords associated with the geographic location may be based on semantic information about the geographic location including e.g. semantic information about beach luxury resort and spa . For example the location feature index may map geographic location to keywords including e.g. resort vacation spot luxury jet ski fine dining or warm as shown in the location feature index . In some implementations the semantic information arises from a non geographic interpretation of the features of the geographic area. For example the keywords resort or vacation spot or jet ski are not bound to any particular geographic location.

The semantic information can indicate various metrics such as a quality of life metric an education metric a population metric a topographical metric or a climate metric. For example the quality of life metric can be based on publicly available real estate information including e.g. real estate prices sale prices assessed values property taxes rental prices foreclosure information property information e.g. square foot number of bedrooms number of bathrooms number of garages lot size or whether there is a pool .

In some implementations the semantic information indicates an education metric based for example on the amount of education attained by individuals in the geographic area including e.g. whether they have high school diplomas associates degrees bachelors degrees masters degrees doctor of philosophy medical degree juris doctor degree for example. In some implementations the education metric may be further based on the type of degrees such as e.g. technical degree liberal arts degree science degree for example. The data processing system may obtain this information from publicly available college graduation metrics or types of employers in an area.

In some implementations the semantic information may indicate a population metric such as e.g. the population density household size or other population related metrics. In some implementations the semantic information may indicate a topographical metric or a climate metric. Topographical metrics may include natural or man made features on the ground such as e.g. elevations landforms whether the geographic area is near a body of water e.g. on or near a lake ocean beach pond swamp marsh etc . Climate metrics may include e.g. current temperature or a historical temperature for a certain time of year season month week or day. Climate metrics may include precipitation information including e.g. amount of rainfall or snow for a given time interval. In some implementations climate metrics may include general weather related information such as e.g. warm hot sunny cloudy windy cold or freezing. For example a vendor that sells high end rain jackets may indicate that they want to display advertisements for their products to users who are walking near a luxury clothing store in the rain or in geographical area during a time of year associated higher than average precipitation. Further to this example if the data processing system determines that a request for content is associated with a geographic location that maps to keywords luxury store raining rainy season or April the data processing system may select the content providers content for display on the user device associated with the request for content.

In some implementations the data processing system selects content e.g. an advertisement for display on the user device . The data processing system may select the content based on the keyword. For example the data processing system can identify the keyword using the location feature index and select a content that is related or associated with the keyword. For example the content may include the identified keyword be synonymous with the keyword or be semantically or topically related to the keyword. In some embodiments the data processing system selects a content item e.g. an ad as a candidate for display. For example the data processing system may provide a candidate content item to an online auction with a plurality of content items where the content item associated with the highest bid e.g. the highest bid price made for content of a content provider or other factors such as the highest quality content item is selected and provided for display on the user device . In some examples the data processing system may select or identify multiple candidate content items based on at least one keyword and further select a content item from the candidates to provide for display on the user device based on relevance factors quality factors click through rate or conversion rate.

Referring to the geographic area includes additional geographic areas e.g. that may have for example streets residential and commercial property retail stores service stores educational buildings recreational areas or lakes. In some implementations the data processing system can obtain information about one or more of these geographic areas. For example at the geographic location the data processing system may identify restaurant office building salon diner pizza restaurant and jewelry store . In some implementations the data processing system can further identify or obtain semantic information about a geographic area or a property within the geographic area. For example the data processing system may obtain semantic information for restaurant within geographic area that includes e.g. menu items menu prices customer reviews type of cuisine seating capacity popularity of the restaurant dress requirements reservation wait time number of years in business or other semantic information that may facilitate the identification or generation of keywords associated with the geographic area. For example if the average menu prices for lunch at restaurant is less than 3 the restaurant does not take reservations there is no dress code and there is take out the data processing system may identify a keyword fast food . In some implementations the data processing system may generate or update a location feature index by mapping the geographic area to keywords fast food lunch or inexpensive.

Further to this example the data processing system may receive additional semantic information about the geographic location such as e.g. semantic information relating to the office building pizza restaurant and diner . For example the data processing system may identify that the office building includes an engineering entity software entity and a financial services entity. Based on this information the data processing system may identify keywords work education busy and employed. In some implementations the data processing system may generate or update a location feature index by further mapping the geographic area to keywords work education busy and employed.

In some implementations the data processing system may map geographic locations to keywords that are directed to a different geographic location. For example semantic information related to luxury jewelry store may map to keywords such as wedding location honeymoon location or luxury vacation spot . For example the data processing system can determine that a request for content was received from a user device located in geographic area and can proceed to select a content item for a luxury resort or spa located in a different geographic area such as e.g. geographic area using the keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features of the geographic area . In this example 

The data processing system may employ one or more techniques to generate a location feature index that maps geographic areas to keywords that indicate non geographic semantic features. For example the data processing system may access historical weather reports to determine an expected climate for a geographic area for a given time of year. In another example the data processing system may access current weather reports via network to determine current weather conditions.

In some implementations the data processing system may employ semantic analysis to identify keywords that map to a geographic area. In some implementations the location feature index may include latitude and longitude coordinates that map to keywords. In some implementations the location feature index may include multiple mappings. For example a first map may map latitude and longitude coordinate pairs to representative latitude and longitude coordinate pairs. A second map may map the representative latitude and longitude coordinate pairs to a set of keywords. Representative latitude and longitude coordinate pairs may include a latitude and longitude coordinate pair that is different than the latitude and longitude coordinate pair but otherwise be similarly associated. For example the representative latitude and longitude coordinate pair may correspond to a local cell tower WiFi hotspot geographic area tile etc. In some implementations the representative latitude and longitude coordinate pair may correspond to a general area within which the user device has been located during a time interval.

The location feature index can map multiple geographic locations may to one or more keywords or a set of keywords. For example one or more keywords in the location feature index can map to multiple geographic locations. Referring to the location feature index includes geographic locations and that both map to keywords . In some examples geographic location may be relatively close to geographic location while in other examples geographic location may be relatively far away from geographic location or unrelated to each other except for one or more common keywords based on related semantic information. For example geographic location includes a beach luxury resort and spa and geographic location includes luxury jewelry condos and auto dealers . Based on semantic information about the geographic locations and the location feature index may map these geographic locations to keywords such as shopping jewelry luxury wedding honeymoon or vacation spot. In this example the data processing system may select similar responsive to content requests received from user device and because the user devices are located in geographic locations and that map to one or more of the same keywords .

Continuing with this example semantic information about high end fashion geographic areas such as Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills Newbury Street in Boston and 5Avenue in New York City may include the same or similar keywords such as high end retail stores high end designers luxury shopping vacation spot or tourist. For example the data processing system may receive a request for content from a user device located at a latitude and longitude coordinate corresponding to a geographic area that includes at least a portion of Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills. The data processing system may identify using a location feature index e.g. the location feature index stored in database or otherwise accessed via network non geographic semantic keywords that map to the geographic location that includes at least a portion of Rodeo Drive where the user device is located. The non geographic semantic keywords may include vacation spot tourist attraction or luxury shopping. The data processing system may select content that is related to one or more keywords vacation spot tourist attraction and luxury shopping. For example the data processing system may select an advertisement that is associated with keywords vacation spot and tourist attraction. In another example the data processing system may select content of a content provider that indicated an interest in displaying content to user devices that are associated with vacation spots that include luxury shopping. Responsive to this indication the data processing system may select a content of the content provider for display on the user device .

In one example a content provider e.g. an advertiser or third party content provider may want to provide their content items for display on user device to users walking in a park who have children. In this example the data processing system can select based on a location feature index that maps geographic locations to non geographic semantic keywords user devices shown in that are in the geographic location . For example the data processing system can identify keywords children park or walk as being relevant to the indicated display preference of the content provider determine that these keywords comprise the set of keywords or determine using the location feature index that the set of non geographic semantic keywords maps to a geographic location . Therefore upon determining that a request for content was received from a user device located within geographic area the data processing system may select the content providers content for display on the user device or as a candidate for display on the user device

In further detail method can include receiving a request for content . In some implementations the request for content can include a request for an advertisement text images multimedia content or articles. In some implementations the request can be sent by a computing device via a network and received by a data processing system. In some implementations the request may include information to facilitate content selection. In some implementations a data processing system may request additional information from a computing device to facilitate content selection.

In some implementations the method can include determining a geographic location of the computing device associated with the request . For example a data processing system may send a request to the computing device for geographic information. In another example the request for content may include geographic information from which method can determine a geographic location. In some implementations method identifies a geographic area corresponding to a geographic location such as a latitude and longitude coordinate cell tower or Wi Fi hot spot location associated with the computing device.

In some implementations the method can include identifying a keyword indicating a non geographic semantic feature of the determined geographic location . For example the keyword may indicate that features of the geographic location include sunny warm and a park at which children play. The method can identify the keywords using a location feature index which maps geographic locations or areas to non geographic semantic keywords. In some implementations multiple geographic areas may map to the same set of keywords or a subset of a set of keywords.

In some implementations the method can include selecting a content item for display on the computing device . For example the method may identify a content item that corresponds to the identified keywords. For example the content item may include text that that matches the identified keywords the content item may include metadata with keywords that match the identified keywords or the content item may include text or keywords that are relevant to the keywords in another way e.g. semantically related root word match topically related etc. . In some implementations the content item may include a candidate content item that is provided to an online bidding auction. One or more candidate content items may receive bids via the online auction where the content associated with the highest bid may be selected for display on the computing device.

The system and its components such as a data processing system may include hardware elements such as one or more processors logic devices or circuits. is an example implementation of a network environment . The system and method can operate in the network environment depicted in . In brief overview the network environment includes one or more clients that can be referred to as local machine s client s client node s client machine s client computer s client device s endpoint s or endpoint node s in communication with one or more servers that can be referred to as server s node or remote machine s via one or more networks . In some implementations a client has the capacity to function as both a client node seeking access to resources provided by a server and as a server providing access to hosted resources for other clients .

Although shows a network between the clients and the servers the clients and the servers may be on the same network . The network can be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. In some implementations there are multiple networks between the clients and the servers . In one of these implementations the network may be a public network a private network or may include combinations of public and private networks.

The network may be any type or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some implementations the network may include a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network may include a bus star or ring network topology. The network may include mobile telephone networks utilizing any protocol or protocols used to communicate among mobile devices including advanced mobile phone protocol AMPS time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communication GSM general packet radio services GPRS or universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS . In some implementations different types of data may be transmitted via different protocols. In other implementations the same types of data may be transmitted via different protocols.

In some implementations the system may include multiple logically grouped servers . In one of these implementations the logical group of servers may be referred to as a server farm or a machine farm . In another of these implementations the servers may be geographically dispersed. In other implementations a machine farm may be administered as a single entity. In still other implementations the machine farm includes a plurality of machine farms . The servers within each machine farm can be heterogeneous one or more of the servers or machines can operate according to one type of operating system platform.

In one implementation servers in the machine farm may be stored in high density rack systems along with associated storage systems and located in an enterprise data center. In this implementation consolidating the servers in this way may improve system manageability data security the physical security of the system and system performance by locating servers and high performance storage systems on localized high performance networks. Centralizing the servers and storage systems and coupling them with advanced system management tools allows more efficient use of server resources.

The servers of each machine farm do not need to be physically proximate to another server in the same machine farm . Thus the group of servers logically grouped as a machine farm may be interconnected using a wide area network WAN connection or a metropolitan area network MAN connection. For example a machine farm may include servers physically located in different continents or different regions of a continent country state city campus or room. Data transmission speeds between servers in the machine farm can be increased if the servers are connected using a local area network LAN connection or some form of direct connection. Additionally a heterogeneous machine farm may include one or more servers operating according to a type of operating system while one or more other servers execute one or more types of hypervisors rather than operating systems. In these implementations hypervisors may be used to emulate virtual hardware partition physical hardware virtualize physical hardware and execute virtual machines that provide access to computing environments.

Management of the machine farm may be de centralized. For example one or more servers may comprise components subsystems and circuits to support one or more management services for the machine farm . In one of these implementations one or more servers provide functionality for management of dynamic data including techniques for handling failover data replication and increasing the robustness of the machine farm . Each server may communicate with a persistent store and in some implementations with a dynamic store.

Server may include a file server application server web server proxy server appliance network appliance gateway gateway gateway server virtualization server deployment server secure sockets layer virtual private network SSL VPN server or firewall. In one implementation the server may be referred to as a remote machine or a node.

The client and server may be deployed as or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein.

The computing system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a liquid crystal display or active matrix display for displaying information to a user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . In another implementation the input device has a touch screen display . The input device can include a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to various implementations the processes described herein can be implemented by the computing system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the computing system to perform the illustrative processes described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to effect illustrative implementations. Thus implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although an example computing system has been described in implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in other types of digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more circuits of computer program instructions encoded on one or more computer storage media for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus or computing device encompasses various apparatuses devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a circuit component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more circuits sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

References to or may be construed as inclusive so that any terms described using or may indicate any of a single more than one and all of the described terms.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

