---

title: Document information management system
abstract: A document information management system in which a search-engine-compatible interface unit makes a word in a document displayed on the screen to be specified, transfers the specified word to a search engine as a keyword to be used in the search engine, receives a search result from the search engine, and displays the search result on the screen, while a browser-compatible interface unit performs a search (a keyword search and/or global search) by using the keyword transferred from a browser and transfers a search result to the browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09111008&OS=09111008&RS=09111008
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 09111008
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130911
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 400 229 filed Apr. 10 2006 which is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 668 973 filed Sep. 24 2003 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 126 588 filed Apr. 22 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 658 408 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 305 473 filed May 6 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 381 593 and claims priority to Japanese Application Nos. 10 126515 filed May 8 1998 and 10 231845 filed Aug. 18 1998. The entire contents of the above identified applications and patents are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a document information management system enabling search of documents only by specifying an arbitrary word as a keyword in a hypertext or a non hypertext document displayed on a screen.

Conventionally a form of a document commonly used in the world has generally been a paper document but progress of the Internet or intranet has given a birth to a hypertext as an electronic document which can compete for the first time against the paper document. This hypertext document is a document written in HTML in a narrow sense and includes all the electronic documents which can link between documents such as PDF documents by Adbe and a portion of an SGML document by CALS namely between a button comprising a particular word a text a symbol or graphics and a document in a broad sense.

Specifically the hypertext is a collection of linked texts electronified documents and is the basic concepts for multimedia software with which texts hierarchically related to each other can simultaneously be referred from multiple sites to in an arbitrary order through a link structure. Therefore each document of this hypertext includes information for forming the link structure namely information as a hypertext in addition to information visually provided to users.

By the way in the field of computer technology a search engine is provided as a means of searching for a document linked to a particular word keyword from vast number of undefined documents. It should be noted that in the conventional type of search engine a keyword is not entered in a document but it is entered in a particular dialog box.

However although there are many advantages in the hypertext a jump can be made only to a linked page document and so when a user wants to have information related to any word not linked to some other documents it is necessary to actuate a search engine or the like and perform a search a keyword search or a global search which makes the operation complicated and also linkage among documents is not easy therefore it is not always easy to use the hypertext.

In the conventional type of hypertext an operation with one button can be linked only to one document page which does not allow a plurality of documents to be referred to with one button. Especially the Intranet documents are highly specialized so that there may exist a plurality of information that the user wants to refer to with one button hence convenience of use and workability are not sufficient for the situation.

In the conventional type of search engine a user interface is of inferior performance as compared to a hypertext and the operating method is also different and so insufficient workability and convenience are found in actuation of a search engine and performance of a search during operation of the hypertext. Especially in a browser function for displaying and operating a hypertext on a screen it is general to operate only with a pointing device such as a mouse so that entry of a keyword into a dialog box of the search engine through a keyboard disturbs the flow of work.

It is an object of the present invention to get for the purpose of solving the problems enhanced convenience in document information management as well as in a document search improved operability of a keyword search and further promoted workability when a search is performed through a hypertext by performing a search a keyword search and or a global search with any word which is not linked to other documents as a keyword through a clicking operation thereon and enabling jumping from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched like that with a button in a hypertext.

In the document information management system according to the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit makes a word in a document displayed on the screen to be specified transfers the specified word to a search engine as a keyword to be used in the search engine receives a search result from the search engine and displays the search result on the screen. On the other hand a browser compatible interface unit performs a search by using the keyword transferred from a browser and transfers a search result to the browser. Thus by performing a search a keyword search and or a global search with a word which is not liked to any document as a keyword through a clicking operation on the word and enabling jumping from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched like that with a button of a hypertext it is possible to improve convenience in document information management as well as in a document search.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit makes a word in a document displayed on the screen to be specified actuates a search engine and make the engine perform a search with the specified word as a keyword to be used in the search engine receives a search result from the search engine and displays the result on the screen. Thus by performing a search with a word which is not liked to any document as a keyword through a clicking operation on the word and enabling jumping from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched like that with a button of a hypertext it is possible to improve convenience in document information management as well as in a document search.

Other objects and features of this invention will become apparent from the following description with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Detailed description is made hereinafter for the document information management system according to the present invention in the order of Embodiment 1 to Embodiment 7 with reference to the accompanied drawings.

The document information management system according to Embodiment 1 is a system for getting enhanced convenience in document information management as well as in a document search improved operability of a search and further promoted workability when a search is performed through a hypertext by using a document displayed on the screen of a browser as a front end of a search engine and displaying a search result by the search engine on the screen of the browser.

It should be noted that the browser has a search engine compatible interface unit for specifying a word in a document displayed on the screen transferring the specified word to the search engine as a keyword to be used in the search engine receiving a search result from the search engine and displaying the search result on the screen. Herein the browser receives a list for a pop up menu from the search engine browser compatible interface unit as a search result by the search keyword search or and global search and displays the pop up menu in a space adjacent to the specified word.

The search engine has a browser compatible interface unit for performing a search by using the keyword transferred from the browser to be precise search engine compatible interface unit and transferring a search result to the browser to be precise search engine compatible interface unit . Herein the search engine prepares a list for a pop up menu and transfers the list to the search engine compatible interface unit .

As the browser a terminal unit such as a personal computer with built in application software for realizing a browser function can be used. This terminal unit has at least a display for displaying a document thereon a pointing device such as a mouse for operating the screen and a communication unit for carrying out communications through a network Net. Of course the search engine compatible interface unit is incorporated in the terminal unit as one function of application software for realizing a browser function. A number of terminal units is not particularly specified and so it is needless to say that a plurality of terminal units can be provided on the network Net as shown in the figure.

As the search engine a terminal unit such as a personal computer with built in application software for realizing a search engine function can be used. This terminal unit is connected to the network Net and a plurality of units may be provided. One terminal unit can also be shared for the terminal unit as the browser and the terminal unit as the search engine . More specifically the application software for realizing the search engine function may be incorporated in the terminal unit with the built in application software for realizing the browser function. Of course the browser compatible interface unit is incorporated in the terminal unit together with the search engine as one function of application software for realizing a browser function.

Description is made for the operation based on the configuration described above with reference to . shows a schematic flow chart of the document information management system according to Embodiment 1. In Embodiment 1 when a keyword is inputted through the browser the browser compatible interface unit actuates the search engine and a search with the keyword is started.

At first the browser displays a document on the screen S . The search engine compatible interface unit starts its operation in this state.

When a word is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit recognizes the word as a keyword S transfers the keyword to the search engine S and displays the recognized keyword S . Identification specification of a word herein is performed for example by clicking the second mouse button in order to differentiate the above processing from processing of the hypertext document. The keyword is provided in a reverse video or is underlined so that it can be discriminated from other words.

On the other hand when the browser compatible interface unit of the search engine receives a keyword from the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser it actuates the search engine and sets the keyword in a keyword entry item of the search engine S . Herein the browser compatible interface unit although it is a part of the application for the search engine always stays resident on the terminal unit and also plays a role as a trigger to actuate the main system of the search engine when the keyword is transferred from the search engine .

When the keyword is set in step S the search engine executes a search operation with the set keyword S . It should be noted that the search with the keyword in this case is performed based on the assumption that an object to be searched by the search engine the database to be searched is previously set and specified. Therefore a search can be performed across all the databases connected to the network Net as objects to be searched through setting or specification thereof and can also be performed across only a particular database as an object to be searched. Setting and specification of the database as an object to be searched may be carried out with the browser although it is not mentioned herein.

Then the browser compatible interface unit prepares a list for a pop up menu from a search result with the keyword S and transfers the prepared list to the browser S . It should be noted that document names having been searched and URLs addresses for those documents are described on the list.

When the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser receives a list from the browser compatible interface unit it develops the list to a hypertext and overwrites displays the list in a space adjacent to the keyword of the original document as a pop up menu S . It should be noted that shows a display example of a pop up menu appearing on the screen of the browser .

When the user identifies a desired document out of the pop up menu as indicated by the cursor in through the mouse operation the search engine compatible interface unit notifies the URL identification of the document of the corresponding document described on the list to the browser S . The browser accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored therein according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document S .

The database having received the request from the browser to transfer the source code transfers the source code of the corresponding document to the browser S .

The browser after receiving the source code develops the code to a hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document and displays either of the documents on the screen S .

In accordance with Embodiment 1 as described above a search is performed by using a word which is not linked to other documents as a keyword by clicking on the word and it is possible to jump from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched which is just like the operation with a button of a hypertext. Therefore it is possible to enhance convenience in document information management as well as in a document search improve operability of a keyword search and further promote workability when a search is performed through a hypertext. In other words it is possible to use a document displayed on the screen of a browser as a front end of the search engine and display a search result by the search engine on the screen of the browser .

It should be noted that the browser compatible interface unit can be realized by rewriting API Application Programming Interface of the existing search engine . Also a search engine compatible interface unit of the browser can be realized by being added to the existing browser as plug in software.

The document information management system according to Embodiment 2 is an example having the same effect as that of Embodiment 1 in which the existing search engine not having a browser compatible interface unit is used. Namely in the document information management system according to Embodiment 1 the browser has the search engine compatible interface unit and the search engine has the browser compatible interface unit through which the document appearing on the screen of the browser is usable as a front end of the search engine but in Embodiment 2 by expanding the function of the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser the existing search engine without a browser compatible interface unit incorporated therein can be used.

It should be noted that an example of basic hardware configuration is the same as that in Embodiment 1 so that description is made herein only for the different sections.

It should be noted that the browser has a search engine compatible interface unit for specifying a word in a document displayed on the screen actuating the search engine to make the engine perform a search with the specified word as a keyword to be used in the search engine receiving a result of the search from the search engine and displaying the search result on the screen.

Description is made for the operation based on the configuration described above with reference to . shows a schematic flow chart of the document information management system according to Embodiment 2. In Embodiment 2 when receiving a keyword the browser actuates the search engine and a search with the keyword is started.

At first the browser displays a document on the screen S . The search engine compatible interface unit starts its operation in this state.

When a word is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit recognizes the word as a keyword S and actuates the search engine S . Herein the actuated search engine transfers a screen for entering a keyword to the search engine compatible interface unit as processing executable on the system S .

Even if the search engine compatible interface unit receives the keyword entering screen from the search engine it does not display this screen namely the processing of displaying the screen is skipped but transfers the keyword recognized in step S to the search engine S and displays the recognized keyword on the screen S . Identification specification of a word herein is performed for example by clicking the second mouse button in order to differentiate the above processing from processing of the hypertext document. The keyword is provided in a reverse video or is underlined so that it can be discriminated from other words.

On the other hand when the search engine receives a keyword from the search engine compatible interface unit it performs the processing of a search with the received keyword S . It should be noted that the search with the keyword in this case is performed based on the assumption that an object to be searched by the search engine the database is previously set and specified. Therefore a search can be performed across all the databases connected to the network Net as objects to be searched through setting or specification thereof and can also be performed across only a particular database as an object to be searched. Setting and specification of the database as an object to be searched may be carried out with the browser although it is not mentioned herein.

Then the search engine transfers a result of the search to the search engine compatible interface unit S .

While the search engine compatible interface unit cuts out when receiving the keyword search result the button from the search result to prepare a list for a pop up menu S develops the list to a hypertext and overwrites displays the list in a space adjacent to the keyword of the original document as a pop up menu S .

When the user identifies a desired document out of the pop up menu through the mouse operation the search engine compatible interface unit notifies the URL identification of the document of the corresponding document described on the list to the browser S . The browser accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored therein according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document S .

The database having received the request from the browser to transfer the source code transfers the source code of the corresponding document to the browser S .

When the browser receives the source code it develops the code to a hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document and displays either of the documents on the screen S .

In accordance with Embodiment 2 as described above in addition to the same effect as that in Embodiment 1 the existing search engine can be used as it is which makes it easy to apply the invention to the existing system and the convenience of use can further be improved.

In the document information management system according to Embodiment 3 a document file for a document displayed on the screen and used for specifying a keyword by the browser has a word table prepared by previously cutting out words included in the document file. The search engine compatible interface unit selects in the document displayed on the screen a plurality of expanded character strings each obtained by adding characters or character strings before and behind a character pointed by a cursor thereto compares the selected strings to the words in the word table added to the document to evaluate the strings and identifies an optimal word which can be assumed as the one being pointed by the cursor as a keyword to be used in the search engine.

The document information management system according to the present invention requires a function of identifying a word specified in the browser search engine compatible interface unit but this function of identifying a word can be realized in various methods so that a method is not particularly defined in Embodiment 1 and Embodiment 2. Therefore in Embodiment 3 the function of identifying a word preferable to the document information management system is explained concretely.

It should be noted that the basic configuration and the operation thereof are the same as those in Embodiment 1 so that detailed description is made herein only for the different sections.

By the way it is not easy to identify a word in a document such as the one written in Japanese. In such a case the method of identifying a word includes a method of preparing a particular document structure previously produced according to a use and a method of using an existing document structure. Herein the document structure for the browser of the document information management system according to the present invention makes it easy to identify a word by using a document a hypertext document or a non hypertext document having a word table prepared by previously cutting out words included in a document file.

Added to a document file handled in the document information management system according to Embodiment 3 is a word table prepared by previously cutting out words in a document file. When a global search is to be performed across any document in Japanese Chinese or Korean language as an object to be searched an index file such as a character element table and a word table is added to the document to be searched. Therefore all of the documents handled in the system has a word table added thereto respectively and this word table functions as a word table used for identifying a word in the document on the screen of the browser and functions as an index file used for a global search in the document to be searched.

The preparation of the word table will be carried out as follows with terminal units and a Web server connected to the network Net.

At first words are cut out of a document registered anew by using a technique such as morpheme analysis at the point of time when a prepared document is registered or during the time zone such as night time when the document information management system is not used then a word table is prepared with the cut out words and the word table is added to the original document file and the rewritten data is registered.

The processing as described above is always carried out which allows word tables to be added to all the document files existing in the document information management system according to Embodiment 3.

Description is made for the operation based on the configuration described above with reference to . shows a schematic flow chart of the document information management system according to Embodiment 3. In Embodiment 3 when a keyword is identified by the browser the browser compatible interface unit actuates the search engine and a search with the keyword is started.

At first the browser displays a document on the screen S . The search engine compatible interface unit starts its operation in this state.

When a character is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit cuts out a character string obtained by adding some characters before and after the character thereto adjacent character string S compares the cut out character string to the word table S cuts out the character string coincident with any word in the word table as a word and identifies the word S .

Herein a concrete example of processing in steps S to S is shown with reference to . As shown in for example a cursor is moved to an arbitrary character herein a character A in the word MARKED in the document displayed on the screen a mouse button is clicked and the character character A at the position of the cursor is specified. The character at the position of the cursor specified as described above is identified as an identified character A in step S Refer to . It should be noted that identification of a word herein is performed for example by clicking the second mouse button in order to differentiate the above processing from processing of the hypertext document.

Then a character string obtained by adding some characters before and after the identified character thereto adjacent character string is cut out. It is conceivable that there are various methods as the method of cutting out a character but there is the simplest one in which punctuation marks before and after an identified character are decided as identifiers and a character string between the punctuation marks can be cut out as an adjacent character string. In this case the adjacent character string cut out in step S is as follows when a plurality of buttons are marked a plurality of pages are outputted onto the display or to the printer. as indicated by the reference numeral A in .

Then the adjacent character string is compared with the words in the word table and the character string coincident with any word in the word table is cut out as a word and the word is identified. This identification of a word can be carried out as follows.

1 A character string MA obtained by adding one character before the specified character A is decided as a temporary word and comparison is made as to whether there is any word coinciding with this temporary word in the word table or not and when it is determined that there is a coinciding word in the word table the temporary word is identified as a word.

2 When it is determined that there is no coinciding word in the word table a character string AR obtained by adding one character behind the specified character A is decided as a temporary word and comparison is made as to whether there is any word coinciding with this temporary word in the word table or not and when it is determined that there is the coinciding word the temporary word is identified as a word.

3 When it is determined that there is no coinciding word therein a character string MAR obtained by adding one character before and after the specified character A is decided as a temporary word and comparison is made as to whether there is any word coinciding with this temporary word in the word table or not and when it is determined that there is the coincident word therein the temporary word is identified as a word.

Thereafter and on characters are added in the same manner as described above and the processing is repeated until the cut out character string is coincident with any word in the word table or until the cut out character string becomes the same as the adjacent character string .

Herein a word MARK is identified as indicated by the reference numeral A in during the identification of a word in step S.

In English language the words in a sentence are separated by a space so that a character string sandwiched between spaces can without difficulty be considered as a word. However in languages like Japanese Chinese or Korean words in a sentence are not separated by space as in English. Therefore in the documents written in these languages it is difficult to decide where a word starts and where it ends in a sentence. In the above described method a character is added before or behind a specified character so that a stage is reached when a word having a meaning is formed and the word coincides with a word in the word table. Though an English language document is shown in for simplification in explanation this method is more effective for extracting a word from the documents written in Japanese Chinese or Korean languages.

The identified word MARK is recognized as a keyword in step S of and the keyword is transferred to the search engine . The recognized keyword is also displayed on the screen in step S. shows an example of display of a keyword. The keyword is provided in a reverse video or is underlined so that it can be distinguished from other words.

On the other hand when the browser compatible interface unit of the search engine receives the keyword from the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser it actuates the search engine and sets the keyword in a keyword entry item of the search engine S . Herein the browser compatible interface unit although it is a part of the application for the search engine always stays resident on the terminal unit and also plays a role as a trigger to actuate the main system of the search engine when the keyword is transferred from the search engine .

When the keyword is set in step S the search engine executes a search operation with the set keyword S .

Then the browser compatible interface unit prepares a list for a pop up menu from a search result with the keyword S and transfers the prepared list to the browser S . It should be noted that document names having been searched and URLs addresses for those documents are described in this list.

When the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser receives a list from the browser compatible interface unit it develops the list to a hypertext and overwrites displays the list in a space adjacent to the keyword of the original document as a pop up menu S .

When the user identifies a desired document out of the pop up menu through the mouse operation the search engine compatible interface unit notifies the URL identification of the document of the corresponding document described in the list to the browser S . The browser accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored therein according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document S .

The database having received the request from the browser to transfer the source code transfers the source code of the corresponding document to the browser S .

When the browser receives the source code it develops the code to a hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document and displays either of the documents on the screen S .

In accordance with Embodiment 3 as described above in addition to the same effect as that in Embodiment 1 a document file has a word table prepared by previously cutting out words included in the document file and the search engine compatible interface unit selects in the document displayed on the screen a plurality of expanded character strings each obtained by adding characters or character strings before and after a character pointed by a cursor thereto compares the selected strings to the words in the word table to evaluate the strings and identifies an optimal word which can be assumed as the one being pointed by the cursor as a keyword to be used in the search engine therefore a word as a keyword can accurately and efficiently be identified.

The document information management system according to Embodiment 4 concretely shows another example of a function for identifying a word preferable to the document information management system according to the present invention. It should be noted that the basic configuration and the operation thereof are the same as those in Embodiment 1 so that detailed description is made herein only for the different sections.

In the document information management system according to Embodiment 4 a hypertext document handled in the system has a dummy button obtained by previously cutting out a word included in the document and setting a target for linking the word thereto as particular address information for responding to actuation of the search engine provided therein. Further the search engine compatible interface unit identifies when the dummy button is pointed by the cursor a word corresponding to the dummy button as a keyword to be used in the search engine and also actuates the search engine according to the URL for the dummy button.

Thus the hypertext document handled in Embodiment 4 has a previously set dummy button. It should be noted that any word having been set as an ordinary button in a hypertext document is not set as a dummy button but all the main words other than the button therein are set as dummy buttons. A linked URL of this dummy button is set in the search engine or in a common particular URL.

The setting and preparation of this dummy button is carried out as follows with terminal units and the Web server connected to a network Net. At first a word is cut out of a document registered anew by using a technique such as morpheme analysis at the point of time when a prepared document is registered or during the time zone such as night time when the document information management system is not used then the cut out word is identified as a dummy button the linked URL thereof is set the dummy button is added to the original document file and the rewritten data is registered.

The processing as described above is always carried out which allows dummy buttons to be added to all the hypertext documents existing in the document information management system according to Embodiment 4.

Description is made for the operation based on the configuration described above with reference to . FIG. shows a schematic flow chart of the document information management system according to Embodiment 4. In Embodiment 4 when a dummy button is identified by the browser the browser compatible interface unit actuates the search engine and a search with the keyword is started.

At first the browser displays a document on the screen S . The search engine compatible interface unit starts its operation in this state.

When a dummy button is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit accesses to the linked URL set in the dummy button S transfers the character string word for the dummy button to the linked location as a keyword S and displays the identified dummy button keyword on the screen S . It should be noted that a keyword is provided in a reverse video or is underlined so that it can be distinguished from the button and other words in a hypertext.

On the other hand when the access is made from the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser in step S the browser compatible interface unit of the search engine actuates the search engine S recognizes the keyword when it receives the keyword from the search engine compatible interface unit in step S and sets the keyword in a keyword entry item of the search engine S . Herein the browser compatible interface unit although it is a part of the application for the search engine always stays resident on the terminal unit and also plays a role as a trigger to actuate the main system of the search engine when the keyword is transferred from the search engine .

When the keyword is set in step S the search engine executes a search operation with the set keyword S .

Then the browser compatible interface unit prepares a list for a pop up menu from a search result with the keyword S and transfers the prepared list to the browser S . It should be noted that document names having been searched and URLs addresses for those documents are described in this list.

When the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser receives a list from the browser compatible interface unit it develops the list to a hypertext and overwrites displays the list in a space adjacent to the keyword of the original document as a pop up menu S .

When the user identifies a desired document out of the pop up menu through the mouse operation the search engine compatible interface unit notifies the URL identification of the document of the corresponding document described in the list to the browser S . The browser accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored therein according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document S .

The database having received the request from the browser to transfer the source code transfers the source code of the corresponding document to the browser S .

When the browser receives the source code it develops the code to a hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document and displays either of the documents on the screen S .

In accordance with Embodiment 4 as described above in addition to the same effect as that in Embodiment 1 a hypertext document has a dummy button obtained by previously cutting out a word included in the document and setting the linked address of the word as particular address information URL for responding to actuation of the search engine therefore a word as a keyword can efficiently be identified and also a search engine can easily be actuated.

Embodiment 5 shows another example of a function for identifying a word preferable to the document information management system according to the present invention and a search engine compatible interface unit cuts out in a document displayed on the screen a character string from a header character to an end character indicated by the cursor as a word and identifies the cut out word as a keyword to be used in the search engine. It should be noted that the basic configuration and the operation thereof are the same as those in Embodiment 1 so that description is made herein only for a method of identifying a word by the search engine compatible interface unit .

More specifically a method of clicking ON a mouse button at the first position and clicking OFF the mouse button at the second position and a method of clicking the mouse button at the first position and again clicking the mouse button at the second position may be used. Also identification of a word is performed for example by clicking the second mouse button in order to differentiate the above processing from processing of the hypertext document. Further the identified word is provided in a reverse video or is underlined.

In accordance with Embodiment 5 as described above there is no need to have a particular document structure therefore an existing hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document can be used as it is. In addition a word as a keyword can efficiently be identified.

In the document information management system according to Embodiment 6 the search engine compatible interface unit cuts out in the document displayed on the screen an optimal word through evaluation of an expanded character string obtained by adding characters or character strings before and behind a character pointed by a cursor thereto by using a word cut out technique such as morpheme analysis and identifies the cut out word as a keyword to be used in the search engine.

It should be noted that the basic configuration and the operation thereof are the same as the document information management system according to Embodiment 3 so that description is made herein only for the different sections.

When a character is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit cuts out a character string obtained by adding some characters before and after the character thereto adjacent character string S cuts out a word through morpheme analysis of the cut out character string for evaluation S and identifies an optimal word S .

Herein the adjacent character string cut out in step S is as follows when a plurality of buttons are marked a plurality of pages are outputted onto the display or to the printer. as indicated by the reference numeral A in . When this adjacent character string is subjected to the morpheme analysis the word MARK can be identified as indicated by the reference numeral A in .

In accordance with Embodiment 5 as described above the search engine compatible interface unit cuts out an optimal word through evaluation of a character string by using a word cut out technique such as morpheme analysis and identifies the cut out word as a keyword to be used in the search engine therefore a word as a keyword can accurately and efficiently be identified.

The document information management system according to Embodiment 7 enables entry of search criteria and output criteria much more as compared to those in Embodiment 1 to Embodiment 6. It should be noted that the basic configuration is the same as that of Embodiment 1 so that description is made herein only for the different sections.

In the document information management system according to Embodiment 7 the search engine compatible interface unit displays a menu for specifying search criteria and output criteria for the search engine in a space adjacent to the specified word and performs a search and output according to the specified word as well as to the menu items specified by the cursor.

Description is made for the operation based on the configuration described above with reference to . shows a schematic flow chart of the document information management system according to Embodiment 7. In Embodiment 7 when a keyword is identified by the browser the browser compatible interface unit actuates the search engine and a search with the keyword is started.

At first the browser displays a document on the screen S . The search engine compatible interface unit starts its operation in this state.

When a word is identified specified through a mouse operation of the terminal unit S the search engine compatible interface unit recognizes the word as a keyword S and displays the recognized keyword on the screen S .

Then a pop up menu for specifying search criteria as well as output criteria is overwritten and displayed adjacent to the recognized keyword S . More specifically as shown in when the keyword for example LINKED is displayed the pop up menu for the search criteria as well as output criteria is displayed adjacent to the corresponding keyword. By clicking on a desired character on this pop up menu not shown the corresponding item can be selected. In the search criteria it is possible to specify a category and a type of DB database to be searched and in the output criteria it is possible to specify output of related information and data for the related information and also specify a target to be outputted of data a device to which the data is outputted .

When the search criteria and output criteria are identified through the mouse operation described later in step S the search engine compatible interface unit transfers the recognized keyword and the identified search criteria to the search engine S .

On the other hand when the browser compatible interface unit of the search engine receives a keyword from the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser it actuates the search engine and sets the keyword for the search engine and the search criteria as well as output criteria therein S . Herein the browser compatible interface unit although it is a part of the application for the search engine always stays resident on the terminal unit and also plays a role as a trigger to actuate the main system of the search engine when the keyword is transferred from the search engine .

When the keyword and the search criteria as well as output criteria are set in step S the search engine executes a search operation with the set keyword and search criteria as well as output criteria S .

Then the browser compatible interface unit determines whether output of data for related information is specified as an output criterion or not S . Herein when it is determined that the output of data for related information is set the browser compatible interface unit prepares a list for a pop up menu from a keyword search result S and transfers the prepared list to the browser S . When it is determined that the output of data for related information is not set the browser compatible interface unit transfers only the URL for the related information to the browser S .

When the search engine compatible interface unit of the browser receives a list from the browser compatible interface unit it develops the list to a hypertext and overwrites displays the list in a space adjacent to the keyword of the original document as a pop up menu S .

When the user identifies a desired document out of the pop up menu through the mouse operation the search engine compatible interface unit notifies the URL identification of the document of the corresponding document described in the list to the browser S . The browser accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored therein according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document S . Similarly when the browser receives the URL for the related information from the browser compatible interface unit it accesses the database Web server with a document in the linked address stored there in according to the URL and requests the database to transfer the source code of the corresponding document.

The database having received the request from the browser to transfer the source code transfers the source code of the corresponding document to the browser S .

When the browser receives the source code it develops the code to a hypertext document or a non hypertext document application document and displays either of the documents on the screen S .

Next description is made more specifically for a method of specifying identifying search criteria as well as output criteria through a mouse operation with reference to to .

Specification of the search criteria as well as output criteria is performed for example by clicking the second mouse button in order to differentiate the above processing from processing of the hypertext document. The specified word is provided in a reverse video or is underlined.

As the search criteria a simple search equation can be used. For example OR search does not require a search equation while an AND search is performed through the operation described below. At first it is assumed as shown in that the criteria indicated by the pop up menu are set for the keyword and the criteria default indicated by the pop up menu are set for the keyword . In this status the cursor is pointed to the keyword having been specified and the second mouse button is clicked ON and the cursor is moved to the keyword which is not specified yet and the second mouse button is clicked OFF and then an AND sign is generated over the keyword to the keyword . At this point of time the same contents as those of the pop up menu are displayed as a pop up menu . It should be noted that only the pop up menu may be displayed for the AND search.

As some other method the cursor is pointed to the keyword having been specified and the second mouse button is clicked ON and the cursor is moved to the keyword which is not specified yet and the second mouse button is clicked OFF and then the keyword is moved to the position of the keyword and automatically returned to the original position as soon as the second mouse button is clicked OFF drag drop and the AND sign is generated over the keyword to the keyword . At this point of time the same contents as those of the pop up menu are displayed as the pop up menu .

Some other search criteria as well as output criteria are also specified by clicking thereon. For example as shown in Related information DB2 Category C Display is specified in the pop up menu of the AND search for the keyword and keyword . This specification indicates AND of the two keywords is searched in the category C of the DB2 and the data for related information is outputted to the display during its specification . The specified search criteria as well as output criteria is displayed like the pop up menu for the keyword . It should be noted that the pop up menu indicates One keyword is searched in the category A of the database DB1 and the related information is outputted to the printer 1 after its specification .

When the contents of a pop up menu search criteria and output criteria having been specified once is to be corrected the cursor is pointed to the pop up menu having been specified and the second mouse button is clicked and then the pop up menu is displayed again on which specification can be carried out again.

Then as shown in when the cursor is pointed to the EXECUTE button on the screen and the second mouse button is clicked execution of a search is instructed and the criteria therefor are identified in step S of .

It should be noted that the search criteria and output criteria shown in to are set as required therefore items are not limited to the items described above. It is not always necessary to use all the items described above. Namely only items required for each document information management system discretely constructed may be used.

In accordance with Embodiment 5 as described above in addition to the same effect as that in Embodiment 1 the search engine compatible interface unit displays a menu for specifying search criteria and output criteria for the search engine in a space adjacent to a specified word and performs a search and output according to the specified word as well as to the menu items specified by the cursor so that workability and convenience for the user can further be improved.

As described above in the document information management system according to the present invention the search engine compatible interface unit makes a word in a document displayed on the screen to be specified transfers the specified word to a search engine as a keyword to be used in the search engine receives a search result from the search engine and displays the search result on the screen and the browser compatible interface unit performs a search by using the keyword transferred from a browser and transfers a search result to the browser so that by performing a search a keyword search and or a global search with a word which is not liked to any document as a keyword through a clicking operation on the word and enabling jumping from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched like that with a button of a hypertext it is possible to improve convenience in document information management as well as in a document search operability of a keyword search and further workability when a search is performed through a hypertext.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a list for a pop up menu is prepared from a keyword search result and the pop up menu is displayed on the screen so that workability and convenience for the user can further be improved.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit makes a word in a document displayed on the screen to be specified actuates a search engine and make the engine perform a search with the specified word as a keyword to be used in the search engine receives a search result from the search engine and displays the result on the screen so that by performing a search with a word which is not liked to any document as a keyword through a clicking operation on the word and enabling jumping from the clicked word to a page as an object to be searched like that with a button of a hypertext it is possible to improve convenience in document information management as well as in a document search operability of a keyword search and further workability when a search is performed through a hypertext.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a document file has a word table prepared by previously cutting out words included in the document file so that a word as a keyword can efficiently be identified.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a hypertext document has a dummy button obtained by previously cutting out a word included in the document and setting a linked target of the word as a particular address information for responding to actuation of the search engine so that a word as a keyword can efficiently be identified and also a search engine can easily be actuated.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit cuts out in the document displayed on the screen a character string from a header character to an end character pointed by a cursor as a word and identifies the cut out word as a keyword to be used in the search engine so that a word as a keyword can efficiently be identified.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit evaluates in the document displayed on the screen an expanded character string obtained by adding characters or character strings before and after a character pointed by a cursor thereto based on a word cut out technology such as morpheme analysis cuts out an optimal word and identifies the cut out word as a keyword to be used in the search engine so that a word as a keyword can accurately and efficiently be identified.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a document file has a word table prepared by previously cutting out words included in the document file and a search engine compatible interface unit selects in the document displayed on the screen a plurality of expanded character strings each obtained by adding characters or character strings before and behind a character pointed by a cursor thereto compares the selected strings to the words in the word table to evaluate the strings and identifies an optimal word as if the word is pointed by the cursor as a keyword to be used in the search engine so that a word as a keyword can accurately and efficiently be identified.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a hypertext document has a dummy button obtained by previously evaluating a word included in the document based on a word cut out technology such as morpheme analysis cutting out the word and setting a linked target of the word as a particular URL for responding to actuation of a search engine and a search engine compatible interface unit identifies when the dummy button is pointed by the cursor a word corresponding to the dummy button as a keyword to be used in the search engine and also actuates the search engine according to the URL for the dummy button so that a word as a keyword can accurately and efficiently be identified and also a search engine can easily be actuated.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention a search engine compatible interface unit displays a menu for specifying search criteria and output criteria for a search engine in a space adjacent to a specified word and performs a search and output according to the specified word as well as to the menu items specified by the cursor so that workability and convenience for the user can further be improved.

In the document information management system according to another aspect of the present invention databases or the filing units are Web servers connected to each other through the Internet or an intranet so that information can be collected from a wide range thereof through the Internet or the intranet.

Although the invention has been described with respect to a specific embodiment for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art which fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

