---

title: Intelligent ringtone and alarm management for smartphones
abstract: A method and system of managing ringtones and alarms by intercepting device events, associating them with user events, smartphone sensor data and text search to intelligently alter the smartphone ringtones without user intervention. Conventionally, altering the ringtone of a smartphone is done through manual selection and is at most customizable with static selections like a different ringtone for text messages and a different for phone call. The present invention provides a control program along with associated data structures that implement intelligent and context sensitive ringtone selection decisions based on a combination of user data from their incoming text, email, alerts, phone calls and combining them with sensor data from the functions of sensory apparatus on smartphones, user generated functions and a rules set for establishing ringtone rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432501&OS=09432501&RS=09432501
owner: 
number: 09432501
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130915
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of computing devices and more particularly to managing and controlling the ringtones and alarms in smart devices like smartphones and smart watches that are capable of using scheduling and calendaring data.

In recent years the smartphone has become the most used communication devices. With its ability to store and manage data it has also enabled people to use it as a personal time management device. A recently published article in the Business Insider magazine points out that there will be 1.5 billion people with smartphone by December 2013. Smartphones have the capability to send and receive data to and from the Internet in addition to the ability to process the data. Today several Americans manage their daily schedules through cloud computing Ex. Google Calendar and Microsoft Outlook . Such interfaces are accessible through desktop computers at the workplace and through smartphones on the go. If one wishes to have coffee with a friend he she may create an event or a meeting on such a calendar. When the time comes the individual will be alerted about this event on their smartphone. Such automation through the use of cloud computing has added convenience to peoples schedules in recent years. However such automation does not exist for automatically silencing a smartphone if you are in a quiet place like a church or changing the ringtones based on the context of the location event or content on the smartphone. The lack of an intelligent system to selectively silence smartphones can be especially troublesome when a person is in a meeting or conducting an important event.

There are many instances of important appointments engagements and events where a person carrying a communication device like a smartphone is interrupted with phone calls that can wait. There are also several instances where one puts the smartphone on silent or vibrate and forgets to reset it to ring and misses an important call from their boss at work.

Additionally risks of distraction associated with cellphone usage have prompted lawmakers to pass laws prohibiting use of cellphones during driving. There is no intelligent mechanism to silence a smartphone if one is cruising at a certain speed on the freeway and it may be best that a smartphone does not ring unless it is an emergency.

The invention presented here implements an intelligent method of managing ringtones and alarms based on the users schedule of events throughout the day the geo location factors of the smartphone and the content being received on the smartphones.

Everyday people heading to school or official meetings silence their smartphones by using the off button selecting a silent setting or setting the volume to minimum. Later after the event they are required to un silence their phones. Though a physical button or the user interface of the smartphone provide an option to change the behavior of the ringtones it remains a manual user process that a person may exercise multiple times a day. At best this is a cumbersome process and prone to human errors. Frequently the user forgets to set the ringtone back to normal which results in missing an important call or event.

The problem is exacerbated due to hundreds of different models of smartphones with different user interfaces which offer different methods of changing ringtones and silencing the smartphones. Most people struggle with making the changes manually multiple times a day and ultimately give up on managing their ringtones and how and when their smartphones should ring.

To add to the confusion there are thousands of ringtones available for download and installation on a smartphone both free and paid products. Though there are ample choices in number and quality of ringtones accessible to users there is no easy mechanism to play these differently for different events and conditions a person may want to use a distinctive ringtone for. Currently one can associate a certain ringtone for a certain function like phone calls text messages and alarms each of these settings needs manual changes.

The system and method described herein as Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management eliminates the repetitive manual process for managing ringtones and alarms. Smartphones have the ability to store data process data and run applications that can do specialized or general purpose computing tasks. Information such as when an individual s phone should be silenced or un silenced or what ringtone should be used under what circumstances can be used to intelligently use certain ringtones in certain situations and even completely silence the smartphones under certain conditions.

Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management is composed of five distinct parts the Events Dictionary the Events Set the Control Program the Ringtone Mapping and the Ringtones Rules . Each of the five parts has a very distinct purpose in intelligently arriving at a conclusion on what ringtone to use under what circumstances. The Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management is implemented as software and it listens to specific events that happen on the device in our case the smartphone. Its primary jobs are to Intercept certain Device Events and take action if needed. Device Events are system generated events like NewEmail that triggers when a new email arrives on the device NewAlert when an alert is about to go off or NewTextMessage when a new text or SMS message is received on the device in our case the smartphone.

The Events Dictionary is implemented as a data structure that contains items as key value pairs. The item holds functions and their desired values. Functions need to be evaluated for taking an intelligent action on ringtones.

The Events Set is a dynamic collection of items from the Events Dictionary that have computed to be true in that instance of time. Since the items in the Event Set are taken from the Events Dictionary these are also key value pairs.

The most important part of the system is the Control Program that continuously runs in the device in our case the smartphone. The Control Program is a collection of instructions and data further implemented into specific modules that process the Events Dictionary and collect the items that are true at any instance of time into the Events Set . The Control Program also implements the User Interface for managing configuration of certain elements of the system and managing ringtones. In addition the Control Program also stores three separate ringtones that are used in certain situations the ringtones being silent vibrate and flash respectively. The Control System described above can be written in Objective C for the iPhone or as a Java application for Android bases smartphones using the respective APIs application programming interfaces to achieve the functionality described herein.

The Ringtone Mappings is also implemented as a data structure that contains items as key value pairs. The item holds text strings and ringtones. The purpose of Ringtone Mappings is to serve as a repository that Is used by the Control Program to decide which ringtone it should select for playing when a particular text is found in events generated on the device Device Events .

The final piece of the system is the Ringtone Rules implemented in a mobile relational data database structure like the open source SQLite or commercial products like Oracle Database Lite SQLAnywhere and many other similar products in the marketplace. The Ringtone Rules consist of one or more key value pairs from Events Directory and one and only one key value pair from Ringtone Mapping . The Ringtone Rules can be in active or inactive state.

The Control Program manages the Ringtone Mappings Events Dictionary Events Set and the Ringtone Rules. The Device Events generated on the device in our case the smartphone are available as an API that the Control Program can listen to. Once an event is triggered the Control Program used the Events Directory to dynamically generate the Events Set that is matched against the Ringtone Rules . If an appropriate Events Set match is found by the Control Program it then matches the Device Event s content against the respective text from the key value pair representing the ringtone mapping in the matched ringtone rule. If there is a match and the ringtone rule is active the smartphone is set to use the matched ringtone.

This invention solves the problem of having to manually alter ringtone based on certain events or time of the day. In addition it manages the ringtones and alarms intelligently not only based on events generated by the device but also based on the events happening dynamically. In addition the content of the events is taken into consideration before altering the ringtone setting of the device.

Additionally the present invention relieves a person from worrying about or executing special settings on their smartphones when they want to be alerted or when they do not want to be disturbed. These decisions are handled intelligently by the Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management system based on contents of user s email calendar entries text messages where the smartphone is based on data from the GPS the accelerometer or any other component on the smartphone.

The present invention has further advantages. The features of this invention can be extended to apply to other conditions apart from processing calendar entries. For example the invention can be applied to automatically silence a phone when the owner is driving based on the speed data from the built in GPS systems on smartphones. Such a product will lead to added convenience and may lead to a reduction in the number of driving accidents. Furthermore this feature could be extended to provide a larger range of usability. The user can interact with the dictionary and add unique keywords that match with a sender s identification. For example a phrase or keyword matching a sender s email address or name would lead to a silenced phone while a phrase or keyword matching another user can alert a user with a special ringtone.

The present invention is described in the context of a specific embodiment. This is done to facilitate the understanding of the features and principles of the present invention and the present invention is not limited to this embodiment. In particular the present invention is described in the context of managing ringtones intelligently on a smartphone.

The first component is a data structure called the Events Dictionary that holds functions and their values that need to be evaluated for taking an intelligent action on ringtones. This information is stored as a key value pair where key any function that can be evaluated. Typically any object exposed through the API will have a function that can return a value. If the value of the computed functions equals the value stored in the key value pair the item is tagged as TRUE otherwise its tagged as FALSE The following examples describe a few function and how they are used and stored 

An example of such a function can be the time function e.g. time that return the current time on the smartphone.

Another example can be a function on the GPS object e.g. GPS location that returns the coordinates the current location or the nickname of the previously saved coordinates like home school pharmacy etc.

A key value pair from example 2 above can be stored as GPS location School provided School is a tag that maps the actual coordinates of the user s school.

The Events Set is a dynamic collection of items from the Events Dictionary that have computed to be TRUE in that instance of time. Since the events in the Event Set are taken from the Events Dictionary these are also key value pairs . The functioning of the Events Set is illustrated in the example 3 below 

When the Control Program reads Events Directory and finds GPS location Home as a key value pair It will evaluate GPS location . The function GPS location will return the coordinates of the present location. If the coordinates returned are tagged as Home the GPS location function computed to the stored value in Events Dictionary and the key value pair i.e. GPS location Home will be placed in the Events Set .

The Control Program continuously runs on the device. The Control Program is a collection of instructions and data further implemented into specific modules that process the Events Dictionary and create the Events Set . The Control Program also implements the User Interface for managing configuration of certain elements of the system and managing ringtones. In addition the Control Program also stores three separate ringtones that are used in certain situations the ringtones being silent vibrate and flash respectively. The Control System has three modules implemented in software. These are Interactive Mode Module that implements the GUI that controls data entry to all other components of the present invention. The Background Logic Module continuously scans the Events Dictionary and evaluates each function in the key value pair for each item. As soon as it find a function that equals the value in the key value pair it has computed the item to be TRUE and it adds the key value pair to Events Set . If the item computes to FALSE then the item if present in the Events Set is removed by the Background Logic Module .

The Ringtone Mappings is also implemented as a data structure that contains items as key value pairs . The item holds text strings and ringtones. The purpose of Ringtone Mappings is to serve as a repository of information for the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program which decides what ringtone it should select for playing when a particular text from the key value pair is found in events generated on the device Device Events . Items from Ringtone Mappings are used in Ringtone Rules .

The final piece of the system is the Ringtone Rules implemented in a mobile relational data database structure like the open source SQLite or commercial products like Oracle Database Lite SQLAnywhere and many other similar products in the marketplace. The Ringtone Rules consist of one or more key value pairs from Events Directory and one and only one key value pair from Ringtone Mappings . The resulting items in Ringtone Rules are also constrained as an index key. This means only one unique unordered combination of key value pairs makes it to the Ringtone Rules database. In addition the items in the Ringtone Rules database can be active or inactive as shown in . Note that the key value pair from the Ringtone Mappings is of type text text while the key value pair from the Events Directory is of type function text . The Ringtone Rules database can contain multiple but distinct function text pairs but one and only one text text . The items that can be valid or invalid for the Ringtone Rules database are illustrated in examples 4 and 5 below 

GPS location Home Day Tuesday Homework DogBark and GPS location Home Homework DogBark Day Tuesday cannot be in Ringtone Rules at the same time Only one of these is allowed and the ordering of the key value pairs is not relevant.

 GPS location Home Day Tuesday Homework DogBark and GPS location Home Homework DogBark are valid and unique keys so they are allowed in Ringtone Rules at the same time.

Once the Events Dictionary and Ringtone Mappings are loaded the Control Program spawns off Interactive Mode Logic Module and Background Mode Logic Module . It then waits for Interactive Mode Logic Module to send it a termination signal otherwise it runs indefinitely . Once the Control Program receives and EXIT signal from for Interactive Mode Logic Module it stops both Background Mode Logic Module and Interactive Mode Logic Module as shown in step and exits.

As the Background Mode Logic Module intercepts these events and information about these events it starts evaluating the key value pairs in the Events Dictionary . It extracts the function name from the first item and evaluates the function. If the result of this evaluation is the same as the corresponding value in the key value pair then the Background Mode Logic Module considers this condition as TRUE and adds the key value pair to the Events Set if it is not already present. If however the function is evaluated and the result does not match the corresponding value in key value pair then the Background Mode Logic Module considers this condition as FALSE and deletes the key value pair from the Events Set if it is present in the Events Set .

This way the Events Set contains only the unique key value pairs that are evaluated TRUE by the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program upon each monitored device event. The following examples 6 and 7 illustrate how the Events Set is dynamically managed by the Control Program upon intercepting the device events and using the Events Dictionary .

Assume Events Set Year 2013 and a new email is received and the Background Mode Logic Module receives data from NewMail . Under step only one of the items in the Events Dictionary 301 is found TRUE. Let s say Day Tuesday is TRUE. Then Events Set is set to Day Tuesday Year 2013 .

Assume Events Set Day Tuesday Year 2013 and a new email is received and the Background Mode Logic Module receives data from NewMail . Under step none of the items in the Events Dictionary is found TRUE. Let s say Day Tuesday is FALSE. Then Events Set is set to Year 2013 .

After processing all items in the Events Dictionary and completing updates to the Events Set the Background Mode Logic Module looks for a perfect match for key value pairs in step between the Events Set and the matching collection of function text pairs in the Ringtone Rules database that are active. If a perfect match is not found among the active items the next best match is searched in step . Perfect match is the same collection of function text pairs in the Ringtone Rules database as in the Events Set . The next best match is a collection of at least one function text pairs in the Ringtone Rules database that is smaller than the items in the Events Set . The steps and undertaken for perfect and next best match are illustrated in the example 7 below 

As another scenario illustrating the next best match assume that the Events Set Day Tuesday Year 2013 and Ringtone Rules database is as follows 

As yet another scenario illustrating that no best match is found assume that the Events Set Day Tuesday Year 2013 and Ringtone Rules database is as follows 

In case neither the perfect nor the next best match are found by the Background Mode Logic Module it continues to Wait for intercepting any new device events .

In case a perfect or the next best match are found the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program proceeds to step and examines the key of the key value pair that represents the item from Ringtone Mappings in the Ringtone Rules . If the key NULL which means no text is associated with the ringtone the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program simply uses the API of the smartphone operating system to play the respective ringtone.

If however as illustrated in step the key of the key value pair that represents the item from Ringtone Mappings in the Ringtone Rules is not NULL and has a text the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program compares this text with the values returned from the device event in step . This comparison is carried out by using a standard string search API provided by the smartphone operating system. If any of the values from the device event matches the text from in this key value pair the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program simply uses the API of the smartphone operating system to play the respective ringtone represented by the value part of this key value pair. If the match in step fails the Background Mode Logic Module of the Control Program returns to step to watch and intercept new device events.

Assume a match perfect or next best match was found in the Ringtone Rules as Day Tuesday Year 2013 and Ringtone Rules database is as follows 

Assume a match perfect or next best match was found in the Ringtone Rules as Day Tuesday Year 2013 and Ringtone Rules database is as follows 

A real life example of the above is a student receiving a text message from the teacher that Your Homework is past due . Assuming the events in example 9 the student s smartphone will play the CatMeow ringtone reminding the student that a rule related to Homework has fired a special ringtone that deserves attention.

The examples and figures demonstrate the various components need to successfully implement an Intelligent Ringtone and Alarm Management System . The invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments. However it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that it is possible to embody the invention in specific forms other than those of the preferred embodiments described above. This may be done without departing from the spirit of the invention.

Thus the preferred embodiment is merely illustrative and should not be considered restrictive in any way. The scope of the invention is given by the appended claims rather than the preceding description and all variations and equivalents which fall within the range of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

As we can see the current invention can be used in many different areas that can benefit daily of us smartphone. One application that the current invention provides a means to automatically switch on the ringtone implemented as a flash if the Ambient Light Sensor on the smartphone senses dark conditions. Another application can be to use the Ringtones Rules to warn the driver carrying a smartphone with a specific ringtone when they receive a text phone call or email and the GPS senses that the driver is speeding above a certain speed. This can warn the driver that it is not safe to attend to the smartphone. Alternatively the present invention can be used to alert a person with a smartphone when they receive a text message with the words urgent from their kids or parents.

As we can see the flexibility of the present invention lends itself to many users left only to human imagination. The key is to provide a system and method for the smartphones to intelligently use the device or user events location sensor data of any kind on the smartphone and the ability to combine the decisions based on content of the events messages and alerts to alter the ringtone behavior.

