---

title: Secure input to a computing device
abstract: A computing device senses speech or other user input. One or more physical variable pertaining to a user of the computing device are also sensed, and respective signals are analyzed or compared to the user input. The analysis determines if the user input is likely that of an authorized user, and assigns a confidence metric to that determination. The computing device may then perform actions corresponding to the speech or user input content in accordance with the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09257133&OS=09257133&RS=09257133
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09257133
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
Various computing devices accept and respond to verbal user commands and inputs. Users seek to operate their computing devices in public or social environments free from erroneous or unauthorized operations resulting from the speech of others. For example a user with a wearable computing device may not want the speech from someone standing next to them to operate their device. Methods and apparatus for improving the secure and reliable operation of such computing devices are continually sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Some computing devices accept verbal commands or inputs and respond accordingly. Wearable computers cellular telephones tablet computers laptop computers media access or viewing devices and the like are just a few examples. Such computing devices may perform respective functions access various services provided by remote or network based apparatus and so forth.

Concern regarding unauthorized or unintended operation of such a computing device arises within public or social environments such as open office spaces shopping areas hotel lobbies or other locations where different persons may be talking near the computing device. Specifically a person speaking within detectable proximity of a computing device may be erroneously interpreted as issuing a command or input. Thus a computing device might respond by accepting input or executing commands given by someone other than an authorized user. Furthermore a malicious party may use electronic recording means to record a verbal command issued by an authorized user only to playback that command to a computing device at another time with detrimental effect.

Sensors may be used to detect a wide range of physical variables associated with an authorized user. Pulse rate respiration rate movement of the user s mouth air pressure changes within an ear canal muscle or nerve impulses and numerous other biomedical variables may be sensed or measured. Such involuntary or incidental phenomenon may exhibit characteristics that correspond to the utterance of speech. That is such a physical variable or variables may be sensed and corresponding electronic signaling may be analyzed or compared with that of speech detected using a microphone or other sensor. Temporal fluctuations heuristic matches or other respective factors may indicate whether or not detected speech originated from the authorized user.

Sensors or other input devices may also be used to generate a signal that may be used to verify a source of detected speech. For example an authorized user may assume an inclined or tilted orientation of their head while issuing verbal input to a wearable computer. The tilted orientation may be detected by way of an accelerometer gyroscope tilt sensor and so forth. In another example an authorized user may maintain fingertip contact with a fingerprint biometric sensor while uttering verbal commands to a computing device. These and other user actions may be used to verify that detected speech is that of an authorized user.

Machine learning techniques may be used to associate the physical variables with speech of the authorized user. For example a biomedical sensor may be used to sense muscle impulses related to jaw motion. An initial learning operation may be performed wherein analysis of the related sensor signals provides an impulse pattern signature or set of signatures for a given authorized user. This learned information may be stored and used thereafter during real time operations when the same user is issuing verbal commands or inputs.

The same machine learning information may also be augmented or adjusted over time in accordance with changes in the user s speaking habits or characteristics. In another example analysis of an authorized user s pulse rate may reveal patterns or characteristics that are stored and used during future authorization of speech. Other numerous machine learning or signal processing techniques may also be used.

The foregoing and other techniques may also be used in situations where user input to the computing device is non verbal. For instance nerve impulses detected by a corresponding biomedical sensor of a wristband may be compared with learned information for an authorized user. User input to a keyboard or button pad may thus be authenticated before the corresponding computing device responds or acts thereupon. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A computing device is associated with a user . As depicted the computing device is a wearable computer having a display positioned in front of an eye or eyes of the user . The display is configured to present text images indicia or other visible matter to the user . In one implementation the display is a transparent heads up display wherein the user may also view real world objects disposed in the distance beyond the display .

The computing device also includes a microphone configured to detect speech of the user and to provide corresponding signals. The computing device may further include an accelerometer tilt switch or other sensor that provides signaling indicative of a tilt or orientation of the computing device in accordance with the tilt or orientation of the head of the user .

The computing device includes a hardware processor or processors configured to perform various operations according to a machine executable program code. The computing device is further configured to function in response to commands or inputs provided by way of the speech . Thus the computing device may perform various functions or invoke respective services based upon verbal content of the speech .

The computing device may be configured to determine the orientation of the head of the user during times that verbal input is detected by the microphone . For instance the computing device may be configured to recognize verbal input as the speech of the user if the orientation of the computing device is consistent with a predetermined value or range. Thus the user may tilt their head to a particular stance or position in order for the computing device to respond to verbal commands or inputs within the speech . Verbal inputs detected under other computing device orientations may thus be ignored as not being directed to the computing device or as originating from someone other than the user .

A computing device is also depicted and is associated with a user . The illustrative computing device is in the form of a tablet computer. The computing device includes a microphone configured to detect or sense speech and to provide corresponding electronic signaling. The computing device includes a hardware processor or processors configured to perform various operations according to a machine executable program code. Additionally the computing device may perform various functions or invoke respective services based upon verbal content within the speech .

The computing device further includes a camera . The camera is configured to provide images encoded by way of electronic signals. For instance the camera may provide images of motions or configurations of a mouth of the user while verbal commands or inputs are being given by way of the speech . Thus the camera may be used to provide images that are analyzed or compared with respective characteristics of detected verbal input to determine whether or not it is speech originating from the user .

Any particular computing device may include an input module . The input module may include a hardware processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC executable program code stored on non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM electronic circuitry or other constituency. The input module may be configured to receive electronic signals from a microphone and to analyze or determine if verbal commands or inputs are present therein.

For instance the input module may compare microphone signals and biomedical signals from one or more sensors toward detecting time varying characteristics that correspond to each other. Peaks and lulls for example in muscle impulses may be correlated to peaks and lulls in a stream of verbal input. Other signal processing or heuristics may also be used toward authenticating the verbal input as user speech . If such an authentication is made the computing device may then identify verbal commands inputs values or other information communicated within the speech confirm the user is authorized to initiate those commands and respond accordingly.

Authentication generally refers to determining that a specific known user is the source of speech that is being detected. Thus authenticated speech is speech that is determined to have originated from or is associated with a particular user . Authorization generally refers to permissions or rights associated with the particular user . This may include identifying particular commands instructions sets of functions or other aspects that the particular user is permitted to access or perform using a given computing device .

Also depicted is a muscle activity sensor that is supported over jaw musculature of the user by way of an adhesive backing or other material. In another instance the muscle activity sensor may be provided as a part of an eyewear type device as a part of a hat or as part of another apparatus. The muscle activity sensor is configured to sense muscle activity and to provide corresponding signals by wireless communication to the computing device and in turn provided to the machine learning module . In another example the sensor provides a signal that is communicated to one or more of the networks for communication to one or more computing devices . Thus the sensor may be considered as a networked sensor .

The muscle activity sensor may be variously defined. Non limiting examples of the muscle activity sensor include electrical potential sensors electromyograph force sensors ultrasonic sensors such as used for tissue Doppler imaging and so forth. Other sensor types may also be used respectively internal or external to the body of the authorized user . For example implanted electromyography sensors may detect the electrical signals from the user s muscles and generate corresponding data.

In another example two or more respective authorized users are associated with corresponding sensors and one or more microphones . The corresponding sensor signals and microphone signal s may then be received by a machine learning module such that speech inputs from the plurality of users may be authenticated and acted upon. Thus two or more sensors microphones or other apparatus may operate respectively and cooperatively in accordance with various techniques contemplated herein such that respective systems may be defined and used.

The computing device may also communicate information data or requests using wireless signals to and from a wireless access point . In turn the wireless access point may be connected to communicate with one or more networks . Such network s may include the Internet or access thereto local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs and so forth. A support server may be connected to the network s such that the computing device may exchange information therewith request one or more services and so forth.

The support server may include an authorization module configured to authenticate a user or computing device requesting a service or services. For instance the computing device may provide an authorization code or certificate to the support server for verification by the authorization module . The support server may then provide or deny requested services accordingly. Other user authorization methods may also be used.

The support server may also include secured data . The secured data may include information values data structures having respective elements listings images sound files video matter or other content to be selectively provided to the computing device upon authorized request. The support server may also perform various other functions or operations in accordance with computing device requests such as calculations image or signal processing data encryption or decryption and so forth.

The computing device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the computing device to communicate with various other computing devices user devices the support server web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include one or more output devices such as a display audio output haptic output or other devices. The computing device may also include one or more different types of sensors . The sensors may also include one or more biometric sensors such as a fingerprint scanner retinal scanner facial recognition scanner or other suitable devices. The sensors may also include one or more biomedical sensors such as a cardiac pulse sensor respiration sensor nerve impulse sensors muscle impulse or activity sensors or other suitable sensor type. The respective biomedical sensors may be configured to sense corresponding physical variables independent of or without sensing a vibration of the user .

The sensors may further include one or more orientation sensors . The orientation sensor s may be configured to provide respective signals indicative of an orientation tilt or positioning of the computing device or some aspect of a corresponding user . For instance a user may place the computing device in some predetermined orientation when the user is issuing verbal commands or inputs by way of speech .

The sensors may also include one or more accelerometers configured to provide respective signals indicative of acceleration velocity motion or orientation of the computing device . The sensors may further include one or more buttons configured to provide respective signals indicating a user input force applied thereto. For instance a user may press and hold a button while issuing speech intended as input to the computing device and release the button at other times.

The sensors may also include one or more respective touch sensors . The touch sensors may be configured to provide respective signals indicative of contact with a user digit temple area or other feature. In one implementation a touch sensor provides a signal corresponding to the user s galvanic skin response which may vary between a first level when the user is speaking and a second level when they are not. In another implementation two touch sensors are used as electrodes to pass a low level electrical signal through the skin of the user wherein variations in current value may be correlated to issuance of speech .

The sensors may further include one or more pressure sensors configured to provide respective signals in accordance with sensed air pressure or that of another medium of interest. For example a pressure sensor may provide signals indicative of air pressure in a user ear canal wherein such pressure exhibits changes corresponding to speech . The I O devices may also include one or more range cameras configured to provide information indicative of a finger hand arm or other gestural inputs by the user to the computing device .

The sensors may include the camera introduced above which may provide images of a user mouth during speech . Other sensors may also be included such as an eye movement scanner exhalation or inhalation sensor or another suitable sensor type. One or more of the respective sensors may be configured to communicate signals indicative of their respective measurements or detections to other apparatus by way of one or more of the networks . Thus data or information regarding respective sensed physical variables may be provided to numerous computing devices to one or more support servers or to other apparatus.

The computing device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interface s are configured to provide communications with other computing devices web based resources support servers routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The computing device may also include one or more batteries for providing electrical power during normal operations. The battery or batteries may be rechargeable or disposable in nature. Other portable energy sources such as photovoltaic cells and so forth may also be used. The computing device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the computing device .

The computing device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the computing device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more of the application modules . Non limiting examples of the application module include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may further store a communication module such that wireless signaling may be communicated to and from the computing device .

The memory may also store the input module configured to receive electronic signals from one or more of the I O devices and to analyze compare or process these signals so as to perform various operations. In one instance the input module may operate to determine if detected speech originates from an authorized user . In another instance the input module may function to identify a user by way of a fingerprint applied to a biometric sensor . Other operations may also be performed.

The memory may also include a machine learning module . The machine learning module may be configured to perform one or more respective functions. In one example the machine learning module identifies one or more correspondences between signals from respective sensors of the I O devices and stores related data or information for later use by the input module . For instance a pattern or patterns detected within user respiration signals provided by a biomedical sensor may be correlated to patterns within speech of that user . These characteristic patterns may be used for later verification that an authorized user is the source of detected speech such that the computing device will respond accordingly to any verbal commands inputs and so forth within the speech .

The machine learning module may include techniques such as clustering or the training of a classifier. The machine learning module may further use algorithms that include but are not limited to one or more of the following artificial neural networks inductive logic programming support vector machines SVMs clustering classification Bayesian networks decision tree learning association rule learning reinforcement learning representation learning similarity learning metric learning sparse dictionary learning and so forth.

Broadly speaking the machine learning module may use or include any suitable techniques or resources that result in advancing or evolving analytical abilities regarding user speech the processing of such speech user identification and so forth. The machine learning module may for instance assume a basic training mode when a new authorized user is introduced to the corresponding computing device . After some time learning about a new user the machine learning module may transition to a more active evaluation mode wherein the machine learning module exercises greater autonomy as to accepting or rejecting particular speech events. Other machine learning module operating modes or patterns may also be used.

In another example the machine learning module may compare speech signals from a microphone with signals from a pressure sensor within an ear canal of a user . The machine learning module may detect temporal correspondences between the two signals with respect to amplitude peaks inflections and so forth and calculate a corresponding confidence value indicative of the likelihood that the speech originates from the user . Other operations of the machine learning module may also be performed.

Different commands or functions may be available or restricted in accordance with the confidence values determined for respective speech utterances or events. For example if a relatively low confidence value is calculated for a specific speech event then only operations of relatively low security concern may be allowed. For instance a user may say increase font size to 14 points while verbally reciting text for inclusion in an e mail. Such a command may be a low security concern and so a relatively low confidence value is required for execution by the computing device . In another example speech may include print the contents of this message . If the message is of a confidential or secured nature then a relatively higher confidence value is also required in order to generate the requested hardcopy. Other examples and scenarios may also be considered.

The machine learning module may include a processor microcontroller ASIC executable code stored on CRSM or other elements or constituents. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a radio receiver ports or resources for wired communications and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other computing devices or apparatus including support services network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more authorizations corresponding to one or more different users . That is the computing device may be used or shared among two or more users each having a respective security level or authority to view sensitive information access particular services and so on. Thus respective security values or encoded serial numbers digital certificates or other information may be included within the authorizations for use during requested access to respective services and so on. The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

The confidence table includes respective physical variables . Each of the physical variables corresponds to a user related phenomenon or characteristic that may exhibit factors comparable to another factor or factors exhibited by speech . For instance a pulse rate of a user may increase or exhibit slight arrhythmia during issuance of speech . Thus such pulse rate changes or characteristics as detected by an appropriate biomedical sensor may be used to verify that presently detected speech is that of an authorized user . Similar comparisons or correlations may also be derived for the other illustrative physical variables .

The confidence table also includes respective confidence values . Each of the illustrative confidence values is associated with one of the physical variables and quantifies a likelihood that detection of that physical variable correlates to speech issued at or about that same time by a particular or authorized user . As indicated for illustration purposes some physical variables correspond to relatively greater confidence values than others.

For instance detecting motion of a mouth area of a user may correspond to a confidence value of 0.91 i.e. 91 that detected speech is that of the same user . In contrast detecting air pressure changes in an ear canal of a user may correspond to a confidence value of 0.74 i.e. 74 that the same user is the source of detected speech . As depicted some of the physical variables are biomedical in nature being involuntary responses or characteristics exhibited by the user body. Other physical variables correspond to deliberate acts on the part of a user such as pressing or holding a button or tilting their head to a predetermined orientation while speaking. Still other physical variables such as retinal patterns or fingerprints are characteristics that are of a fixed nature unless injury disease or another factor causes them to change.

Also depicted is a sensor configured to sense or detect a physical variable and to provide a corresponding sensor signal . In turn a microphone is configured to detect speech and to provide a corresponding microphone signal . The machine learning module as introduced above receives the sensor signal and the microphone signal and analyzes or compares these signals according to one or more analytical techniques heuristics or other processes. Such an analysis may result in machine learning data or information that is stored for later use during speech or user authentications.

In another implementation the microphone and microphone signal are not used and the machine learning module receives user command or data input by way of a keyboard key pad stylus and input tablet or other input device or arrangement. Thus the machine learning module may be configured to operate based on input other than speech . The input device may be configured to operate based on keyboarding stylus writing or other non verbal inputs as well.

The machine learning module may also generate or provide a confidence value in accordance with the analysis of the sensor signal and the microphone signal . The machine learning module may also use other data provided by a sensor a data structure stored on the support server or another suitable source or apparatus. The other data may include values heuristics mathematical functions predefined operations or other information used during analysis or comparison of the sensor signal and the microphone signal calculation of the confidence value and so on. The confidence value is indicative of the probability or likelihood that the speech originated from an authorized user that is a user making authorized use of a computing device . The confidence value may be provided to the input module for use determining that speech or another user input originated from an authorized user .

The support server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the support server to communicate with the computing devices with other services network based devices and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the support server or they may be externally placed.

The support server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the support server and the computing devices other services servers or network based apparatus routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth. The support server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the support server .

The support server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the support server . The memory may include at least one operating system module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may also generate or provide one or more user input devices or user selection devices to a computing device . Such user interfaces may be encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

A communication module is configured to support communication with various computing devices one or more other support servers apparatus and so forth using the one or more networks . In some implementations the communication module may support encrypted communications. For example hypertext transport protocol secured HTTPS or transport layer security TLS may be supported.

The memory may also include an input module as introduced above. The input module may thus perform various operations in support of determining if detected speech originates from an authorized user of a computing device . The input module may perform other actions or services as well. The memory may also include an authorization module as introduced above. Thus the authorization module may be configured to authenticate a user or a computing device that is requesting a service or services.

The memory may further include a machine learning module as described above. The machine learning module may be configured to identify patterns or other comparative characteristics by comparing detected speech with one or more physical variables . The machine learning module may also create or amend a data structure or other files including information patterns or signatures or other data as acquired or generated over time. The memory may also include one or more other modules .

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store machine learned data as generated or amended by the machine learning module . The datastore may also include secured data such as information values data structures listings images sound files video matter or other content that may be provided to a computing device upon authorized request. The datastore may further store other data . For instance the other data may include one or more scripts to automate respective functions and so on. The other data may also include one or more general non sensitive data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block detects speech using a microphone of a computing device . For purposes of a present example the user is authorized to use the computing device a tablet computer and to issue verbal commands or inputs thereto. Accordingly the user issues speech including a verbal command for the computing device to launch an application for displaying stored digital photographs.

Block analyzes the speech to determine if verbal command content is present. In the present example the input module of the computing device analyzes the detected speech to determine if any verbal commands or input are being issued. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the input module correctly determines that a verbal command is communicated within the speech calling for launch of a digital photo viewer. Thus the process proceeds on to block . If no verbal command or input had been detected the process would have ignored the speech and returned to block awaiting the next detected verbal issuance.

The determination of verbal command content at block above may include determining what specific command or content is present in the detected speech . Speech recognition techniques digital signal processing signal sampling and comparison techniques or other functions may be used to parse or identify specific words commands phrases values or other content with the detected speech .

Block senses one or more physical variables correspondent to the detection of the speech . In the present example a sensor in the form of a biomedical sensor is disposed and configured to detect nerve impulses at a location on the user near the jaw muscles. The sensing of nerve impulses occurs proximate in time or contemporaneously with the detection of the speech . The sensor signal and the microphone signal are provided simultaneously to the input module of the computing device .

Block analyzes the physical variable s and the speech to determine if the speech is that of an authenticated user an authorized user or a user which is authenticated and authorized. In the present example the input module analyzes the sensor signal and the microphone signal to determine of the speech is that of the user . The input module may apply heuristics or compare the nerve impulses or the speech or both to respective previously determined signatures or information and so forth. In the present instance the input module determines that the presently detected speech originated from the authorized user . Accordingly the process proceeds on to block . Had the input module determined that the speech likely originated from someone other than the user then the process would ignore the speech and returned to block .

Block performs one or more actions in accordance with verbal command content of the speech . In the present example the input module signals a processor of the computing device that the user is authenticated and actions requested by the user are authorized in view of the just determined confidence value . In turn the input module provides digital information to the processor detailing the specific command communicated within the speech . The processor responds by launching a digital photo viewer application wherein the user may thereafter browse respective photo images select those for viewing in detail and so forth.

Block accesses data indicative of one or more physical variables proximate in time to a user input. For purposes of a present example the user is making authorized use of the computing device a wearable computer. An orientation sensor provides a sensor signal indicative of the tilt or orientation of the computing device during operation. Contemporaneously a microphone provides data encoded within a microphone signal indicative of detected speech issued by the user . An input module accesses data encoded within the sensor signal such that real time information regarding the orientation of the computing device is acquired.

Block analyzes the data to determine an association between the physical variable s and the user input based on a predefined comparison. In the present example the input module analyzes the data of the sensor signal and that of the microphone signal in accordance with a predefined comparison scheme. For instance the input module may be checking for tilt or angular orientation of the computing device at 20 degrees or greater below horizontal as an indication that the speech is intended as command input. Other physical variable and speech association schemes may also be used.

Block generates a confidence value based on the association. In the present example the physical orientation of the computing device is at 25 degrees below the horizontal and thus at an angle of tilt greater than the illustrative threshold value of 20 degrees. The machine learning module has previously determined the threshold value of 20 degrees and based on the current set of motions and the physical orientation at 25 degrees issues a confidence value of 0.92 i.e. 92 likelihood that is an intentional input. This confidence value may then be communicated to the input module .

Block requests one or more services from a support server in accordance with content of the user input and a user authorization . In the present example the input module signals a processor of the computing device to proceed in accordance with command input within the speech . The input module also provides data to the processor indicating that a specific accounting file has been requested by way of speech .

In turn the processor issues a request for a specific accounting file to the support server by way of the one or more network s . The request also includes an authorization certificate for the user . The support server responds by verifying the user s authorization by operation of the authorization module . Thereafter the support server acquires the requested accounting file from secured data and sends it to the computing device way of the networks .

Block senses speech and one or more physical variables . For purposes of a present example the user is authorized to use the computing device . The user issues speech including a verbal command to close a presently running e book reader application. The speech is sensed by a microphone that provides a corresponding microphone signal . In turn a sensor specifically a biomedical sensor configured to sense body vibrations provides a sensor signal . An input module of the computing device receives the microphone signal and the sensor signal .

Block analyzes the physical variables using stored machine learned data . In the present example the input module accesses previously acquired machine learned data and acquires a set of body vibration patterns corresponding to numerous authorized users . The input module then uses these patterns to compare or analyze the present sensor signal content. Specifically the input module operates to determine if the sensor signal content is that of the known user . Heuristics Fourier analysis or other signal processing or comparison techniques may be used.

The machine learning module is also operating contemporaneously with the input module . The machine learning module in one embodiment detects twelve characteristics of interest when comparing the sensor signal with the body vibration patterns of the machine learned data . Such characteristics may include vibration frequencies peak levels patterns defined by peaks and lulls in body vibrations or other factors. Of these illustrative characteristics two represent a continuation of a pattern previously detected with respect to the user . Thus these two new body vibration characteristics constitute new machine learned information.

Block authenticates the speech as that of an authorized user in accordance with the analysis. In the present example the input module determines that the speech is very likely that of the authorized user . Additionally the machine learning module assigns a confidence value of 0.91 i.e. 91 to the just determined authentication and communicates this information to the input module . The input module then provides a positive signal to a processor of the computing device . The signal may be indicative of one or more of authentication authorization or the confidence value .

Block amends the stored machine learned data based on the physical variables and the analysis. In the present example the machine learning module amends the existing machine learned data adding the two newly identified characteristics from block above. Thus the machine learned data includes additional information that may be used by the input module when performing future authentications of detected speech .

Block performs one or more actions in accordance with verbal command content of the speech . In the present example an input module of the computing device indicates to the processor to close the e book reader application. The processor responds by performing one or more operations such that the e book reader application is discontinued and shut down. Particular commands or operations may or may not be available to the user based on confidence values assigned to particular speech events and so forth in the interest of additional security. For example a command which has low confidence value may perform a low security operation such as taking a picture while a high confidence value may be used to perform a high security operation such as sending encrypted data.

Block confirms the authentication of the speech and amends the stored machine learned data accordingly. In the present example the machine learning module verifies that the user does not retract or undo the action or actions just performed at block . Such a retraction may indicate that the authentication made at block was in error resulting in the performance of unauthorized actions at block . If such a retraction is detected then the machine learning module may change the machine learned data to reflect the negative user feedback just received. In the present example it is assumed that no user retraction is made and that the authentication at block was correct.

Thus the machine learned data may evolve in accordance with both correct and incorrect analysis and determinations made by the machine learning module . The machine learned data may thus improve in detail and accuracy over the course of time and operational experience giving rise to greater security and user confidence when operating the computing device in public venues.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a nontransitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

