---

title: Data center intelligent control and optimization
abstract: Systems and methods of monitoring, analyzing, optimizing and controlling data centers and data center operations are disclosed. The system includes data collection and storage hardware and software for harvesting operational data from data center assets and operations. Intelligent analysis and optimization software enables identification of optimization and/or control actions. Control software and hardware enables enacting a change in the operational state of data centers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09448544&OS=09448544&RS=09448544
owner: BASELAYER Technology, LLC
number: 09448544
owner_city: Chandler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130309
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 788 834 filed Mar. 7 2013 and entitled Data Center Intelligent Control and Optimization. The 384 application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 626 299 filed Nov. 25 2009 and entitled Apparatus and Method of Environmental Condition Management for Electronic Equipment. The 299 application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 119 980 filed Dec. 4 2008 entitled Thermal Management Cabinet for Electronic Equipment. The 299 and the 980 applications are incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to data centers and more particularly to monitoring optimizing and controlling data center operations.

Data centers are typically facilities for housing electronic equipment. Traditionally these facilities often have a large footprint due to the various components necessary for maintaining the facilities including cooling equipment. Monitoring optimizing and controlling a data center and or data center infrastructure assets is typically performed manually without considering multiple aspects of the data center. For example managing the data center infrastructure e.g. cooling power distribution etc. is typically done without considering the utilization of servers within the data center. Similarly management of the servers and application running on the servers is typically ignorant of the underlying data center infrastructure.

Embodiments of this disclosure include systems and methods of optimizing data centers and data center operations by collecting monitoring analyzing warehousing and mining data analyzing and predicting using proprietary algorithms forecasts simulations and models to develop alternative data center configurations and processes optimizing by analyzing a plurality of optimization dimensions and developing and evaluating alternative optimization actions and generating and implementing optimization instructions.

In various embodiments a data center control system comprises a memory in communication with a processor the processor when executing a computer program for data center control performs operations to optimize data center operations. The system accesses input data associated with data center operations wherein the input data comprises at least one of inventory data operational data historical data and external data. The system determines at least one data center optimization dimension. Optimization dimensions may include at least one of reliability resiliency risk latency efficiency cost and threat avoidance.

Based upon at least a portion of the input data the system forecasts to produce predictive data. Based upon at least one data center optimization dimension the predictive data and the input data the system determines an optimization action. The system generates an optimization instruction based upon the optimization action. In various embodiments executing the optimization instruction causes a change in an operational state associated with the data center operations.

Various embodiments of this disclosure include systems and methods of monitoring analyzing and controlling data centers and related hardware and software. In an embodiment a data center infrastructure control system DCICS determines based upon a first expression a first operation and data collection points associated with data center assets. Data collection points may include sensors indicators detectors application programming interfaces system data etc. In various embodiments the expression may be obtained from a data base a user interface another system a hardware device etc. In various embodiments the expression may be derived or generated by the DCICS based upon for example other expressions data or events.

DCICS interprets and or analyzes the expression and generates machine code instructions that may include for example instructions to obtain the first point data from the data collection points and to perform the operation based upon the first point data. In various embodiments the instructions may include instructions for obtaining receiving or retrieving the first point data.

DCICS executes the machine code instructions to produce a first result of the first operation. In various embodiments in response to producing the first result DCICS examines or analyzes the first result and determines a first control instruction. Executing the first control instruction causes a change in an operational state of at least one of a data center asset and a data center. In various embodiments DCICS may execute the control instruction partially execute the control instruction and or communicate the control instruction to a hardware device or software program for execution.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.

Described herein is technology for data center monitoring optimization and control that leverages data from multiple components of the data center data center related hardware and external data sources. For example as described herein a DCICS can communicate with multiple components of the data center and or external data sources to collect data relating to and or affecting the operation of the data center data center operations data . The DCICS can modify the operation or operational state of the data center based on the collected data center operations data.

While the description references specific technologies system architectures operational control and data management techniques practitioners will appreciate that this description is but various embodiments and that other devices and or methods may be implemented without departing from the scope of the invention. While the embodiments described herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and mechanical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration only and not of limitation.

For the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures are intended to represent functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in various embodiments.

The benefits provided by this disclosure and technology include for example increased efficiency of data center operations reduced risk lower costs increased hardware and power utilization increased reliability increased profitability increased security increased resiliency etc. For example by leveraging the collected data center operations data data center monitoring can be improved the data center can operate at a higher efficiency and the amount and impact failures within the data center can be reduced.

The technology described herein can utilize a DCICS to collect data center operations data and or control the operation of the data center. For example the DCICS can communicate with and collect data from various components of the data center and systems or layers associated with an information technology IT stack including data center infrastructure e.g. utilities environmental management equipment power generation and distribution equipment power backup equipment data center modules data center facilities etc. IT equipment in the data center e.g. PCs servers storage devices networking equipment etc. software executing on IT equipment in or associated with the data center e.g. virtualization systems operating systems user applications etc. and or users in communication with any of the above. In various embodiments the technology can collect data from external data sources such as sources for weather data seismic data political data economic e.g. energy price changes financial and or news data. DCICS can consolidate aggregate analyze process and or distill the collected information for analysis storage and or presentation to data center operators.

In various embodiments DCICS can analyze the collected data for its impact on data center operations and performance. For example the collected data can be analyzed in approximately real time to assess current data center operations and or forecast future data center operations operational conditions constraints needs costs capabilities preferred or optimal configurations etc. DCICS can store and analyze collected information to determine why certain events associated with data center operations occurred and various DCICS can execute various decision and control engines to develop and evaluate alternative data center configurations and implement changes in the operational configuration or operational state of data centers.

Data center infrastructure can include for example utilities environmental management equipment power generation and distribution equipment power backup equipment data center modules and data center facilities. DCICS can collect data center operations data from data center modules within a modular data center. For example DCICS can collect data from one or more modular data centers and or data center modules as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 751 568 filed Jan. 28 2013 and entitled Modular Data Center the content of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety. In various embodiments DCICS can collect data center operations data from traditional data centers such as raised floor facilities. DCICS can send instructions e.g. via data communications control signal etc. to data center infrastructure . For example DCICS can cause the cooling equipment within a data center or data center module to increase lower the temperature humidity etc. in the data center or data center module .

In various embodiments DCICS may communicate with hardware elements e.g. data center infrastructure hardware etc. via translator . Translator may be implemented as special purpose hardware software or a combination of hardware and software elements. In various embodiments translator enables 150 vendor protocol languages such as BACNet Modbus and Ethernet IP over a variety of media types such as Ethernet and RS 232 485 to communicate with DCICS . Translator is specially configured custom designed and built hardware that speaks vendor protocol languages and then translates them into one language e.g. OPC that is understood by DCICS .

The translation capability of translator enables enterprise wide collection storage and display functions for a wide variety of data center infrastructure equipment including building management power distribution and IT systems. Communications management is centralized and simplified into a single platform accessible by DCICS . In various embodiments translator can easily be expanded through plug and play device drivers client interfaces and hardware units. In various hardware embodiments of the translator there is abundant room inside the translator enclosure for adding or removing snap in components allowing translator to be customized for virtually any application.

IT hardware can include for example PCs servers storage devices networking equipment and other computing devices located in one or more data centers. For example in various embodiments DCICS can collect or obtain temperature data and or utilization data from for example one or more processor cores within a server bandwidth utilization data from one or more network switches or routers storage capacity information from one or more storage devices etc. DCICS can send control instructions and or signals to IT hardware for example DCICS can cause a server in the data center to power cycle increase reduce internal fan speed etc.

Virtualization layer can include for example virtualization software for managing usage and provisioning of IT hardware e.g. instances of VMWARE software running on IT hardware . DCICS can collect data about the status hardware allocation and hardware utilization of virtual machines resident on one or more servers. DCICS can send instructions to virtualization layer for example via an API. For example DCICS can cause an instance of virtualization software to move a virtual machine to another physical server at a different geographic location.

Operating system can include for example instances of MICROSOFT WINDOWS LINUX MAC OS X UNIX etc. running on IT hardware natively or on virtual machines and or partitions . For example DCICS can collect data about the status of the operating system such as system load and which applications are running and or loaded in memory. DCICS can control data center hardware and software for example by sending instructions to operating system . In various embodiments DCICS can cause the operating system instance to execute and or terminate an application.

Application can include instances of applications e.g. web server enterprise management database payroll supply chain etc. software running on IT hardware . For example DCICS can collect data about an application s activity level execution schedule and anticipated duration. DCICS can send instructions to application . For example DCICS can initiate application cause an application to execute a job another application a procedure a data communication etc.

User can include applications and or devices communicating with IT hardware located in the one more data centers managed by DCICS . For example DCICS can collect data from user about distributing workloads across IT hardware . DCICS can send instructions to user .

Beneficially by collecting data from and issuing instructions to data center infrastructure IT hardware virtualization layer operating system application and user DCICS can more efficiently and completely monitor analyze manage predict decide optimize and control the operation of data centers. For example the efficiency of application can be increased by utilizing data center operations data from data center infrastructure .

Data center can include resources in the same building. For example data center data center and data center can be housed in the same building. Data center can include resources in geographically diverse locations. For example data center can be in the United States data center can be in Brazil and data center can be in Singapore.

Beneficially the technology described herein can facilitate management and control of heterogeneous data centers and other IT data communications power distribution and climate control resources. For example in various embodiments DCICS manages coordinates and controls data centers including a mixture of traditional e.g. raised floor data centers and modular data centers that may be geographically diverse and include heterogeneous and or non standard configurations of data center infrastructure and IT assets.

Referring now to data center module depicts a cross section view of an embodiment of a data center module. One or more of modules can be structured and or operate as described with respect to data center module . Data center module contains floor that divides the interior of data center module into above floor space and sub floor space. Data center module can contain IT equipment . In the illustrated embodiment data center module contains air handler unit AHU which is supplied chilled fluid by chilled fluid supply pipe and fluid return pipe . In various embodiments chilled fluid supply pipe is connected to AHU via a modulated valve. In various embodiments the amount the modulated valve is open can be controlled via control instructions from DCICS . Data center module contains flexible barrier .

IT equipment can be in fluid communication with pressurized plenum . Pressurized plenum can have one or more pressure sources such as AHU . AHU can include a variable speed variable frequency drive fan. AHU can be in communication with pressurized plenum and configured to increase the pressure within pressurized plenum . For example in response to receiving an instruction from DCICIS AHU may activate its fan. IT equipment can separate the above floor space into cold aisle and hot aisle . In the illustrated embodiment cold aisle and hot aisle can provide technicians access to the IT equipment . Flexible barrier can facilitate separation of cold aisle and hot aisle alone and or in conjunction with IT equipment . It will be recognized that the use of the term aisle is suggestive of some embodiments and that the spaces or areas described as cold aisle and hot aisle can be of any shape configuration or size.

AHU can increase the pressure within pressurized plenum to generate a pressure differential between cold aisle and hot aisle causing air to flow across and or through IT equipment . The flow of air across and or through IT equipment can remove heat from IT equipment resulting in heated air . AHU by use of for example a heat exchanger can remove the heat from heated air . In various embodiments AHU utilizes a vapor compression cycle heat exchanger. AHU can transfer the heat to chilled fluid from chilled fluid supply pipe and expel the heated fluid via fluid return pipe .

Data center module can include temperature and or humidity sensors and which can for example measure the temperature and or humidity of air in cold aisle and hot aisle respectively. Data center module can include AHU output temperature and or humidity sensor which can measure the temperature and or the humidity of air leaving AHU . Data center module can include pressure sensors for measuring the differential pressure between cold aisle and hot aisle . Data center module can contain a power distribution unit PDU not shown in . A PDU can distribute power to AHU IT equipment and other electrical equipment in data center module . A PDU can for example measure the power consumption of AHU or IT equipment individually and provide this data to DCICS .

In various embodiments data center module controller integrates safety motion discrete and drive capabilities in a single controller. data center module controller may include compact I O modules. In various embodiments data center module controller include built in RS 232 serial ports built in communication ports for EtherNet IP or ControlNet networks a communication interface module for I O control and remote device configuration compact I O modules providing a compact DIN rail or panel mounted I O system. Software modules or compiled machine language instructions may be developed compiled and installed on data center module . In various embodiments data center module enables relay ladder structured text function block diagram and sequential function chart editors to develop application programs which can be downloaded to data center controller memory. For example programs may send control instuctions to module hardware and software components measure outside air humidity damper positions air flow rate of the fans and more for the various equipment and device sensors wired to the I O modules. In various embodiments data center module controller exchanges information with DCICS in real time.

Business intelligence and data warehouse database can include any data related to the operation of the data centers managed tracked controlled or stored by DCICS . In various embodiments business intelligence and data warehouse database can implement computer based techniques used in identifying extracting and enable analyzing business data such as sales revenue by products and or departments and or by associated costs and incomes. Business intelligence and data warehouse database can provide historical current and predictive views of business operations. For example business intelligence and data warehouse database can perform reporting online analytical processing analytics data mining process mining complex event processing business performance management benchmarking text mining forecasting and predictive analytics.

Central Data Manger can access data from central database and present it to a user e.g. user via a user interface of a client device an application programming interface API etc. . Data quality monitor can check data to verify that transactions are occurring and validate that the transactions are producing the expected results. For example data quality monitor can sample the database tables in central database periodically to ensure that central database is operating. In various embodiments data quality monitor checks for data central database that violates business rules and data quality monitor creates and sends an email report on data validation issues.

Network monitor can communicate with IT equipment to determine for example the status of IT equipment . In various embodiments network monitor is an extensible tool that brings measurements from networked devices into DCICS where they can be stored and viewed. In various embodiments network monitor can monitor for example devices that support SNMP simple network monitoring protocol VMWare virtual machines EMU storage arrays other types of devices utilizing Microsoft Windows PowerShell.

Notification processor can generate notifications based on the occurrence of an event data forecast etc. In various embodiments notifications may be system notifications emails text message automated phone calls tweets operating system level messages e.g. iOS notification etc.

Portal web services can manage web based customer interactions. In various embodiments data from portal web services can be directed to customers and or data center management personnel e.g. for addressing customer issues . Interface services can provide web based user interfaces.

Open Process Control OPC Server is a software application that acts as an API or protocol converter. In various embodiments OPC Server can connect to a device such as for example a programmer logic controller distributed control system remote terminal unit and or or a data source such as a database or user interface and translate the data into a standards based OPC format.

OPC client can provide a logger to process real time data from OPC server . In various embodiments OPC client can permit parallel writes as well as priority driven queuing of writes. OPC server can receive data center operations data from controller e.g. a controller located in or operatively connected to a data center module such as data center module controller . While the illustrated embodiment utilizes OPC data can be exchanged in any format. Connectivity server can facilitate access to controller . OPC converter can convert data from connectivity server to OPC format as necessary.

DCICS can manage and control various types of data centers. DCICS can manage standalone data center . Standalone data center can include one or more data center modules. Standalone data center can use module database to store collected data center operations data for standalone data center . In various embodiments in the event of a network outage between standalone data center and central database module database can be used to monitor and or control standalone data center . Replication server can maintain synchronization between module database and central database .

Centralized data center can operate in a manner similar to standalone data center . In various embodiments such as the one depicted in centralized data center stores data to a central database e.g. central DB . In various embodiments in the event of a network outage between centralized data center and central database data relating to the operation of centralized data center may not be available centrally but the data relating to the operation of centralized data center can be buffered and provided to central database when the connection is restored.

Traditional data center may be for instance a raised floor data center. In various embodiments traditional data center can include sensors e.g. temperature humidity pressure motion detection access control acoustic biometric etc. . Sensor data can be collected by OPC server . In various embodiments OPC server can communicate with IT equipment located in traditional data center . In various embodiments OPC server may exchange data with translator and or data center module controller e.g. CTL in .

In various embodiments DCICS can track components e.g. logical and physical hardware software systems of data centers. In various embodiments DCICS can group components of the data centers into partitions. The term partition includes any logical or physical grouping of one or data center assets hardware or software . For example a partition can be defined to include a single server multiple data center modules and everything contained therein and or a partition can be defined to include an entire data center or group of data centers. In various embodiments a partition may be associated with individual data center assets individual sensors etc.

Task engine monitors changes to data collection points. In various embodiments in order to monitor changes to data task engine may poll the data collection points poll a database e.g. central DB receive data from a database e.g via a database trigger receive changes made by a user etc. In various embodiments task engine detects a change made by a user to threshold or setpoint information associated with one or more data collection points. In an embodiment task engine includes an extender that enables modular plug ins to be added to a task manager e.g. of a computer s operating system so that DCICS can perform tasks such as commanding an application system or computing environment e.g. VMware environment to gracefully shut down or start up a virtual machine. In various embodiments task engine associates data collection points to a shell command utility of an operating system e.g. Windows PowerShell commands allowing commands to be executed in response to users changing the setpoints e.g. thresholds data collection point from within DCICS . Evaluation Engine

An exemplary technique for managing the environmental conditions e.g. provide cooling for IT equipment within a data center module is described below with reference to data center module of . As described above one or more AHUs can be used to manage the environmental conditions e.g. provide cooling for IT equipment within a data center module. In various embodiments a cold aisle temperature set point e.g. a desired air temperature in cold aisle can be provided. For example a user may use dashboard to update central database with set point information. In various embodiments DCICS may derive or calculate a cold aisle temperature setpoint can based on for example the cooling needs of IT equipment the comfort of operators of IT equipment etc. AHU can provide chilled air to maintain air in cold aisle at approximately the cold aisle temperature set point. In various embodiments AHU can provide chilled air to maintain air in cold aisle at approximately the cold aisle temperature set point by controlling the amount of energy extracted e.g. cooling from heated air .

In various embodiments aspects of the operation of AHU can be monitored and controlled by a DCICS e.g. DCICS . For example DCICS generate and communicate instructions to modulate a fan speed of AHU and a valve that controls the flow rate of chilled fluid chilled fluid control valve or CCV into AHU and data center module controller can issue the instructions to the respective hardware devices. Modulating fan speed or CCV can affect the temperature of air in cold aisle . For example modulating the CCV to increase the flow rate of chilled fluid into AHU can lower the temperature of air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air thereby lowering the temperature of air in cold aisle . As another example modulating the fan speed of AHU can increase the amount of air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air thereby lowering the temperature of air in cold aisle . In various embodiments modulation of the fan speed and or CCV can be used to maintain air in cold aisle at approximately the cold aisle temperature set point.

PID can control PID e.g. by providing a set point temperature for air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air . PID can control PID e.g. by providing a set point temperature for air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air .

Control system can receive a set point e.g. cold aisle temperature set point . Control system can receive a present value e.g. the present temperature of air in cold aisle via temperature and or humidity sensor . Based on the difference between the present value and the set point PID can increase or decrease the set point provided to PID . For example if the present value exceeds the set point e.g. the present temperature of air in cold aisle exceeds the cold aisle temperature set point PID can lower the set point temperature for air leaving AHU provided to PID . Based on the difference between the present value and the set point PID can increase or decrease the set point provided to PID .

In various embodiments lowering temperature of the chilled air by increasing the flow rate of chilled fluid into AHU can be more efficient and or preferable to increasing the fan speed of AHU . Offset can be used to increase the set point received by PID thereby causing PID to decrease the set point provided to PID at a higher present value temperature than the present value temperature at which PID can decrease the set point provided to PID .

Inhibit can inhibit decreases in the temperature set point provided to PID e.g. temperature set point for air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air . In various embodiments inhibit can prevent the temperature set point provided to PID from going below a dew point temperature a dew point temperature range or a predetermined threshold above the dew point temperature. In various embodiments inhibit can prevent the temperature set point provided to PID from going lower when CCV is fully open. In various embodiments when inhibit prevents decreases in the temperature set point provided to PID inhibit prevents PID from increasing the temperature set point provided to PID .

In various embodiments present value can be the cold aisle temperature. In various embodiments present value can be the hot aisle temperature e.g. the temperature of air in hot aisle as measured by temperature and or humidity sensor . In various embodiments present value can be the planar or processor temperature of IT equipment. In various embodiments switch can control whether present value is from an external source e.g. sensor measuring the temperature of IT equipment planar or processor or internal source e.g. sensor measuring the cold aisle temperature .

While the described embodiment controls AHU it should be appreciated that control system can control the operation of one or more data center assets e.g. IT infrastructure hardware . In various embodiments a module e.g. module of can contain multiple AHUs e.g. 4 6 or 8 AHUs . Control module can control the CCV and fan motor for each of the AHUs as described above. In various embodiments a module can be divided into zones e.g. divided into two zones that can each operate as described above e.g. the operation of AHUs in each zone are controlled separately from AHUs in other zones based on set points for each zone .

In various embodiments an AHU can be In Service or Out of Service. An In Service AHU can have its fan speed set to greater than 0 e.g. the fan is rotating and the CCV can be set to greater 0 e.g. the valve permits chilled fluid to enter the AHU . An Out of Service AHU can have its fan speed set to 0 e.g. the fan is not rotating and the CCV can be set to 0 e.g. the valve is closed . In various embodiments one or more AHUs can be In Service and operate as described above. In various embodiments when inhibit prevents decreases in the temperature set point provided to PID one or more Out of Service AHUs can be changed to In Service thereby increasing the cooling capacity available.

In various embodiments control system can be housed in a data center module e.g. in pressurized plenum of data center module . In various embodiments a data center module controller e.g. data center module controller can implement control system . In various embodiments control system can be a part of DCICS .

If the pressure differential is within the predetermined range the method proceeds to step where the temperature is measured. For example the temperature of air in cold aisle can be determined via temperature and or humidity sensor . At step it is determined if the temperature is within a predetermined range. For example a desired air temperature range in cold aisle can be identified e.g. a cold aisle temperature set point . If the measured temperature is not within the predetermined range the CCV can be adjusted at step . For example as described above modulating the CCV to increase the flow rate of chilled fluid into AHU can lower the temperature of air leaving AHU e.g. chilled air thereby lowering the temperature of air in cold aisle . If the measured temperature is within the predetermined range the method returns to step .

The technology described herein can include techniques for monitoring analyzing and controlling a data center. As described above DCICS can access data center operations data associated with for example data center infrastructure IT hardware virtualization layer operating system application and user shown in . The data center operations data can be analyzed thereby permitting real time or near real time monitoring of the operation of the data center.

In various embodiments DCICS accesses data associated with various operational systems or subsystems of a data center infrastructure. Such systems include environmental information technology power delivery energy recovery etc. Data is accessed via data collection points which in various embodiments may include data sources sensors detectors status indicators operational control indicators mechanical settings IT hardware characteristics and state information software system attribute and setting parameters etc. For example such data access points can include controllers humidity sensors fire detectors smoke detectors high sensitivity smoke detectors very early smoke detection apparatuses moisture detectors spot leak detectors pressure sensors intrusion detectors valve indicators e.g. control return valve position indicators supply valve position indicator etc. power input monitors power output monitors fan speed indicators and fan direction indicators.

In various embodiments such environmental systems include Fire Detection e.g. alarm high sensitivity smoke detector HSSD Fire Suppression alarm panel reset Temperature e.g. internal external cold aisle hot aisle etc. Pressure e.g. module differential pressure Humidity relative humidity dew point control humidity and Lead detection spot leak detectors .

In various embodiments such IT systems include Server e.g. server CPU RAM disk fan speed temperature Network e.g. throughput routing information firewalls alerts SNMP based Virtualization e.g. manage and monitor both virtual workloads IT hardware characteristics and state information and Software system attribute and setting parameters.

In various embodiments such power delivery systems include Generators e.g. generator load and status fuel level oil pressure remote control stop and start etc. UPS e.g. input and output total load of UPS power factor PDU e.g. branch circuit monitoring input output load etc. and Switchgear e.g. input output bus demand current power factor etc. .

In various embodiments such energy recovery systems include Chillers e.g. supply and return temperature system pressure control outlet temperature set point etc. Air Handlers e.g. inlet outlet temperature control coil demand fan mode fan speed fan on off filter hours etc. and Valves e.g. heat removal differential pressure flow valve position control return valve position supply valve position etc. .

The technology can include techniques for specifying how data center operations data is identified aggregated and analyzed. In various embodiments the technology includes a scripting language for specifying how data center operations data is aggregated and analyzed along with aggregating and analyzing the data as specified. In various embodiments an expression in the language for specifying how data center operations data is aggregated and analyzed can have the following syntax 

In the expression above input set is the source e.g. set of data collection points in the data center from which to collect data center operations data to aggregate and analyze and operation is the operation to perform on the input set. input set can be specified by for example data collection point type device type partition membership containing system etc. from which to collect the data center operations data. The input set can include other expressions. Example input sets follow. In the examples the input set members are specified using Uniform Resource Names but in various embodiments other manners of identifying the input set members can be used.

 urn NID sensortype Temp specifies the input set as data from all temperature sensors in the data center.

 urn NID partition 1918 urn NID sensortype Temp specifies the input set as data from all temperature sensors in partition 1918.

 urn NID device ba3e38b9 de9d e011 ba7c 005056876935 urn NID sensortype 136 urn NID sensortype 1086 specifies the input set as data from all power meters of type 135 and 1086 in the PDU identified as urn NID device ba3e38b9 de9d e011 ba7c 005056876935.

In the expression above operation is the operation to perform on the data from the input set. For example the operation can be a mathematical equation algorithm or stochastic method. In various embodiments operations include SUM e.g. the summation of all data from sensors in input set MAX e.g. the maximum value of all data from sensors in input set MIN e.g. the minimum value of all data from sensors in input set MEAN e.g. the mean of all data from sensors in input set STDEV e.g. standard deviation and COUNT e.g. the number of data items from sensors in input set . Performance of the operation on data from the data collection points in input set can produce a result e.g. a numeric value .

In various embodiments the result of an expression of the form input set operation can be used in an arithmetic operation such as addition subtraction division or multiplication. In various embodiments data from a single data collection point e.g. a single sensor or a plurality of data collection points can be used in an arithmetic operation with the result of an expression of the form input set operation.

DCICS can include an execution engine for performing the aggregation and analysis specified by an expression. The technology can receive an expression specifying how to aggregate and analyze data center operations data e.g. in the syntax above and aggregate and analyze the data as specified. In various embodiments DCICS can receive an expression e.g. as a text string in any non compiled form etc. . The expression can indicate a set of data collection points within one or more of data center and or and an operation to perform on data from those sensors. In various embodiments DCICS can generate machine code instructions based on the expression e.g. by just in time compilation wherein the machine code instructions include instructions to aggregate and analyze the data as specified.

DCICS can execute the machine code instructions generating a result of the operation. In various embodiments DCICS can query a database containing data center operations data e.g. central database to collect data from data collection points specified in the input set. In various embodiments the DCICS can collect the data directly from the data collection points e.g. directly from a sensor from a sensor via a translator from a sensor via an OPC client etc specified in the input set.

In various embodiments the result can be interpreted by DCICS shown on a display and or stored to a data base e.g. central database . In various embodiments DCICS determines a control instruction based upon the result and executing the control instruction causes a change in the operational state of a data center and or a data center asset e.g. data center system IT hardware software etc. .

In various embodiments DCICS can update the result of an operation when underlying data changes. For example if the expression specifies averaging all temperature data from all temperature sensors in a data center module DCICS can update the result of the operation whenever data from one or more of the temperature sensors changes. In various embodiments DCICS determines that point data from at least one of the data collection points has changed and executes based upon the point data machine code instructions to produce a second result of an operation. DCICS may further determine based upon the second result a second control instruction.

Embodiments of this disclosure include systems and methods of monitoring analyzing and controlling data centers and related hardware and software. In an embodiment a DCICS determines based upon a first expression a first operation and data collection points associated with data center assets. Data collection points may include sensors indicators detectors system data etc. In various embodiments the expression may be obtained from a database received via an API received via user input received or obtained from another system or a hardware device etc. In various embodiments the expression may be derived or generated by the DCICS based upon for example other expressions data or events.

DCICS interprets and or analyzes the expression and generates machine code instructions that may include for example instructions to obtain the first point data from the data collection points and to perform the operation based upon the first point data. In various embodiments the instructions may include instructions for obtaining receiving or retrieving the first point data. In some situations the operation may be recursive and or dependent upon the first point data. For instance the operation itself may iterate and one or more interactions may themselves be dependent upon a nested calculation updated data simulated data a previous iteration etc.

DCICS executes the machine code instructions to produce a first result of the first operation. In various embodiments in response to producing the first result DCICS examines or analyzes the first result and determines a first control instruction. Executing the first control instruction causes a change in an operational state of at least one of a data center asset and a data center.

In various embodiments determining the first control instruction may comprise generating the first control instruction analyzing historical data analyzing external data performing a forecast simulation or other predictive analytics performing an optimization receiving user input etc. For example DCICS may process an expression or a plurality of expressions that is associated with the processing capability e.g. load utilization etc. on a particular set of data center assets such as servers storage devices and or networking devices. DCICS analyzes the result of the operation associated with the expression and may determine that those data center assets are at risk of failing or performing below a required performance threshold. DCICS may examine for example one or more of historical data data center asset profile information performance data capability data service level agreement data and performance needs forecasts.

Based upon this analysis DCICS may determine that a new operational state of the data center that is achieved by moving a software application to a different set of data center assets would help mitigate operational risk. DCICS may identify a new or preferred configuration identify a workflow to implement the change and generate instructions for executing such a change.

In various embodiments DCICS may at least one of execute partially execute the control instruction and communicate the control instruction to a hardware device e.g. controller and or software program for execution.

In various embodiments the control instruction may include machine code instructions an API call an electrical signal a trigger object code script etc. Executing the control instruction causes a change in the operational state of a data center data center asset and or or a data center system. The control instruction may include instructions that cause for example moving data from a first data storage device to a second data storage device moving a software application from a first computing device to a second computing device terminating a software application initiating a software application initiating a virus protection strategy implementing an intrusion prevention strategy creating a user permission revoking a user permission shutting down a computing device adjusting an operating temperature initiating a fire suppression system turning on an air handler shutting down an air handler adjusting a fan speed adjusting a valve locking a door unlocking a door locking an access panel and unlocking an access panel.

In various embodiments moving a software application from a first computing device to a second computing device may include the first computing device in a separate physical location from the first computing device the first computing device and or the second computing device being virtual machines and or creating a virtual computing device.

DCICS can verify the change in the operational state. For example DCICS obtains data from data collection points analyzes the data and determines whether the desired operational state has been achieved. In various embodiments DCICS may generate an expression for verifying that the operational state has been changed. Generating an expression may include one or more of deriving calculating or receiving the expression.

In various embodiments verifying the change in the operational state may include determining a control operation result and or analyzing second point data where the control operation result is based upon the executing the first control instruction and where the second point data is obtained from the data collection points. The control operation result might be determined and or obtained for example from the controller a database and or data collection points. In various embodiments DCICS may analyze the control operation result the second point data and or the change in the operational state and determine a second operation or a second expression.

In various embodiments DCICS can use for example one or more of a business rule a proprietary algorithm external input an interfacing system artificial intelligence simulations and other deterministic or stochastic predictive analytics to determine operational states of data centers or data center assets evaluate or predict data center asset attributes e.g. risk state power capability physical space cooling capability networking capability redundancy capability geographic proximity etc. .

DCICS can develop alternative strategies for transitioning to an optimal or preferred operational state and or minimizing risk for data center assets such as for example a data center a plurality of data centers a partition an application a functional capability e.g. combination of application and performance capabilities an enterprise s IT infrastructure etc. Such data center assets may be physically located in multiple data centers and or in geographically diverse locations. In developing such alternative strategies DCICS can access profile product configuration sales utilization performance constraint and data center asset attribute data from a database such as central database BI Warehouse CRM accounting etc. In various embodiments DCICS includes a complete set of data entry design and maintenance graphical user interfaces that enable design entry maintenance and visualization of data center asset information.

Based upon for example data collected determined operational states and alternative strategies developed DCICS can direct control mechanisms to manipulate operational conditions and configurations and transition data center assets e.g. hardware and software to new operational states. For example DCICS may send an instruction to data center module controller to translator to OPC client and or directly to a data center hardware or software component.

In general DCICS can collect data from one or more data sources where each data source of the one or more data sources relates to the operation of the data center. For example as described above the DCICS can collect access and or obtain data from data center infrastructure IT hardware virtualization layer operating system application and user . Based on the collected data the technology can identify a current operational state of the data center. Generally an operational state refers to a past present or future status of a data center asset or component a partition or grouping of data center assets an entire data center and or multiple data centers.

In various embodiments DCICS determines one or more alternative operational states for the data center based on for example the current operational state a portion of the collected data and one or more pre defined criteria. DCICS can identify a desired operational state of the one or more alternative operational states. The technology can utilize one or more data center controls to transition the data center to the desired operational state.

DCICS employs intelligent control to optimize data center operations. In various embodiments DCICS accesses inventory data operational data historical data and external data collectively input data determines data center optimization dimensions produces predictive data determines an optimization action based upon data center optimization dimensions the predictive data and input data generates an optimization instruction based upon the optimization action. Execution of the optimization instruction causes a change in an operational state associated with the data center operations. In various embodiments DCICS is configured to collect data in order to verify and or validate the change in the operational state.

Data center optimization dimensions may include for example reliability redundancy resiliency risk latency efficiency cost and threat avoidance. In various embodiments a redundancy rating of 2N N 1 N etc. may be assigned to certain power and cooling capabilities.

In various embodiments accessing input data comprises identifying and analyzing the input data. For example identifying input data may include receiving input obtaining from a data source calculating and forecasting. The data source may include for example a historical database e.g. central DB BI Warehouse a customer relationship management database e.g. CRM a data warehouse e.g. BI Warehouse a product catalog an accounting system the internet a government data source a vendor database a utility system a power system a security system a network provider system and data collection points associated with the data center operations.

Analyzing the input data may include analyzing a plurality of data center assets based upon optimization dimensions. For example DCICS may determine that a suite of applications enabled by a data center should be moved in order to reduce latency balance a load and free up some physical space. DCICS may analyze a number of data center assets based upon optimization dimensions e.g. reliability resiliency risk latency efficiency cost and threat avoidance and based upon data center asset attributes e.g. risk state power capability physical space cooling capability networking capability redundancy capability and geographic proximity .

In various embodiments analyzing the input data includes retrieving mining parsing validating obtaining and or analyzing the input data to identify at least one of customer data configuration data product data sales data service level agreement SLA data processing requirements storage requirements network bandwidth requirements cost data revenue data and revenue by product data.

In various embodiments DCICS can identify a plurality of optimization actions. Identifying an optimization action can include DCICS performing a proprietary algorithm performing a simulation performing artificial intelligence performing a stochastic method receiving user input and executing a linear programming model. Based upon the optimization dimensions DCICS may determine an optimization score for each of the identified optimization actions. For example a redundancy optimization dimension analysis may ensure that alternative data center assets under consideration have sufficient cooling and or power redundancy ratings in order to support processing storage and network capacity needed a latency optimization dimension analysis may ensure that alternative data center assets under consideration have sufficiently high network bandwidth capability and low latency estimations in order to support business objective and or service level agreements.

In various embodiments DCICS monitors and controls physical security of data centers. For example the DCICS can monitor the physical security of a partition analyze collected data perform forecasts simulations and risk analysis develop scenarios for improving the operational state pick a preferred scenario develop a set of actions e.g. workflow to implement the new operational state and execute or communicate control instructions to implement the actions and adjust the operational state e.g. to improve physical security .

Individuals and or groups of individuals can be assigned physical access rights to data centers and data center assets. Exemplary rights include entry through exterior doors of the data center entry through interior doors of the data center entry through data center module doors access to IT Hardware cabinets access to particular infrastructure equipment etc.

DCICS can obtain data center operations data associated with the physical security of a partition and a current operational state. For example DCICS can collect data about physical barriers such as which doors are opened closed or locked unlocked IT hardware cabinets such as which cabinets or panels are opened closed or locked unlocked and the presence of individuals in the partition e.g. by use of facial recognition biometrics card reader etc. . DCICS can also identify access rights data for recognized individuals. DCICS can determine that the person attempting to access a partition has been assigned access rights to the partition and should be allowed physical access. DCICS may alter the operational state of the partition by unlocking a door and or cabinet. In various embodiments DCICS can determine that the person attempting to access the partition has not been assigned access rights to the partition and should not be allowed physical access.

Based on the data center operations data DCICS can cause one or more changes such as grant restrict access to perimeter gates entrance doors gates service corridors service galleries rooms cages lock doors service hatches racks housing IT hardware lock various service equipment including power distribution units controllers air handling units trigger alerts to administrators and log equipment accessed and activity inside the partition.

In various embodiments the technology can monitor for a natural disaster flood earthquake fire etc. and adjust the operation the data center based on the data collected. In various embodiments DCICS can monitor for natural disasters that can affect the operation of the data center. For example using sniffers connected to smoke and or fire detection sensors DCICS can detect fires and formulate appropriate response actions identify an optimal action and utilize control functions to implement the action. In various embodiments DCICS can detect earthquakes from vibration detectors in the monitored partition from an external information source such as U.S. Geological Service USGS seismic data and or by performing a risk analysis or forecast based detected data user input external information forecast modules and historical data. DCICS can detect moisture or floods using leak sensors in a partition or from an external information source such as external weather data.

In various embodiments if a natural disaster is predicted or detected DCICS can determine the type or category of the disaster e.g. fire flood earthquake etc. and determine alternative data center assets e.g. computing storage networking etc. assets available to provide services memory CPU storage network connectivity to applications running in the partition affected by the natural disaster.

In various embodiments DCICS can rank the alternative data center assets based on one or more of user device application IT hardware business rules e.g. a priority assignment and or data center rules any of which may be retrieved from a database received from a system derived as part of an analysis determined based upon a pre determined assignment received via user input etc.

DCICS can present the alternative data center assets to the operator of the partition affected by the natural disaster to facilitate dynamically transferring the applications running in the partition affected by the natural disaster to one or more of the alternative data center assets. In various embodiments DCICS can cause such a transfer without operator interaction e.g. systematic automated transfer to the identified alternative data center asset s .

In various embodiments DCICS can determine potential alternative data center assets based on and or by determining one or more of the following risk level e.g. determine whether the alternative data center asset is not also under an unacceptable risk state fire flood etc. whether the alternative data center asset has sufficient power to support the processing storage networking etc. needed whether the alternative data center asset has sufficient storage capacity to support the processing storage networking needed whether the alternative data center asset has sufficient cooling available to support the processing storage networking needed whether the alternative data center asset has sufficient networking to support the processing storage networking needed whether the alternative data center asset has sufficient power and or cooling redundancy e.g. 2N N 1 N etc. to support the processing storage networking needed and whether the alternative data center asset is within an acceptable geographical proximity to the partition affected by the natural disaster. In various embodiments any of the above can be a binary value e.g. yes or no . In various embodiments any of the above can be a range of values.

The technology can monitor logical security e.g. monitor for network intrusion . In various embodiments DCICS receives data center operations data relating to intrusions from an intrusion detection system IDS . The IDS can for example use pattern matching on router logs to detect logical intrusions or logical intrusion attempts . DCICS can determine alternative data center assets e.g. computing storage networking etc. assets available e.g. with current and or future capacity to accommodate applications running in the partition affected by the intrusion.

In various embodiments DCICS can rank the alternative data center assets based on a priority assignment determined by the operator of the partition affected by the logical intrusion. In various embodiments DCICS can rank the alternative data center assets based on one or more of user device application IT Hardware business rules and or data center rules. In various embodiments DCICS can present the alternative data center assets to the operator of the partition affected by the logical intrusion to facilitate dynamically transferring the applications running in the partition affected by the logical intrusion to one or more of the alternative data center assets. In various embodiments DCICS can cause the transfer without operator interaction e.g. by automatically transferring to the highest ranked alternative data center assets .

In various embodiments DCICS can determine potential alternative data center assets based on one or more of the following asset utilization utilization forecasts physical security logical security current latency utility costs power capacity or availability cooling capability physical space network providers network bandwidth network redundancy power redundancy a scope or type of intrusion inbound outbound application based networked based etc. known techniques used to terminate the intrusion present intrusion evasion techniques including alternative data center assets which may have a lower risk profile.

In various embodiments DCICS can mitigate the risk of intrusion by for example shutting down network connectivity issuing alarms to partitions affected by the logical intrusion alerting users of partitions affected by the logical intrusion etc.

The technology can monitor latency e.g. the network latency encountered by applications running on IT equipment in the data center . In various embodiments DCICS can receive data center operations data relating to latency from network monitors. DCICS can determine alternative data center assets e.g. computing storage networking etc. assets available e.g. with capacity to accommodate applications running in the partition affected by high latency. In various embodiments DCICS can rank the alternative data center assets based on a priority assignment determined by the operator of the partition affected by the high latency. In various embodiments DCICS can rank the alternative data center assets based on one or more of user device application IT Hardware business rules and or data center rules. DCICS can present the alternative data center assets to the operator of the partition affected by the high latency to facilitate dynamically transferring the applications running in the partition affected by the high latency to one or more of the alternative data center assets. In various embodiments DCICS can cause the transfer without operator interaction e.g. by automatically transferring to the highest ranked alternative data center assets .

In various embodiments DCICS can determine potential alternative data center assets based on one or more of the following asset utilization utilization forecasts physical security logical security current latency utility costs power capacity or availability power utilization effectiveness cooling capability physical space network providers network bandwidth network redundancy and power redundancy.

In determining alternative data center actions in order to optimize a latency optimization dimension DCICS may obtain information from any layer of the IT stack. The IT stack may include for example a user layer a virtualization layer an application layer an operating system layer an IT or hardware layer and a data center infrastructure layer.

In various embodiments the technology can monitor redundancy e.g. the redundancy of AHUs within a data center module . In various embodiments a data center management system can maintain a level of AHU redundancy e.g. N N 1 2N 2N 1 in a data center module by selectively enabling AHUs based on current power utilization in the data center module. For example if each AHU can provide cooling for 35 kW of IT equipment load and the data center module is maintaining 2N AHU redundancy the data center module can enable 2 AHUs under 50 kW of IT equipment load and 3 AHUs under 80 kW of IT equipment load.

The technology can involve acoustic monitoring. In various embodiments DCICS can receive acoustic data from acoustic sensors in the data center. In various embodiments DCICS can compare known good acoustic profiles to the received acoustic data and identify data center equipment as possibly failing or failed if its acoustic profile differs from the known good acoustic profiles. In various embodiments DCICS can compare known bad acoustic profiles to the received acoustic data and identify data center equipment as possibly failing or failed if its acoustic profile matches the known bad acoustic profiles.

In various embodiments DCICS includes a manufacturing resource planning MRP tool for identifying extracting and analyzing data center operational business and financial data in order to plan future data center operations. Thus DCICS provides data center planners and operators a real time tool which enables them to increase capacity and or capability in a just in time manner.

DCICS s MRP tool may generate data useful in such planning efforts. For instance DCICS may set flags indicating when to add cooling capacity at an individual data center asset e.g. data module level. In various embodiments such a cooling capacity flag may be set based upon for example an air handling unit capacity reaches some capacity of a running average of the overall power consumption within the data center. As disclosed previously an expression may be used to define data collection and operations to support such an analysis. In various embodiments. DCICS may track available power at various points in a data center. Such tracking may include granular data collection such as collecting data regarding power pulled from a substation to individual branch circuits within a data center power distribution infrastructure. Such data will allow DCICS to produce recommendations for increasing a data center infrastructure capacity e.g. order more data modules power modules UPSs PDUs etc.

The technology can monitor efficiency e.g. the power usage effectiveness for a partition . In various embodiments DCICS can receive data center operations data relating to power consumption. DCICS can determine alternative data center assets e.g. computing storage networking etc. assets available e.g. with capacity and appropriate capability to takeover any applications running in the partition and with lower power usage effectiveness e.g. as calculated below .

In various embodiments a power usage effectiveness PUE can be calculated. PUE can be a measure of how efficiently a data center operates. PUE can be defined as the ratio of total power consumed e.g. total power consumed by a data center to the total power made available to specified IT equipment for productive use e.g. the total power made available to servers for operating and running applications . The technology facilitates determining PUE for a data center as a whole and or for partitions within the data center. For example PUE can be determined for one or more data modules one or more racks of servers within one or more data modules or an individual server within a data module. More generally PUE can be determined for any partition within the data center.

As described above DCICS can collect data center operations data including data related to power generation and power consumption by the various components of the data centers that it monitors. depicts modular data center . Modular data center includes chiller module power module and data module . Data module can contain IT equipment . When data center is in operation chiller module can provide chilled fluid to power module and data module facilitating cooling of the equipment contained therein e.g. AHUs within power module and data module can utilize the chilled fluid to provide cooling as described above . Power module can receive power from a power source e.g. electric utility generator etc. . Power module can distribute power to data module . Data module can provide power to IT equipment for productive use.

In various embodiments DCICS can monitor chiller module input e.g. kW received by chiller module from an electric utility and chiller module output e.g. cooling capacity of the chilled fluid provided by chiller module . DCICS can monitor power module input e.g. kW received by power module from an electric utility . DCICS can monitor power module output e.g. kW received by data module from power module . DCICS can monitor Delivered IT Power e.g. kW delivered to the IT equipment for productive use .

DCICS can calculate PUE for any data center asset that receives power for productive use e.g. IT Equipment based on the Delivered IT Power to that IT equipment. In various embodiments Eq. 1 can be used to calculate PUE for the specified IT equipment 

Evaluating Eq. 1 with the values in the example above results in a PUE calculation of 1.29 rounded to the nearest tenth . It should be appreciated that PUE can be calculated for any IT equipment e.g. partitions including one or more servers based on the Delivered IT Power provided to the IT equipment.

The above described techniques can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program application or engine or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. Computer programs are configured to enable online and automated functions such as for example sending and receiving messages receiving query requests configuring responses dynamically configuring user interfaces requesting data sending control instructions receiving data parsing data displaying data executing complex processes interpreting scripts constructing database queries executing data base queries executing simulations calculations forecasts mathematical techniques workflows and or algorithms prompting users verifying user responses initiating processes initiating other computer programs triggering downstream systems and processes encrypting and decrypting.

Computer programs and other software elements may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified herein or in flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows web pages web sites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise in any number of configurations including the use of windows web pages web forms popup windows prompts and or the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single web pages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple web pages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. A computer comprises a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or can be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computing device coupled to or communicating with a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface and or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an example implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a web site having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that may be used to interact with the user. For example a typical web site may include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI Flash files or modules FLEX ActionScript extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS helper applications plug ins and or the like. A web site server or computer program may include a web service which includes applications that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means such as the Internet.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all of the claims of the invention.

Systems methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed description herein references to various embodiments one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. After reading the description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the disclosure in alternative embodiments.

It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples indicating embodiments of the invention are given for purposes of illustration only and not as limitations. Many changes and modifications within the scope of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications. Corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all elements are intended to include any structure material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other elements. Reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. Moreover when a phrase similar to one of A B or C or one of A B and C is used in the claims or the specification the phrase is intended to mean any of the following 1 at least one of A 2 at least one of B 3 at least one of C 4 at least one of A and at least one of B 5 at least one of B and at least one of C 6 at least one of A and at least one of C or 7 at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C.

