---

title: Popular media items data set with exponential decay
abstract: A processing device computes scores for a plurality of media items. A score for a media item is computed by determining a plurality of positive user actions associated with the media item, combining a plurality of score contributions from the plurality of positive user actions to determine a value for the score, and applying an exponential decay to the value for the score. The media items are ranked based on the scores. One or more of the media items that have not been featured on any external website or that fail to satisfy another filtering criterion are filtered. A popular media item data set is then populated with highest ranked media items from a remainder of the plurality of media items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092489&OS=09092489&RS=09092489
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09092489
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130308
---
The present disclosure generally relates to media hosting and streaming and more specifically to ranking the popularity of media items and generating a popular media items data set.

Video hosting servers may host millions of videos with new videos being constantly uploaded to those servers. Many users are interested in watching the most popular videos.

The following is a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope of the particular implementations of the disclosure or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In an implementation of the present disclosure a computing device computes scores for multiple media items such as videos. A score for a media item is computed by determining positive user actions associated with the media item combining score contributions from the positive user actions to determine a value for the score and applying an exponential decay to the value for the score. The media items are ranked based on the scores. One or more of the media items that have not been featured on any external website or that fail to satisfy another filtering criterion are filtered. A popular media item data set is then populated with highest ranked media items from a remainder of the media items.

In addition methods and systems for performing the operations of the above described implementations are also provided. Further a computer readable storage media is provided to store instructions for performing the operations of the above described implementations.

In one implementation a system includes means for computing scores for a plurality of media items. Computing a score for a media item of the plurality of media items includes determining a plurality of positive user actions associated with the media item combining a plurality of score contributions from the plurality of positive user actions to determine a value for the score and applying an exponential decay to the value for the score. The system additionally includes means for ranking the plurality of media items based on the scores means for filtering out one or more of the plurality of media items that have not been featured on any external website and means for populating a popular media item data set with highest ranked media items from a remainder of the plurality of media items.

The system may additionally include means for identifying from the plurality of positive user actions subscriber views from subscribers to a media content source of the media item and non subscriber views from non subscribers to the media content source wherein a first score contribution is applied to subscriber views and a second score contribution is applied to non subscriber views. The system may additionally include means for determining authors of the plurality of media items and means for filtering a first media item of the plurality of media items from the popular media items data set if the first media item is authored by an author of a second higher ranked media item in the popular media items data set. The system may additionally include means for determining a user engagement value for the media item based on at least one of user shares of the media item user indications of interest in the media item user comments on the media item user forwarding of the media item and playlists incorporating the media item. The system may further include means for determining a views value for the media item based on a number of user views of the media item determining a ratio between the views value and the user engagement value and filtering the media item from the popular media items data set responsive to determining that the ratio fails to satisfy a first threshold. Moreover the system may include means for boosting the score for the media item in response to determining that the ratio satisfies a second threshold.

Described herein are a system and method for ranking media items and populating a popular media items data set. Users visiting web sites of media hosting services e.g. video hosting services may desire to view most popular media items. Embodiments provide a popular media items data set that can enable such users to easily identify and view the most popular media items. In one example a media hosting service determines scores for each of the media items and then ranks the media items based on their scores. The media hosting service may compute the score for a media item by determining positive user actions associated with that media item then determining and adding up score contributions for those positive user actions. Such positive user actions may include views of a media item shares of the media item comments on the media item and so on. The media hosting service then applies an exponential decay to the score. Media items are additionally filtered out based on one or more filtering criteria.

Embodiments provide techniques for populating the popular media items data set with media items that are current and popular. The described techniques provide a diverse set of media items and ensure that extremely popular media items will stay on the popular media items data set if their popularity continues to grow while also ensuring that the popular media items data set will not remain static with just those same extremely popular media items. Experimental results have shown that adoption of the described techniques for populating the popular media items data set results in an approximately 40 increase in average view time for users exposed to media items from the popular media items data set.

Note that some implementations of the present disclosure are discussed with reference to videos and or media content sources e.g. channels that provide videos. Such videos may be digital videos and may be encoded in numerous different formats such as the Windows Media Real Media Audio Video Standard AVS Theora VP8 WebM VC 1 Quicktime MPEG 4 also known as MP4 Flash MPEG 2 DivX audio video interlace AVI or advanced video coding AVC video file formats. Though some implementations may be discussed with reference to videos and channels implementations of the present disclosure also apply to other digital media items such as images text strings audio files and so forth. Additionally implementations apply to media content sources other than channels such as social network profiles feeds accounts and so forth. Examples of audio files to which implementations of the present disclosure may apply include digital music and other audio clips such as moving picture experts group MPEG audio layer 3 MP3 files advanced audio coding AAC files waveform audio file format WAV files audio interchange file format AIFF files Apple Lossless m4A files etc. Examples of image files to which the implementations of the present disclosure may apply include joint photographic experts group JPEG files portable network graphics PNG files bitmap image BMP files graphics interchange format GIF files and so forth.

The client machines A N may be personal computers PCs laptops mobile phones tablet computers set top boxes televisions video game consoles digital assistants or any other computing devices. The client machines A N may run an operating system not shown that manages hardware and software of the client machines A N. A browser not shown may execute on some client machines e.g. on the OS of the client machines . The browser may be a web browser that can access content served by a content server by navigating to web pages of the content server e.g. using the hypertext transport protocol HTTP . The browser may issue queries and commands to the content server such as commands to access a specific video commands to share a video commands to optimize the video and so forth.

Some client machines A N include applications that are associated with a service provided by content server . Examples of client machines that may use such applications apps include mobile phones smart televisions tablet computers and so forth. The applications or apps may access content provided by content server issue commands to content server receive content from content server and so on without visiting web pages of content server .

Via an app or a browser the client machines A N may access a popular media items data set provided by content server . In one embodiment the popular media items data set is provided as a channel or other media content source that clients may subscribe to. Users may select media items from the media items data set for viewing via the app or browser. The app or browser of the client machine A N may then receive media items that are in the popular media items data set . Additionally the client machines A N may also upload media items to the content server for storage in a repository via the app or browser.

Server machine may be a rackmount server a router computer a personal computer a portable digital assistant a mobile phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a netbook a desktop computer a media center or any combination of the above. Server machine includes content server that serves media items from repository to client machines A N. Content server may be a video hosting service that offers a multitude of channels with each channel providing a collection of videos. A video channel may include videos sharing common metadata e.g. artist genre title etc. videos uploaded by the same user and or videos in a user created playlist. Each channel may be a media content source. The videos in a channel are typically uploaded or selected by a particular entity e.g. a user that curates the channel . Channels may be dedicated to particular subjects or may have particular themes. Examples of channels include comedy channels music video channels gaming channels automotive channels sports channels and so forth. Channels can also be associated with a particular entity e.g. a particular user without being dedicated to any specific topic. Users that subscribe to a channel may receive videos from that channel for viewing. Alternatively content server may host other types of media items such as images audio text strings user profiles and so forth.

Content server may include a media ranker that generates a popular media items data set. Media ranker may determine the popularity scores for media items based on user views and or user engagement with those media items. Media ranker may additionally apply an exponential decay to the scores. After scores have been decayed the scores may be ranked. Those scores having highest rankings e.g. the 10 highest ranked media items in one example may then be included in the popular media items data set. Media ranker may also filter media items from the popular media items data set based on filtering criteria. For example media items that have not been featured on an external website may be filtered from the popular media items data set . Media ranker is described in greater detail below with reference to .

In general functions described in one embodiment as being performed by the content server can also be performed on the client machines A N in other embodiments if appropriate. In addition the functionality attributed to a particular component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The content server can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or devices through appropriate application programming interfaces and thus is not limited to use in websites.

Repository is a persistent storage that is capable of storing media items such as video files text strings images audio files and so forth. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art in some implementations repository might be a network attached file server while in other implementations repository might be some other type of persistent storage such as an object oriented database a relational database and so forth that may be hosted by the server machine or one or more different machines coupled to the server machine via the network . The media items stored in the repository may include user generated content that is uploaded by client machines A N. The media items may additionally or alternatively include content provided by other entities e.g. service providers such as news organizations publishers libraries and so on . Media items may or may not be associated with particular media content sources .

Content server may receive media items from client machines also referred to herein as clients A N and or a third party server machine and store those media items in repository . Uploaded media items may be associated with particular media content sources e.g. an account or channel of an entity that uploaded the media items . In the example of videos content server may stream selected videos to clients A N or may download the videos to the clients A N. In streaming the clients A N can begin playback of the video before receiving the entire video. In contrast with downloading the video typically is not playable until a complete file is received by the client A N.

Media ranker may be coupled to a repository which may store media items access logs and or popular media item data sets . The access logs may include records of user actions e.g. positive user actions associated with media items. Alternatively different types of data may be stored in different repositories. For example access logs may be stored in a separate repository than media items .

In one embodiment the repository stores a record of all users who have registered an account with a content server. Each registered account may include a user name and e mail address associated with the account. A registered account may also include information about the user associated with the account such as their name hobbies age uploaded videos favorite videos and or playlists of videos created by the users. Such information may be used to adjust scoring of media items for those users and therefore to adjust the popular media items data set for those users.

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s actions or activities user s preferences user s age etc. or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information can be determined for the user. Thus the user may have control over how much information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

Media monitor may monitor the media items accessed by users. Media monitor may add entries to access log for each positive user action and or negative user action associated with a media item. Each entry in an access log may identify a media item being accessed a time of access a device identifier ID if available data identifying the type of interaction with the media item and so forth. Interaction types can include any user interaction such as playing saving rating sharing pausing rewinding viewing commenting and forwarding a media item. Another example of a type of interaction is subscribing to a media content source associated with the media item subsequent to viewing the media item. Another type of user action is indicating that a user likes a media item by pressing a like button. Entries may also include additional information such as an indication as to whether a user who accessed the media item is a subscriber to a media content source associated with the media item. Entries may also indicate how long a user viewed a media item.

Score calculator calculates popularity scores for media items . Such scoring may be performed based on the access logs for those media items . To compute the score for a media item score calculator may identify the positive user actions associated with a media item based on the access log for that media item. Score calculator may then determine a score contribution for each of those positive user actions. In one embodiment positive user actions are each given the same set score contribution amount causing the score to increase linearly with positive user actions. Alternatively different positive user actions may be assigned different score contributions. For example user views of videos that are longer than a first view length threshold may be assigned a first score contribution while user views of videos that are longer than a second view length threshold may be assigned a second score contribution. The view length threshold may be a percentage of a video length or other media item duration or a particular length of time e.g. 8 minutes . In one embodiment the view length threshold is whichever is shorter between a percentage of a video length and a set duration. For example a first view length threshold may be 30 of a video s duration while a second view length threshold may be 70 of the video s duration. In such an instance a user view of at least 30 of the video may be assigned a first score contribution e.g. of 1 while a user view of less than 30 may be assigned a score contribution of zero. Similarly a user view of at least 70 of the video may be assigned a second higher score contribution e.g. of 1.5 .

In another example media items may be associated with a particular media content source. Views from users who subscribe to that media content source may be assigned a first score contribution while views from users who do not subscribe to the media content source may be assigned a second higher score contribution. For example views from subscribers may be assigned a score contribution of 0.5 while views from subscribers may be assigned score contributions of 1. Additionally user shares or comments of a media item may be assigned higher score contributions than user views of the media item in some implementations.

In one implementation multipliers or weights are applied to a base score contribution value e.g. of 1 . The multipliers may be applied based for example on the above described factors. Accordingly multiple factors may increase and or decrease a score contribution for a positive user action. In one example a first user who is a subscriber to a media content source providing a video views 40 of the video. A second user who is not a subscriber to the media content source views 80 of the video. The score contribution for the first view by the subscriber may be computed by multiplying a base score contribution of 1 by 0.5 because the viewer was a subscriber and by 1 because the view was of more than 30 of the video . Thus the score contribution for the first view is 0.5. The score contribution for the second view by the non subscriber may be computed by multiplying the base score contribution of 1 by 1 because the view was from a non subscriber and by 1.5 because the view was of more than 70 of the video . Thus the score contribution for the second view is 1.5.

Score calculator may add up the score contributions for all of the positive user actions indicated in the access logs to compute a score value. If a previous score value had already been computed for the media item then the positive user actions may be those user actions that occurred after the previous score value was calculated. In such an instance the computed score value may be added to the previous score value.

Note that implementations are discussed herein with reference to computing popularity scores for media items based on positive used actions. However it should be understood that negative user actions may also be used to compute the popularity scores. Examples of negative user actions include for example negative user comments on a media item. Negative user actions may be processed in a similar manner as described below with reference to positive user actions. However negative user actions may be assigned negative score contributions rather than positive score contributions.

Score calculator may apply multipliers to popularity scores of media items based on one or more additional factors. In one embodiment score calculator determines whether a media item has been featured by an external news source. If so score calculator may boost the popularity score for that media item by applying a multiplier e.g. a weight of for example 1.25 to increase the score by 25 . Alternatively score calculator may determine whether the media item has been externally featured e.g. not just by news services and may boost the popularity score for the media item if it has been externally featured.

In one embodiment score calculator compares demographics of viewership for a media item to demographics of a broader user base. If the demographics differ by more than a threshold amount score calculator may reduce the score for that media item by applying a multiplier that is smaller than 1 e.g. 0.8 . Note that popularity scores may be computed for a general audience or for a specific audience. For example popularity scores may be computed for a particular user based on information regarding that user s demographics likes and dislikes. If a popularity score is computed for a particular user a multiplier may be applied to a media item s score based on a similarity between that user s demographics likes and dislikes and the viewership demographics likes and dislikes for that media item. Accordingly media items that appeal to a particular niche may be given a boost in popularity for members of that niche.

In one embodiment the source of positive user actions is tracked. Therefore positive user actions e.g. views that originate from a particular content server that hosts media items may be distinguished from positive user actions originating from external sources. Positive user actions originating from external sources may be weighted more heavily than positive user actions originating from the content server. For example a multiplier of 1.3 may be applied to positive user actions originating from external sources. This may help minimize an effect of media items becoming more popular simply by being included in the popular media items data set.

Score calculator may exponentially decay the popularity score value by applying an exponential decay factor. In one embodiment an exponential decay factor with a half life of one day is used. In an alternative embodiment the exponential decay factor may depend on an age of the media item. For example a first exponential decay factor e.g. a first half life of 1 day may be used if the media item has an age that is less than an age threshold. However a second exponential decay factor e.g. a second half life of 12 hours may be used if the media item has an age that is more than the age threshold. The age threshold may be 4 days 5 days or some other value. This may be considered a stepwise function for the exponential decay factor based on age. Alternatively the exponential decay factor may be a continuous or approximately continuous function of age. For example the exponential decay factor may be computed as an inverse of age so that as the age increases the exponential decay factor shortens. One possible function for the exponential decay factor is where tis the half life applied to a media item at age x x is the age of the media item tis the initial half life for the media item and y is a multiplier that controls how fast to reduce the half life with time. Modifying the exponential decay factor based on age has the effect of making it progressively more difficult for media items to remain on a popular media items data set as they age.

In addition to or instead of applying multipliers to a media item s score based on the factors described above or other factors an exponential decay factor may be adjusted based on these factors. For example the popularity of a media item may be decayed more slowly by applying a longer decay factor for users who are members of a niche associated with the media item. Additionally the media item s popularity score may be decayed more slowly if it has been featured by an external news service.

Once scores have been computed for multiple media content sources media source ranker ranks the media content sources based on their scores. Media content sources having higher scores may be more likely to be of interest to a user whereas media content sources having lower scores may be less likely to be of interest to the user. Accordingly media content sources having the highest scores may be ranked ahead of media content sources having lower scores.

Media filter may perform an analysis of media items to determine which media items satisfy one or more filtering criteria. One possible filtering criterion is an external reference criterion. External source analyzer may access one or more external services or web sites to identify those services or web sites that have featured media items. For example external source analyzer may scrape the web sites or feeds e.g. really simple syndication RSS feeds of blogs news services social networking services and so forth to identify featured media items. An externally featured media item may be a media item that has been embedded in an external web service or RSS feed or a media item that has been otherwise referenced or mentioned in an external web service or RSS feed. External source analyzer may update the access logs of those media items that are externally featured by adding an externally featured tag to the access logs . In one embodiment external source analyzer additionally notes in the access logs whether a media item has been externally featured by a news service. Media filter may determine whether to filter media items based on whether they have been externally featured using an external reference criterion.

Other filtering criteria may also be used to filter out media items from a popular media items data set. For example another possible criterion is a general audience suitability criterion that filters out media items if they are unsuitable for a general audience e.g. if they are violent racy and so forth . Another possible criterion is a views to engagement ratio criterion that filters out media items if they have not received an adequate amount of user engagement as set according to a number of recorded views. Another possible criterion is an author criterion that filters out media items based on an author. Examples of filtering criteria are discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

Once media items have been scored and filtered data set generator may rank the media items based on their scores. Media items having the highest scores may be ranked ahead of media items having lower scores. Data set generator may then generate a popular media items data set and or update an existing media items data set with the most popular media items e.g. those having the highest ranks . This popular media items data set may then be presented to users.

User interface may provide the popular media items data set for recommendation and display to users. The user may also be provided with an option to view additional media items with lower rankings e.g. by pressing a show more button . The user may select an identified media for viewing e.g. for playback .

In some implementations the popular media items data set is created for a particular region e.g. a particular country from media items uploaded from that particular region. In such an instance the popularity for the media items may be computed from positive user actions by users located in that region. In other implementations a global popular media items data set is created from media items uploaded from multiple regions e.g. multiple countries and popularity scores are computed based on user actions from users in the multiple regions. Additionally a global popularity score and one or more local popularity scores may be computed for media items. The global and local popularity scores for a media item may be combined for an aggregate popularity score. In such an aggregate the local popularity score associated with a particular region may be weighted more heavily than the global popularity score and or the local popularity scores for other regions. A popular media items data set for a particular region may be based on the aggregate popularity score.

Category specific popular media items data sets may be generated in addition to a general popular media items data set. For example different popular media items data sets may be created for the categories of sports news gaming comedy and so forth. Media items may be designated for a particular category based on a media content source and or an uploader. Alternatively or additionally the category may be computed by a content server.

For simplicity of explanation the methods are depicted and described as a series of acts. However acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders and or concurrently and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In addition those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or events. Additionally it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computing devices. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or storage media.

At block processing logic determines whether there are any additional media items that have not had their popularity scores computed. If any such media items are identified the method returns to block and a next media item is scored. Note that many media items may be scored in parallel.

At block processing logic ranks the media items based on their scores. At block processing logic filters out media items satisfying one or more filtering criteria. The filtering may be performed in accordance with filtering method described below with reference to in one implementation. At block processing logic populates a popular media items data set with highest ranked media items. The popular media items data set may then be provided to client devices for presentation to users.

At block processing logic determines a contribution to a popularity score for the media item based on the positive user action. For example processing logic may use one or more weighting rules to determine how much of a score contribution should be applied for a positive user action. The contribution may be based on the type of positive user action. Other variables may also affect the level of contribution for a positive user action. One implementation for determining a score contribution for a positive user action is set forth below with reference to .

At block processing logic determines whether there are any additional positive user actions for which a score contribution has not been determined. If any such positive user actions are identified the method returns to block . Note that score contributions for multiple positive user actions may be determined in parallel.

At block processing logic calculates a sum of the determined score contributions. At block processing logic adds the calculated sum to a previous value of the media item s popularity score to determine a new value of the popularity score.

The value of the popularity score may be boosted or decreased based on one or more additional factors. Some of those factors are discussed with reference to blocks . However other factors may also be used to increase or decrease a popularity score for a media item. Moreover those factors set forth may not be applied in some implementations.

At block processing logic computes a user engagement value and a views value for the media item. The user engagement value may be computed based on a number of different types of user activities all of which may reflect a level of user engagement with the media item. Such user activities may include user comments on the media item user shares of the media item user posts of the media item to external web sites user references to the media item in external services such as social media services user likes of the media item and so on. The user views value may be computed from the number of user views that the media item has received and or based on the length of the user views.

At block processing logic determines a ratio between the user engagement value and the user views value. If there is a higher than average level of user engagement for a media item having a particular number of views then this may indicate that the media item is popular. Accordingly it may be useful to inflate the popularity score for that media item. At block processing logic determines whether the ratio between the user engagement value and the views value satisfies a threshold. If the ratio satisfies the threshold the method proceeds to block . Otherwise the method proceeds to block .

At block the new value of the score is boosted. The amount that the score is boosted may depend at least partially on the ratio. For example an average ratio between user engagement and user views may be 100 user views for every user activity representative of user engagement e.g. 100 1 . If a media item has a ratio of 2 user views for every user activity representative of user engagement then the popularity score may be increased by a first multiplier e.g. multiplied by 1.2 in one example . If the media item has a ratio of 5 user views for every user activity representative of user engagement then the popularity score may be increased by a second multiplier e.g. multiplied by 1.4 in one example .

Some media items may appeal to a specific cross section of a media hosting service s user base but may not appeal to other users. For example a video or screen shot showing a scene from a computer game may be very popular among some viewers but may not appeal to others. At block processing logic determines viewer demographics for the media item. Viewers may have user accounts that include demographic information such as age gender hobbies and so forth. Statistics on viewer demographics may be computed using such information. At block processing logic compares the statistics on the viewer demographics for the media item to viewer demographics of a broader user base. For example the viewer demographics for the media item may be compared to user demographics for all users of a media hosting service or to demographics of a general population of a region such as a nation. If processing logic determines that the viewer demographics differ from the user demographics by more than a threshold amount the method continues to block and processing logic decreases the new value of the score for the media item. For example processing logic may apply a multiplier such as 0.8 to the popularity score for the media item. Otherwise the method proceeds to block .

At block processing logic applies an exponential decay to the new value of the popularity score. The exponential decay may have a specified half life which may be 12 hours 1 day 2 days or some other value. Alternatively the exponential decay may have a computed half life that is a function of an age of the media item. The method then ends.

At block processing logic determines whether the view was performed by a subscriber or a non subscriber to a media content source of the media item. Views from subscribers may be assigned lower score contributions than views from non subscribers. At block processing logic determines a length of the view. Longer views may indicate a greater level of interest in the media item. For example a first user who views a video through 60 of the video is probably more interested in the video than a second user who views the video for 30 of the video. Accordingly a higher score contribution may be assigned to a long view of the media item than to a short view of the media item.

At block processing logic determines a contribution of the positive user action to the popularity score for the media item. The contribution may be based on the type of positive user action the length of a view and or whether the positive user action was from a subscriber or a non subscriber to a media content source that provided the media item. The method then ends.

At block processing logic determines whether the media item is appropriate for a general audience. For example processing logic may compute a raciness value for a media item based on vulgarity and or sexual content. Processing logic may also determine a violence value for the media item. If the raciness value exceeds a raciness threshold or the violence value exceeds a violence threshold then the media item may be identified as inappropriate for a general audience e.g. inappropriate for children . At block if the media item is identified as inappropriate for a general audience then method proceeds to block and the media item is filtered. Otherwise the method continues to block .

At block processing logic identifies an author e.g. a media content source of the media item. Processing logic then determines whether the author of the media item is also the author of any other media items that have higher popularity scores e.g. higher ranked media items . If the media item has an author of a higher ranked media item the method proceeds to block and the media item is filtered. Otherwise the method continues to block .

At block processing logic determines whether the media item has been featured on any external service or website. This may be determined by performing scraping of feeds such as RSS feeds and or by performing page scraping of external websites affiliated with blogs news services social media services and so forth. If the media item has not been featured on any external website or has not been featured by any external service the method proceeds to block and the media item is filtered. If the media item has been externally featured the method continues to block and processing logic determines not to filter the media item.

The example computing device includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processors such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or a processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. The processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processing device is configured to execute instructions for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computing device may further include a network interface device . The computing device also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a computer readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting computer readable media.

In one implementation the instructions include instructions for a media ranker which may correspond to media ranker of and or a software library containing methods that call a media ranker. While the computer readable medium is shown in an exemplary implementation to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The terms computer readable medium and computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

In the foregoing description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as analyzing ranking determining enabling identifying calculating or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other implementations will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

