---

title: Apparatus and method for secure authentication of a communication device
abstract: A system that incorporates the subject disclosure may perform, for example, receiving a baseline credential and an external credential, mapping the external credential to the baseline credential in a secure element memory, receiving a request for an authentication from a secure device processor of the communication device where the request for the authentication includes a user credential inputted into the communication device, comparing the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication, and providing the authentication and the external credential to the secure device processor without providing the baseline credential to enable the secure device processor to provide the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208300&OS=09208300&RS=09208300
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 09208300
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131023
---
The subject disclosure relates to an apparatus and method for secure authentication of a communication device.

Electronic devices are being utilized with more frequency to conduct various types of transactions and exchanges of information. The use of external devices such as web servers often requires identifying that a user requesting a service is authorized to utilize the service. Allowing an unauthorized user to utilize services can be costly in terms of resources consumed confidential information being exposed and so forth.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments in which a user may be authenticated through a communication device e.g. a smartphone a tablet and so forth by using a secure element e.g. which may exist within or be a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC and a secure device processer SDP as an authentication platform. The credentials used to authenticate the user can be digital e.g. binary representations of items that can be used to verify a user s identity including passwords pin numbers digital signatures or biometric data e.g. fingerprint voiceprint or faceprint . The UICC can be a highly secure computing platform for storing secrets such as encryption keys and authentication credentials and can host and execute applets. The SDP can be a processor that is logically and or physically separate from the device processor and can offer more security than the device processor but not as much security as the UICC. Examples of an SDP include a Trusted Execution Environment TEE and an embedded Secure Element eSE . In one or more embodiments together the UICC and SDP can provide a secure means of authenticating a user.

The secure element can contain an authentication management function which stores encrypted authentication credentials. In one embodiment two types of credentials can be stored by the secure element baseline credentials used to authenticate the user to the secure element and external credentials for external entities such as web based email servers. In one or more embodiments when prompted by an authentication processor function the authentication management function can compare the stored authentication credentials e.g. the baseline credentials with those provided by the user to verify the identity of the user. In one or more embodiments external credentials for external entities may be provided by the authentication management function if any are mapped to the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments the external credential can be the execution of an operation such as a cryptographic operation e.g. a digital signature a signed secret response to a challenge and so forth . In some embodiments the external credential can be used as a challenge response from the external entity device. In other embodiments the external credential can be a combination of data such as a user ID and password.

In one or more embodiments the SDP can contain the authentication processor function which performs one or more of the following tasks processing requests for authentication from applications in the device e.g. a web browser NFC applet and so forth or external entities e.g. application servers NFC readers and so forth prompting the user to provide authentication credentials processing authentication credentials for transmission to the authentication management function. In one or more embodiments applications which interact with the authentication processor function are registered and associated with it.

One or more of the embodiments can use both the UICC and SDP together to provide a secure platform for user authentication. One or more of the embodiments can use the SDP to process user generated authentication information such as biometric data for transmission to the UICC. One or more of the embodiments can use the UICC to store user baseline credentials and use them to verify the user s identity. One or more of the embodiments can use the UICC to store credentials for external entities such as web based email servers and map them to baseline credentials. One or more of the embodiments can use secure remote management of the UICC and SDP. One or more of the embodiments can use an authentication management function that may be located in the UICC. One or more of the embodiments can use an authentication processor function which is located in an SDP. One or more of the embodiments can use a remote management system which remotely manages the authentication management function and authentication processor function.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a communication device having a secure element with a secure element memory including first executable instructions. The secure element responsive to executing the first executable instructions can perform first operations including receiving a baseline credential and an external credential storing the baseline credential and the external credential in the secure element memory and mapping the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. The communication device can also have a secure device processor having a secure device processor memory with second executable instructions. The secure device processor can be separate from the secure element and in communication with the secure element. The secure device processor responsive to executing the second executable instructions can perform second operations including receiving an application registration request where the receiving of the external credential by the secure element is responsive to the application registration request receiving user input including a user credential providing a request for an authentication to the secure element where the request for the authentication includes the user credential and enables the secure element to compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication receiving the authentication and the external credential from the secure element without receiving the baseline credential and providing the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure is a method including receiving by a secure element of a communication device a baseline credential and an external credential storing the baseline credential and the external credential in a secure element memory of the secure element and receiving by a secure device processor of the communication device an application registration request wherein the secure device processor is separate from the secure element and in communication with the secure element. The method can include receiving by the secure device processor user input including a user credential. The method can include providing a request for an authentication from the secure device processor to the secure element where the request for the authentication includes the user credential and enables the secure element to compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication. The method can include receiving by the secure device processor the authentication and the external credential from the secure element without receiving the baseline credential. The method can include providing by the secure device processor the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure is a computer readable storage device including instructions which responsive to being executed by a secure element of a communication device cause the secure element to perform operations that include receiving a baseline credential and an external credential. The secure element can store the baseline credential and the external credential in a secure element memory of the secure element and can map the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. The secure element can receive a request for an authentication from a secure device processor of the communication device where the secure device processor is separate from the secure element and in communication with the secure element and where the request for the authentication includes a user credential inputted into the communication device. The secure element can compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication. The secure element can provide the authentication and the external credential to the secure device processor without providing the baseline credential to enable the secure device processor to provide the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure depicts a system that includes a communication device connected to or otherwise in communication with a network and provided with a secure services platform enabling authentication of other communication devices and encrypted communication with those devices. Device can be loaded with authentication applications to the secure element and to the secure device processor respectively and can be personalized with baseline credentials. Applications can be registered and associated with the device to enable the secure authentication by the device . The secure authentication by the device can entail authenticating the user to the UICC and authenticating the user to an external entity.

It will be appreciated that the communication device may be any device including a user device which has a secure element and a secure device processor. The term user in this example refers to a human user of the communication device. However in other embodiments the user can be a machine that exchanges data with the communication device after being authenticated to the communication device. Communication device can include a device processor a SDP and a secure element . In this embodiment secure element can be a UICC. The UICC can be a secure computing platform and can offer a high level of security for storing encryption keys authentication credentials and the like. The UICC may be removable from the device. In other embodiments the UICC may be embedded in the device and not removable. In other embodiments the secure element can be placed on a memory card or an embedded chip. The SDP can be logically and or physically separate from the device processor and can be connected to both the device processor and the UICC . In this embodiment the SDP can offer a higher level of security than the device processor and can store and execute secure applications. The SDP can for example run applications in a trusted execution environment. The secure element and SDP together can form a secure services platform resident on the device . In this embodiment secure element SDP and device processor can each have a security level associated therewith and the security level associated with the SDP can be intermediate between that of the secure element and that of the device processor . The SDP and secure element can use mutual authentication as described in more detail below.

The secure element and SDP can communicate with a remote management function server located remotely from device . The remote management server can be a platform for provisioning and or managing applications in the secure element and SDP . The remote management server can also manage data such as keys credentials and so forth that are used by the applications. Examples of remote management servers are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 679 479 filed on Nov. 16 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 680 680 filed on Nov. 19 2012 the disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

In this embodiment user device can be a wireless communication device connected to a cellular network . Network can also be other types of networks operating according to various communication protocols such as a WiFi network. In other embodiments device can be connected to other devices via a wired connection through a computer. In still other embodiments user devices can communicate with each other using Bluetooth infrared communications IRDa and or near field communications NFC . A communication session between user devices wherein information is transferred between the users can be effected by a wide variety of arrangements. A secure application server SAS can be used in some embodiments to establish a secure communication session between devices. However a secure application server may not be used in embodiments where the communication session is established in a peer to peer manner such as in Bluetooth IRDa or NFC.

System enables components of the secure services platform e.g. the secure element to perform operations including receiving a baseline credential and an external credential storing the baseline credential and the external credential in the secure element memory and mapping the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. System enables components of the secure services platform e.g. a SDP to perform operations including receiving an application registration request where the receiving of the external credential by the secure element is responsive to the application registration request receive user input including a user credential provide a request for an authentication to the secure element wherein the request for the authentication includes the user credential and enables the secure element to compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication receive the authentication and the external credential from the secure element without receiving the baseline credential and provide the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device . The external entity device can be various types of devices such as a third party web server a network element operating an application function and so forth. In one or more embodiments the application registration request can be received from various sources such as remotely from the external entity device or some other remote device. In other embodiments the application registration request can be received locally such as based on user input from an application being executed by the device processor or from an application being executed by another processor e.g. the SDP of the communication device.

In one or more embodiments system enables the secure element to include a universal integrated circuit card where the receiving of the baseline credential is from a remote management server that is remote from the communication device and the external entity device and where the secure element and the SDP are mutually authenticated with the remote management server using a remote management keyset. In one or more embodiments the communication device can include a device processor that is separate from the SDP and in communication with the secure device processor where the device processor facilitates wireless communications between the communication device and the remote management server where the receiving of the application registration request is from an application being executed by the device processor and where the receiving of the user input is in response to a prompt that is presented by the communication device responsive to the application being executed by the device processor. In one or more embodiments the user credential can be inputted at a device other than communication device . For example if User B s credentials are stored in device A and if device A is to be used to authenticate user B the SDP of device B could send the credential s inputted by user B to the SDP of device A. This channel could be encrypted. The encryption may not be based on User B credentials since user B has not been authenticated. In one embodiment continuing with this example a remote management server can be utilized for this authentication. In other embodiments the communication exchange can be peer to peer between the SDPs of the respective devices so that the remote management server is not utilized. For instance in an example of authentication between end user devices an SDP SDP keyset can be utilized which is similar to the bearer path authentication keyset described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 023 932 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In one embodiment the SDP SDP keyset can be loaded to both SDPs of the respective end user devices by the remote management server prior to use. For example this can occur when the applications are initially loaded. In addition to utilizing a bearer path authentication keyset e.g. the SDP SDP key set to authenticate the two devices the encryption between the two devices can be done using a bearer path encryption keyset as described in 50 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 023 932 or a similar mechanism. In one embodiment the UICC can store credentials provided by other users for a peer to peer service in which two or more users with their respective devices use the credentials stored in the other user s device for mutual authentication. In one or more embodiments the communication device can include a user interface where the receiving of the baseline credential includes receiving by the SDP biometric input captured at the user interface converting by the secure device processor the biometric input into a binary biometric credential providing the binary biometric credential from the secure device processor to the secure element and encrypting by the secure element the binary biometric credential to generate the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments the baseline credential can include a password a pin number a digital signature or combinations thereof. In one or more embodiments the baseline credential can include a finger print a voice print a face print or combinations thereof. In one or more embodiments the external credential can include a server login. In one or more embodiments the receiving of the application registration request can be from the external entity device and the receiving of the user input can be in response to a prompt that is presented by the communication device responsive to the application registration request. In one or more embodiments the communication device can include a user interface where the receiving of the baseline credential includes receiving by the SDP user data inputted at the user interface converting by the secure device processor the user data into a binary credential providing the binary credential from the secure device processor to the secure element and encrypting by the secure element the binary credential to generate the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments the communication device can include a device processor that is separate from the SDP and in communication with the secure device processor where the device processor facilitates wireless communications between the communication device and a remote management server where the device processor enables voice video and or data communication services to be provided by the communication device where first executable instructions for the first operations are received by the secure element from the remote management server and where second executable instructions for the second operations are received by the secure device processor from the remote management server. In one or more embodiments a user can have any number of credentials. In other embodiments multiple users of a single device can have their baseline credentials stored in the secure element . Device enables the creation storage and or management of one or more credentials for each of a plurality of users.

The remote management server can perform a remote provisioning and management function to load applications content and or other information such as credentials e.g. baseline credentials and external credentials into the secure element e.g. UICC and SDP . In this embodiment the remote management server can provision the authentication management function and real time encryption key generator on the UICC and can provision the real time encryption engine on the SDP . This can be done securely by the use of one or more remote management keysets. In one embodiment before the secure services platform can be used for communication the SDP can be authenticated by the UICC . In one embodiment this can be done using a UICC SDP keyset. The UICC SDP keyset may be provisioned remotely by the remote management server or locally by an authorized user. In this embodiment after the UICC and SDP are mutually authenticated using the UICC SDP keyset they can communicate via a signaling path within the secure services platform . The UICC SDP keyset may be used for secure communication during initial loading and provisioning. However the keys being utilized may be different. In one embodiment the path between the UICC and the SDP can go through the device processor rather than directly between the UICC and the SDP.

In this embodiment of the secure services platform enables secure authentication of a user based on a baseline credential that is received either from a remote management server or is generated by the secure element based on data received from the SDP . For instance the secure element can receive a baseline credential e.g. a password pin number digital signature and so forth and can store the secure element without sharing the baseline credential with components outside of the secure element e.g. the SDP or the device processor . As another example the SDP can obtain data e.g. user input of a finger print voice print face print or other user authentication information . The SDP can translate the received user input into a binary credential which is then provided to the secure element . The secure element can then further transform the binary credential such as based on encryption to generate the baseline credential. Once generated the baseline credential can remain stored in the secure element without being provided to the SDP .

In one or more embodiments the secure element can exclusively verify authentication based on the baseline credential and received user input compared thereto. In one or more embodiments external credentials that are mapped to the baseline credential can be provided to the SDP which then provides the external credential to an external device such as providing a log in identification to a web server during a log in procedure.

Referring to a system is depicted which illustrates providing user authentication at an end user device utilizing a secure element and a SDP. System can include a platform e.g. operated on the remote management server to remotely provision and manage the applications on the UE. The remote management server can create and load the necessary applications into both the UICC and SDP as well as provisioning credentials e.g. baseline and external credentials . In one or more embodiments this can be done securely by the use of one or more remote management keysets. These keysets can be used to mutually authenticate the UICC and SDP with the remote management server and to enable encryption between them.

In one or more embodiments the SDP can be authenticated by the UICC using a UICC SDP Keyset. This can occur once the applications have been loaded by the remote management server. In one or more embodiments the user s baseline credentials can be loaded and stored in the authentication management function which can also include encrypting the baseline credentials. These baseline credentials can be loaded by the remote management server or they can be created through the use of the authentication processor function. In one or more embodiments applications register with the authentication processor function in order to enable the user authentication process. In one or more embodiments the baseline credentials can include one or more of pin codes passwords and biometric data such as finger prints voice prints or face prints. In one or more embodiments the external credentials being stored for use by external entities e.g. a web based email server can include login in information and so forth and can be mapped to the baseline credentials.

In one or more embodiments the secure element can compare the baseline credential with credentials supplied by the user during the lifecycle of the service. In one or more embodiments baseline credentials do not leave the secure element while external credentials can be provided from the secure element to an external entity after authentication with the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments baseline credentials may be loaded into the secure element from the network using a high security process based on GlobalPlatform or loaded directly by the user via a user interface e.g. keyboard audio recording component image capture components and so forth . In one or more embodiments user credentials e.g. corresponding or otherwise associated with the baseline credentials provided by the user are processed by the SDP in the device for transmission to the secure element. In one or more embodiments applications that use secure element based authentication register and associate with the SDP before the secure authentication process described herein may be utilized for the applications.

Referring to system is depicted which illustrates loading or otherwise provisioning the end user device with the applications that are utilized by the secure services platform for performing the secure user authentication process. If the applications have not been loaded at the time of manufacture then at la upon receiving a request for the service the remote management server can download the authentication management function to the secure element and the authentication processor function to the SDP. In one embodiment remote management keysets can be used to securely transmit information from the remote management server to the end user device. This process can involve mutual authentication and encryption. At the secure element and the SDP mutually authenticate with each other once the two are provisioned using the UICC SDP Keyset.

In one or more embodiments there are two ways that the user baseline credentials can be loaded into the authentication management function through the remote management server or through the authentication processor function. Referring to system is depicted which illustrates one of the ways of loading the baseline credentials. At if the remote management server is in possession of the user s baseline credentials it may download them to the authentication management function using the remote management keyset.

Referring system is depicted which illustrates another way of loading or otherwise providing the baseline credentials to the secure element. At the authentication processor function can prompt the user to provide the user baseline credentials. In one embodiment the user can choose the type of credential to be stored e.g. password pin biometric data and so forth . At the authentication processor function can convert the credential supplied by the user into binary form and transmit it to the authentication management function. In one embodiment this step can require authentication between the authentication management function and the authentication processor function. At the authentication management function can encrypt the credential and store it as the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments additional authentication between the secure element and the SDP can be imposed to enable the generation of the baseline credential from the data provided by the SDP.

Referring to system is depicted which illustrates enabling the registration of application so that the applications can utilize the secure user authentication process described herein. For example applications can be required to register and associate with the authentication processor function in order to use it. At this can be done explicitly by the user or at implicitly by the application or the authentication processor function. At once registered credentials for external entities e.g. login for a web based email server can provided to the authentication management function processed and stored in the authentication management function. The application management function can contain a mapping between the baseline credentials and the external credentials for external entities. These external credentials may be provided explicitly by the user or implicitly by an application. In one or more embodiments additional authentication between the secure element and the SDP can be imposed to enable the process.

Referring to system is depicted which illustrates the user authentication process. At either or both of an application within the device or an external entity device requests the authentication processor function to authenticate the user. At the authentication processor function can select the type of credential to be supplied and can request the user to supply it such as via a prompt displayed or otherwise rendered at the end user device. At once the user has provided the requested authentication credential the authentication processor function can convert it to binary form for transmission to the application management function. At the authentication processor function can transmit the credential to the authentication management function for verification. If credentials for an external entity are required the authentication processor function can request them from the authentication management function. At the authentication management function can compare the credential that was just provided by the user in step to the baseline credential stored within it. At the authentication management function can respond to the request from the authentication processor function indicating whether or not the supplied credential matches the baseline credential. The authentication processor function can provide the credential for an external entity if it was requested to do so and if the user is verified. At the authentication processor function can notify the application whether or not the user is authenticated. This notification can be passed on to an external entity device. External entity credentials can be passed on to the external entity device if provided by the authentication processor function. In one or more embodiments additional authentication between the secure element and the SDP can be imposed to enable the process.

At an application registration request can be received. The request can be received by SDP . At a user credential can be received. In one or more embodiments the user credential can be received by the SDP as user input in response to a prompt displayed or otherwise rendered at the communication device . For instance the device processor can present a prompt requesting a user credential such as in response to a request from an application being executed at the communication device and or in response to a request from an external entity device e.g. a web server . In this example the device processor can provide the SDP with the received user credential.

At a request for an authentication can be generated such as being provided from the SDP to the secure element . The request for the authentication can include the user credential and can enable or otherwise request that the secure element compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication. At the verified authentication can be received by the SDP without receiving the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments any external credential that has been mapped to the baseline credential can also be provided by the secure element to the SDP . At the external credential can be provided such as by the SDP to an external entity device e.g. a web server during a log in procedure that is remote from the communication device . In one or more embodiments the SDP may notify the external entity device and or the application e.g. being executed by the device processor or other component that the user has been authenticated without providing an external credential.

In one or more embodiments the secure element can map the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. In one or more embodiments the receiving of the external credential by the secure element can be responsive to the application registration request. In one or more embodiments the device can provide voice video and or data communication services utilizing the device processor that is separate from the secure device processor and in communication with the SDP where the device processor facilitates wireless communications between the communication device and a remote management server and where the baseline credential is received from the remote management server. In one or more embodiments wherein the receiving of the baseline credential can include receiving by the SDP biometric input captured at a user interface of the communication device converting by the secure device processor the biometric input into a binary biometric credential providing the binary biometric credential from the secure device processor to the secure element and encrypting by the secure element the binary biometric credential to generate the baseline credential. In one or more embodiments the baseline credential can include one or more of a password a pin number or digital signature. In one or more embodiments the baseline credential can include one or more of a finger print a voice print or a face print. In one or more embodiments the receiving of the application registration request can be from the external entity device where the receiving of the user input is in response to a prompt that is presented by the communication device responsive to the application registration request.

SDP together to provide a secure platform for user authentication utilizing the SDP to process user generated authentication information such as biometric data for transmission to the UICC utilizing the UICC to store user baseline credentials and use them to verify the user s identity utilizing the UICC to store credentials for external entities such as web based email servers and map them to baseline credentials and or secure remote management of the UICC and SDP.

The IPTV media system can include a super head end office SHO with at least one super headend office server SHS which receives media content from satellite and or terrestrial communication systems. In the present context media content can represent for example audio content moving image content such as 2D or 3D videos video games virtual reality content still image content and combinations thereof. The SHS server can forward packets associated with the media content to one or more video head end servers VHS via a network of video head end offices VHO according to a multicast communication protocol.

The VHS can distribute multimedia broadcast content via an access network to commercial and or residential buildings housing a gateway such as a residential or commercial gateway . The access network can represent a group of digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs located in a central office or a service area interface that provide broadband services over fiber optical links or copper twisted pairs to buildings . The gateway can use communication technology to distribute broadcast signals to media processors such as Set Top Boxes STBs which in turn present broadcast channels to media devices such as computers or television sets managed in some instances by a media controller such as an infrared or RF remote controller .

The gateway the media processors and media devices can utilize tethered communication technologies such as coaxial powerline or phone line wiring or can operate over a wireless access protocol such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee or other present or next generation local or personal area wireless network technologies. By way of these interfaces unicast communications can also be invoked between the media processors and subsystems of the IPTV media system for services such as video on demand VoD browsing an electronic programming guide EPG or other infrastructure services.

A satellite broadcast television system can be used in the media system of . The satellite broadcast television system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment signals transmitted by a satellite that include media content can be received by a satellite dish receiver coupled to the building . Modulated signals received by the satellite dish receiver can be transferred to the media processors for demodulating decoding encoding and or distributing broadcast channels to the media devices . The media processors can be equipped with a broadband port to an Internet Service Provider ISP network to enable interactive services such as VoD and EPG as described above.

In yet another embodiment an analog or digital cable broadcast distribution system such as cable TV system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system and or the satellite TV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment the cable TV system can also provide Internet telephony and interactive media services.

The subject disclosure can apply to other present or next generation over the air and or landline media content services system.

Some of the network elements of the IPTV media system can be coupled to one or more computing devices a portion of which can operate as a web server for providing web portal services over the ISP network to wireline media devices or wireless communication devices .

Communication system can also provide for computing devices to function as a remote management server herein referred to as server . The server can use computing and communication technology to perform function which can include among other things remotely managing the authentication management function and the authentication processor function providing baseline credentials to the secure element engaging in a mutual authentication with the secure element and the SDP utilizing remote keysets.

Functions can include functions being performed at the secure element including receiving a baseline credential and an external credential storing the baseline credential and the external credential in the secure element memory and mapping the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. Functions can also include functions being performed at the secure device processor such as receiving an application registration request where the receiving of the external credential by the secure element is responsive to the application registration request receiving user input including a user credential providing a request for an authentication to the secure element where the request for the authentication includes the user credential and enables the secure element to compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication receiving the authentication and the external credential from the secure element without receiving the baseline credential and providing the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device.

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to media devices over landline technologies such as those described above. Additionally media services can be offered to media devices by way of a wireless access base station operating according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile or GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications or UMTS World interoperability for Microwave or WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR Long Term Evolution or LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless access network technologies can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

In one or more embodiments the secure element of device can perform operations including receiving a baseline credential and an external credential storing the baseline credential and the external credential in a secure element memory of the secure element and mapping the external credential to the baseline credential in the secure element memory. The secure element can receive a request for an authentication from a secure device processor of the communication device where the secure device processor is separate from the secure element and in communication with the secure element and where the request for the authentication includes a user credential inputted into the communication device. The secure element can compare the user credential with the baseline credential to verify the authentication and can provide the authentication and the external credential to the secure device processor without providing the baseline credential to enable the secure device processor to provide the external credential to an external entity device that is remote from the communication device.

In one or more embodiments the receiving of the baseline credential by the device can include receiving a binary biometric credential from the secure device processor where the binary biometric credential is generated by the secure device processor by converting biometric input captured at a user interface of the communication device into the binary biometric credential and encrypting the binary biometric credential to generate the baseline credential.

In one or more embodiments the baseline credential can be received by the secure element from a remote management server that is in wireless communication with the communication device via a device processor of the communication device that is separate from the secure device processor and in communication with the secure device processor where keysets are utilized for mutual authentication of the secure element and the secure device processor with the remote management server and wherein the device processor enables voice communication services at the communication device.

To enable these features communication device can comprise a wireline and or wireless transceiver herein transceiver a user interface UI a power supply a location receiver a motion sensor an orientation sensor and a controller for managing operations thereof. The transceiver can support short range or long range wireless access technologies such as Bluetooth ZigBee WiFi DECT or cellular communication technologies just to mention a few. Cellular technologies can include for example CDMA X UMTS HSDPA GSM GPRS TDMA EDGE EV DO WiMAX SDR LTE NFC as well as other next generation wireless communication technologies as they arise. The transceiver can also be adapted to support circuit switched wireline access technologies such as PSTN packet switched wireline access technologies such as TCP IP VoIP etc. and combinations thereof.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The display can use touch screen technology to also serve as a user interface for detecting user input. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements or other functions of the user interface. The display can be an integral part of the housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device communicatively coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a cable or a wireless interface.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard in proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and or charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively or in combination the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or other suitable tethering technologies.

The location receiver can utilize location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites which can be used for facilitating location services such as navigation. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect motion of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device north south west and east as well as combined orientations in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access points by sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF measurements. The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies for executing computer instructions controlling and processing data supplied by the aforementioned components of the communication device .

Other components not shown in can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. For instance the communication device can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the communication device . In yet another embodiment the communication device can also include a factory default setting button positioned for example below a small hole in a housing assembly of the communication device to force the communication device to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button. The communication device can also include a slot for adding or removing an identity module such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card which in some embodiments can be the secure element or UICC. SIM cards can be used for identifying subscriber services executing programs storing subscriber data and so forth.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less of the circuit components shown in . These variant embodiments can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of the media processor the media devices or the portable communication devices of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other devices that can operate in communication system of such as a gaming console and a media player.

The communication device shown in or portions thereof can serve as a representation of one or more of the devices of and including end user devices customer premises equipment remote management servers and or external entity devices. In one or more embodiments the external entity device can be operated by or affiliated with a third party entity that is different from and or independent of the service provider operating the remote management server. In addition the controller can perform the functions or .

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example generating the baseline credential by the secure element from binary data e.g. converted user input provided by the SDP can include adding additional information to the binary data to generate an adjusted binary data and then encrypting by the secure element the adjusted binary data. The additional information can be in various forms such as information received from the remote management server that is associated with the user s identity.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display. The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices that can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable gate array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. including but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure. The term non transitory as in a non transitory computer readable storage includes without limitation memories drives devices and anything tangible but not a signal per se.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP NFC represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee NFC and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The exemplary embodiments can include combinations of features and or steps from multiple embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure. Additionally features such as components or steps that are positively recited in one or more of the exemplary embodiments can also be expressly excluded from the exemplary embodiments.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

