---

title: Headrest-mounted entertainment systems
abstract: In certain embodiments, a mobile entertainment system includes a screen assembly with a display and a signal generating device. A housing pivotally coupled to the screen assembly can have a lower portion, an upper portion, and a housing cavity sized and shaped to receive the screen assembly. The upper portion can receive at least a portion of the signal generating device. At least a portion of the screen assembly can rotate through an opening in the lower portion. A shell can receive the housing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09004588&OS=09004588&RS=09004588
owner: Johnson Safety, Inc
number: 09004588
owner_city: San Bernardino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130501
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57. This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 830 223 filed Jul. 2 2010 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEMS which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 103 638 filed Apr. 15 2008 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEMS now U.S. Pat. No. 7 762 627 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 475 735 filed Jun. 26 2006 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 7 591 508 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 732 788 filed Nov. 2 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 740 540 filed Nov. 29 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 811 879 filed Jun. 7 2006 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 103 638 also claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 912 156 filed Apr. 16 2007 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEMS. The entire contents of the above identified applications are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this specification.

U.S. application Ser. No. 12 830 223 filed Jul. 2 2010 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 103 618 filed Apr. 15 2008 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEMS now U.S. Pat. No. 7 758 117 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 475 735 filed Jun. 26 2006 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 7 591 508 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 732 788 filed Nov. 2 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 740 540 filed Nov. 29 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 811 879 filed Jun. 7 2006 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 103 618 also claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 912 157 filed Apr. 16 2007 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEMS. The entire contents of each of the above identified applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

This application relates to entertainment systems that can be mounted in a vehicle such as an automobile and more particularly relates to headrest mounted entertainment systems for vehicles.

Video display units have been used in vehicles such as for example airplanes and cars to provide passengers with diversion and entertainment on journeys of diverse durations. However known units and various components thereof have various limitations and disadvantages.

In certain embodiments a mobile entertainment system comprises a housing configured to be coupled with a mounting plate of a headrest. The housing can define a first hinge portion. In some embodiments the system further comprises a screen assembly. The screen assembly can define a second hinge portion that cooperates with the first hinge portion to pivotally couple the screen assembly with the housing such that the screen assembly can rotate relative to the housing. In some embodiments the system further comprises a retaining harness fixedly attached to the mounting plate of the headrest at a first end and fixedly attached to the screen assembly at a second end. The retaining harness can be configured to limit rotation of the screen assembly relative to the housing. Optionally in some embodiments the system comprises a headrest configured to be installed in a vehicle. The headrest can comprise the mounting plate.

In certain embodiments a mobile entertainment system comprises a housing coupled with a mounting plate of a headrest. The housing can define a first hinge portion. In some embodiments the system further includes a screen assembly comprising a metallic frame. In various embodiments a surface area of the frame is relatively large as compared with that of the other components of the screen assembly. For example in some embodiments the screen assembly includes a media reader and the frame covers a substantial portion of the media reader. In various embodiments an external or outer surface area of the frame is no less than about or the size of an outer surface area of the media reader. In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a viewing screen. In various embodiments a maximum cross sectional area of the frame is no less than about 0.25 0.33 0.50 0.66 0.75 1.25 or 1.33 times the size of a viewable surface area of the viewing screen.

In some embodiments the screen assembly defines a second hinge portion that cooperates with the first hinge portion of the housing to pivotally couple the screen assembly with the housing such that the screen assembly can rotate through a range of angles relative to the housing. The screen assembly can be configured to rotate independent of movement of the headrest. In some embodiments the system further comprises a retaining harness coupled with both the mounting plate of the headrest and the metallic frame of the screen assembly. The harness can be configured to limit the range of angles through which the screen assembly can rotate. The harness further can be configured to prevent movement of the screen assembly beyond a predetermined distance from the mounting plate. Optionally in some embodiments the system comprises a headrest configured to be installed in a vehicle. The headrest can comprise a mounting plate.

In certain embodiments a method of restraining movement of an entertainment system comprises providing a headrest having a mounting plate. The method can further comprise coupling a housing with the mounting plate of the headrest. The method can further comprise coupling a screen assembly with the housing such that the screen assembly can rotate relative to the housing. The method can further comprise connecting a retaining harness at a first end with the mounting plate and at a second end with the screen assembly.

In certain embodiments an entertainment system includes a screen assembly having a display and a signal generating device. The entertainment system can also include a housing having a lower portion an upper portion and a housing cavity defined by the lower and upper portions the housing cavity being sized and shaped to receive substantially the screen assembly. The upper portion can be sized and shaped to receive at least a portion of the signal generating device. In some embodiments the screen assembly can be pivotally coupled to the housing such that the screen assembly can rotate relative to the housing the lower portion having an opening that is sized and shaped to allow at least a portion of the screen assembly to rotate through the opening. In some embodiments the entertainment system can also include a shell substantially fixed to a headrest in a vehicle the shell having a lower portion an upper portion and a shell cavity defined by the upper and lower portions of the shell the shell cavity being sized and shaped to receive substantially the housing. The upper portion of the shell can be sized and shaped to receive at least a portion of the upper portion of the housing. The lower portion of the shell can be sized and shaped to receive substantially the lower portion of the housing the shell being coupled with the housing and substantially fixed to the housing.

The headrest entertainment assembly includes a vehicle headrest and an entertainment system . Preferably the headrest entertainment assembly is mounted in a vehicle such as a car. As used herein car is a broad term and is used in its ordinary sense and refers without limitation to any personal land transportation vehicle e.g. a passenger automobile a truck a van a minivan a sport utility vehicle and similar such vehicles. Certain features aspects and advantages of the embodiments described herein can be used with other vehicles.

The headrest entertainment assembly can be constructed by various preferred methods which are discussed below. Broadly in one method the headrest is formed about other portions of the headrest entertainment assembly so as to provide an integral unit. In other methods interchangeability of components is enhanced by making the headrest separable from other components of the headrest entertainment assembly .

Features of the vehicle headrest are discussed below in connection with various embodiments. In one variation discussed below the headrest forms a portion of a seat of a vehicle and can be separately movable or adjustable relative to other portions of the seat. Although the headrest environment is preferred in other embodiments entertainment systems comprising a sub combination of the components of the assembly can be deployed in an upper region of a seat e.g. a seat back. The headrest can take other suitable forms.

The headrest entertainment assembly also includes a mounting system . In one variation the mounting system includes at least one seat post that extends between the headrest and a seat back not shown to which the headrest can be coupled. In the illustrated embodiment the mounting system includes two seat posts . The seat posts can be solid or hollow and can be configured to convey signals from or to the headrest entertainment assembly . Preferably where two or more seat posts are provided at least one of the seat posts is hollow having a passage extending therethrough in which at least a portion of a cable conveying the signal can be located. As discussed further below in some embodiments the size of the passage can be enlarged by reducing the thickness of a wall of the seat posts . As discussed further below in some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes a signal source mounted in the headrest . In other embodiments a signal source is not mounted in the headrest but is located elsewhere within the vehicle. In other embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes multiple signal sources one or more of which can be mounted in the headrest and one or more of which can be located elsewhere in the vehicle. In other embodiments multiple entertainment systems can be provided in multiple headrests. In other embodiments multiple entertainment systems and multiple signal sources can be provided such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 871 356 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The seat post arrangement facilitates adjustability of the headrest entertainment assembly . This adjustability can be combined with additional modes of adjustability such as tilting of a monitor or other portion of the headrest entertainment assembly as discussed further below.

As discussed further below the construction of the mounting system e.g. of the posts may be such that cables that interconnect a plurality of entertainment systems can be quickly and efficiently routed therethrough. As discussed further below one way to facilitate quick routing of a signal cable through the post is by increasing the inner cross sectional size e.g. diameter of a hollow passage extending through the post . As discussed further below the inner cross sectional size of a passage extending through the posts can be increased by increasing the size e.g. the inner and outer diameter of the posts . In some applications the outer size of the posts can not be increased because the size of a corresponding post hole in the seat back in which the post is inserted is selected by car or seat manufacture and cannot easily be increased. In some situations such as when the outer size of the posts cannot easily be increased the mounting system can be configured to permit the wall thickness of the posts to be decreased. By providing a fixed outer size and by reducing the thickness of the wall of the post the inner size of the passage in the post can be increased making routing of signal cables easier. In some arrangements discussed further below the mounting system is configured to permit the wall thickness of the posts to be decreased by providing a reinforced member that extends between two posts . The mounting system is discussed in more detail in connection with .

In one embodiment the headrest includes a forward facing side that includes a pad or a pillow to cushion the head of an occupant in the seat with which the headrest is coupled. The pillow may extend to any of a top bottom side facing side and rear facing side of the headrest as shown in . Preferably the pillow is formed by blow molding a foam material into a mold having a shape and design appropriate for the car in which the headrest is to be used. For example the headrest can have the same outer shape and design as the factory headrest. The pad can then be wrapped in a suitable material such as a fabric e.g. solid or perforated leather or other suitable material. As discussed further below in one technique the pad is blow molded directly onto a portion of the mounting system such that the pad and the mounting system are integrally connected. In another technique a pad is blow molded as a separate component and is configured to receive at least a portion of the mounting system during assembly such that the pad and the mounting assembly could be disassembled after shipment from the factory.

As discussed above the pillow provides cushioning for a person seated in the seat with which the headrest is coupled e.g. to minimize injury in the event of an accident. The headrest preferably also includes a rear facing side . Preferably an entertainment system mounting cavity is formed in the headrest . In some embodiments the entertainment system mounting cavity is accessible from the rear facing side .

Access can be provided to the entertainment system mounting cavity through a mounting cavity aperture . Preferably the mounting cavity aperture is shaped to receive the entertainment system . In one embodiment the aperture is at least partially surrounded by a plurality of edges on the rear facing side of the headrest . The aperture can also be partly surrounded by at least one edge on a top surface of the headrest . In some arrangements the headrest includes an intermediate surface that extends between the top surface and the rear facing surface . The intermediate surface can be curved or flat e.g. radiused or beveled. Accordingly the mounting cavity aperture can be at least partly surrounded by one or more edges that extend between the top surface and the rear facing surface of the headrest . In other embodiments the mounting cavity aperture can be at least partially surrounded by one or more edges located on a bottom surface of the headrest .

As discussed below in some embodiments the entertainment system is configured to be able to move when positioned in the mounting cavity aperture . For example in some embodiments the entertainment system can pivot at least partially into and out of the entertainment system mounting cavity through the mounting cavity aperture .

In some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes a cooling system to maintain the operating temperature of the components of the headrest entertainment assembly in an acceptable range. Further details of the cooling system are discussed below. In one embodiment the headrest includes an opening or aperture adjacent which at least a portion of the cooling system can be mounted. The aperture is one configuration of a venting structure that can be incorporated to enhance cooling of the headrest entertainment assembly . In some embodiments at least one of a plurality of apertures and other venting structures adjacent an external surface of the assembly can be provided to enhance cooling. For example as discussed below a first aperture can be provided on one surface and a second aperture can be provided on a second surface that is opposite the first surface. This arrangement advantageously increases cross flow from the first aperture to the second aperture. Cooling of the components of the headrest entertainment assembly can be further enhanced by additional venting structures and by devices e.g. one or more fans which increase flow across the components thereof. Features of various embodiments of cooling systems will be discussed in greater detail below.

In certain embodiments the entertainment system includes a signal source and a monitor . In other embodiments the entertainment system also includes a component cover . In some embodiments the entertainment system further includes a monitor assembly which includes the monitor and facilitates mounting of the monitor. As discussed below the monitor assembly provides one or more advantageous features such as housing the monitor protecting the monitor from damage locating associated components nearby and enabling moving or pivoting of the monitor relative to the headrest as discussed further below.

In some embodiments the entertainment system also includes a component mounting frame to which at least one of the monitor and the signal source are secured. In some arrangements the mounting frame together with at least one component provides a unitary construction. In one embodiment the mounting frame provides a rigid structure for mounting at least one component. In some arrangements the mounting frame is configured to be coupled with the monitor assembly and the signal source . As discussed further below the mounting frame also can be configured to be coupled with the cover in some embodiments.

In one embodiment the monitor assembly the signal source and the cover are all coupled with the mounting frame prior to insertion into the entertainment system mounting cavity . Preassembling the monitor assembly the signal source and the cover to the mounting frame together is convenient for installation because an installer does not have to separately assemble these components which can be easily damaged during the installation process if not handled carefully. Further details of techniques for assembling the headrest entertainment assembly are discussed below.

In one arrangement the monitor assembly is coupled with the frame by a hinge which may comprise the bracket portions .

Coupling of the hinge mounts of the first and second elongate bracket portions can be facilitated by a suitable fastener for example a screw or bolt. In other arrangements a detent arrangement can be relied upon at least in part to couple the first and second elongate portions . In some embodiments means for securing the coupling of the first and second elongate portions or of two portions of the coupling portion can be provided. In one embodiment the means includes a bonding grease that provides a tighter fit between the first and second elongate portions . Where provided the bonding grease can take any suitable form. Preferably the bonding grease enables movement of the first and second elongate portions relative to each other upon application of a threshold force but prevents such movement upon forces less than the threshold force. Preferably the securing means e.g. the bonding grease prevents the bracket portions from becoming separated from each other due to normal vibration that are induced in the monitor assembly from the vehicle. In other embodiments the securing means comprises a suitable adhesive which substantially prevents movement due to vibration or any other force.

When the first and second elongated brackets are coupled at the hinge mounts the monitor assembly is able to pivot relative to the component mounting frame . As shown in in one embodiment the component mounting frame includes a plurality e.g. two monitor coupling portions . also show that in some embodiments a plurality of e.g. two hinges can be provided such as by providing a second elongated bracket on each side of the monitor assembly . The illustrated arrangement permits the monitor assembly to pivot about an axis Aextending through the second elongated brackets . In particular the monitor assembly pivots about the axis Aat an end of the second elongated bracket opposite an end that is coupled with the first elongate mounting bracket in one embodiment.

As discussed further below the pivoting of the monitor assembly about the axis Aserves multiple functions. For example pivoting enables the monitor to be positioned in an orientation that is most comfortable for the user to view the video signal visible thereon. Pivoting also can enable convenient assembly by providing an installation position in which the monitor assembly is spaced from the frame sufficiently to expose mounting structures as discussed below.

The component mounting frame preferably also includes a component cover mount portion . The component cover mount portion can comprise a bracket. In one embodiment the component cover mount portion is located behind e.g. at a location further recessed from the surface in the mounting cavity aperture when the assembly is assembled the monitor coupling portion . Preferably the component cover mount portion is located behind a front side of the component mounting frame . In one embodiment the component cover mount portion extends to a location vertically above a component mounting area . The component mounting area provides a space or volume into which the signal source can be positioned or mounted as discussed below. The component mounting area can be partially or completely enclosed. In some embodiments the component mounting area is substantially exposed on a plurality of e.g. on four sides.

The component mounting frame also preferably includes one or more cooling system mounts . One embodiment of the mounts is shown in detail in . In one arrangement the mount comprises a pair of posts each of which includes an elongated slot into which a component of the cooling system can slide. The slots of the cooling system mounts enable quick assembly of the cooling system and the component mounting frame . As shown in the mounts also can include holes formed at an end thereof spaced from the portion of the frame adjacent the monitor assembly . Preferably the holes in the mounts are threaded to engage screws. In one assembly technique as shown in a cooling fan is positioned between the cooling system mounts . The cooling fan is secured in place with fasteners that are advanced through threaded holes in the mounts . In some embodiments each fastener comprises a flange of sufficient width to contact the cooling fan . The flange applies a force to an upper surface of the cooling fan which prevents the fan from sliding out of the mounts. In other embodiments the fasteners are coupled with washers. In still other embodiments the fasteners are coupled with a stiff elongate piece that extends between the mounts and contacts a top surface of the fan . Each fastener may be secured to a hole in any suitable fashion e.g. with threads or a combination of threads and an adhesives whereby loosening of the fastener is minimized or prevented.

The component mounting frame also preferably includes at least one off set mount post . In one embodiment a plurality of e.g. four off set mount post is provided. In other embodiments less than four e.g. one two or three off set mount posts are provided adjacent an outer portion of the component mount area . The off set mount posts are configured to couple with the mounting system as discussed further below. The off set mount posts can be configured as elongated structures enabling the component mounting frame to be connected to or otherwise coupled with the mounting system . Preferably the off set mount posts are at least as long as and preferably longer than the height or thickness of the signal source . This arrangement provides sufficient clearance between the signal source and the mounting system .

The off set mount posts can be configured as conical structures. In one arrangement the off set mount posts are elongated conical structures that have an aperture formed at an end thereof spaced from the portion of the components mount frame adjacent to the monitor assembly . The aperture in the off set mount posts preferably is configured for a connecting member e.g. a screw to be advanced therethrough to couple with the mounting system as discussed below. In another arrangement the off set mount posts are elongated conical structures with the aperture formed at an end thereof spaced from the component mount frame . In another arrangement the off set mount posts are hollow with an aperture adjacent the portion of the components mount frame adjacent to the monitor assembly . As discussed further below connecting members can be advanced through at least one of the apertures and received by the mounting system to securely fasten the component mounting frame to the mounting system .

In one embodiment the component mounting frame also includes at least one signal source mounting portion . In one embodiment multiple signal source mounting portions are provided. In one arrangement four signal source mounting portions are provided. In another arrangement five signal source mounting portions are provided. Signal source mounting portions can be located adjacent an outer portion of the component mount area . The one or more signal source mounting portions are pegs that limit the movement of the signal source but do not coupled with the signal source .

In other embodiments the signal source mounting portions include a bracket through which a fastening member e.g. a screw or a bolt can be inserted and to couple the signal source with the component mounting frame . In particular a bracket can extend at least partially around the rear side of the component e.g. the side farthest from the portion of the component mounting frame adjacent to the monitor assembly and be coupled thereto by at least one fastener e.g. a screw . Preferably in this arrangement the bracket also includes a plurality of flanges that extend out to the signal source mounting post . In some arrangements connecting members can be advanced through these brackets and into threaded holes formed on exposed surfaces of the signal source mounting portions .

The component mounting frame is configured to facilitate other aspects and features of the entertainment system . For example the component mounting frame can include a generally planar structure having one or more slots formed therein. The slots can be elongated and positioned close together. Also a large number of slots can be provided so as to reduce the weight of the component mounting frame . In some arrangements discussed below the slots function as vents directing heat generated by one or more components away from the entertainment system . This feature is discussed more below in connection with an overall discussion of heat dissipation in the headrest entertainment assembly .

In one embodiment a monitor assembly cavity is formed on a forward side of the component mounting frame . The cavity permits the monitor assembly to be moved to a fully closed position which is a retracted position shown in . In a retracted position the monitor assembly may be positioned within the headrest e.g. at a location in front of the rear facing side thereof.

In one embodiment the monitor is one component of the monitor assembly . The monitor includes a display in one embodiment that can receive video signals from the signal source and display images based on the video signals. In one embodiment the display or monitor is an active matrix TFT LCD panel. Preferably the monitor is relatively thin enabling the entertainment system to be mounted in a standard headrest . In one embodiment the monitor is a 7 inch TFT LCD display. The monitor can have a 16 9 widescreen format. The size of the monitor can vary based on the size of the vehicle structure with which it is coupled e.g. with the size of a headrest within the scope of this application.

In one embodiment the monitor is mounted in a monitor housing . The housing provides various functions. For example the monitor housing enables users to handle the monitor assembly without directly touching the monitor . Also the monitor housing is able to absorb some shock to reduce the likelihood that normal interaction with occupants and objects in a vehicle will damage the monitor . The monitor housing also can host a plurality of controls . The controls can be conventional controls such as would control the operation of the monitor or an aspect of reproduction of the information from the signal source. In one arrangement the controls include a feature whereby transmission of a portion of the signal generated by the signal source e.g. an audio component is controlled such as is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 361 744 filed on Feb. 7 2003 and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0080213 A1 on Apr. 29 2004 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The entertainment system preferably also includes a locking device . The locking device can be mounted on the monitor assembly on the components mounting frame or a portion on each of the monitor assembly and the components mounting frame . In one embodiment the locking device includes a catch member and an actuatable latch member . The catch member can be located on the component mounting frame e.g. at least partially within the monitor assembly cavity . The actuatable latch member can be located on the monitor housing e.g. adjacent a lower edge thereof. The locking device maintains the monitor in a fully closed position discussed further below until the locking device is unlocked for example by actuating the movable latch . The locking device also can take suitable conventional forms.

In one embodiment the monitor assembly also includes a motion limiter device . In one embodiment the motion limiter device includes a looped portion A coupled at both ends with a mount fixture B as shown in . The motion limiter device can take other forms e.g. as an S hook a chain an elastic member string or other conventional coupler. The motion limiter device can comprise an elongate member configured to be connected to the component mounting frame at one end and to a mount portion located on the monitor housing at another end. For example a post or other structure for coupling to one end of the motion limiter device can be formed in the monitor assembly cavity . In another arrangement an aperture e.g. a threaded hole can be formed in the monitor assembly cavity and the motion limiter device can be coupled with the component mounting frame via the aperture e.g. with a fastener an adhesive a combination thereof or other suitable means. In one embodiment the mount portion comprises a hook or other structure for coupling to an end of the motion limiter device .

In one arrangement the motion limiter can be quickly disengaged to allow the monitor housing to move to an assembly position discussed below. This is facilitated in one arrangement by permanently affixing one end of the motion limiter in the monitor assembly cavity and looping the other end around a hook formed on the rear side of the monitor housing .

As discussed above the monitor assembly is coupled with the mounting frame in the preferred embodiment. In one arrangement the monitor assembly is configured to move relative to the component mounting frame . Movement of the monitor assembly can alter the orientation of the monitor . The arrangement described above enables the monitor of the monitor assembly to move relative to the headrest between a plurality of positions. For example in one embodiment a fully closed position is provided in which the monitor is retracted into the monitor assembly cavity . The fully closed position is illustrated in . Another position is illustrated in and wherein the monitor is tilted out such that a lower end thereof is spaced farther from the monitor assembly cavity than is an upper portion of the monitor .

Preferably the monitor assembly is configured such that when the monitor is positioned in an installation position such as that shown in the monitor maintains its orientation relative to the base of the monitor assembly cavity . Such an arrangement can be provided by configuring the monitor coupling portion e.g. the hinge mount s such that the monitor locks in place when in the installation position. In one arrangement the motion limiter can be a bracket or other compression member which holds the monitor in the assembly orientation. One collapsible bracket arrangement is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 044 546 which is incorporated by reference above.

Preferably the monitor assembly also includes a plurality of apertures formed in a rear surface thereof. The apertures in the rear surface of the monitor assembly enable heat generated by the monitor to be removed from the monitor assembly . As discussed above the component mounting frame is configured to transfer such heat through apertures formed therein. The apertures can be similar to the apertures . In some embodiments the configuration and position of the apertures and the apertures are the same so that heat can be efficiently vented from the monitor and from the monitor assembly cavity . Such heat can further be removed by way of a cooling system discussed below.

The venting structure can be configured to be substantially invisible to the naked eye of passengers in some arrangements. In one embodiment the cover is formed of a permeable material lacking visible holes but through which warm air can be quickly conveyed. Also a cover may include different numbers of holes in different regions based upon where greater heat is expected to be found. The function of the venting structures in combination with a cooling system will be discussed in greater detail below.

The cover preferably has at least two positions. In a first position the cover is moved to conform to an upper surface of the component mounting frame . For example the cover can be moved to conform to or to extend over or otherwise cover the component cover mount portion . In one embodiment the cover is moved to extend over the component access aperture which is a position sometimes referred to herein as the closed position of the cover . The closed position advantageously limits access to the component access aperture . In some arrangements the top of the cover is at an elevation below the top of the headrest . In other arrangements the top of the cover is substantially flush with a top surface of the headrest which provides a sleek continuous appearance as viewed from the front of the headrest .

The cover advantageously prevents foreign objects from extending or falling into the access aperture when in the closed position. This feature can prevent such objects from becoming lodged in the signal source . For example a passengers sitting in the seat with which the headrest is coupled may have long hair. Without the cover in the closed position the person s long hair could slip through the component access aperture and into the signal source . If the signal source has moving parts and is operating the person s hair might become wound around the moving parts. This could harm the person the signal source or both.

As discussed above in some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly is configured to efficiently remove heat from the entertainment system mounting cavity of the headrest. The heat to be removed can be generated by components mounted therein e.g. the monitor and the signal source . In one form the headrest entertainment assembly is configured for efficient removal of heat by including one or more openings that provide fluid communication between the cavity and the exterior of the headrest .

In some embodiments an airflow path is defined between a first aperture that extends through an outer cover of the headrest a second aperture A that extends through the pillow and a third aperture B that extends through an entertainment system mounting bracket as shown in . Further enhanced cooling can be provided by including the first second and third apertures A and B on both sides of the headrest entertainment assembly . The outer cover may comprise fabric such as solid or perforated leather or other suitable material. In some embodiments the aperture cover extends across the aperture as discussed above. The aperture cover may be attached to the outer cover by any suitable means such as for example by stitching. In some arrangements the aperture cover and outer cover form one unitary piece of material.

In certain embodiments an opening in the pillow aligns with the opening in the outer cover . The opening in the pillow may be formed by removing a portion of the pillow such as by cutting out or punching out the portion. In some embodiments the opening is formed during fabrication of the pillow. For example the mold of a blow molded pillow may be shaped to provide for an opening in the pillow once the mold is removed.

In certain embodiments an opening in the entertainment system mounting bracket is aligned with the openings in the outer cover and the pillow . As discussed above the off set mounting posts may be longer than the height or thickness of the signal source . In such arrangements when the mounting posts are fastened to the entertainment system mounting bracket a cavity is formed between the signal source and the entertainment system mounting bracket . In some embodiments this cavity is in fluid communication with the airflow path defined through the apertures A and B allowing heated air to escape from the cavity through the aperture.

In some embodiments the openings in the entertainment system mounting bracket the outer cover and the pillow may be offset from each other. In further embodiments the airflow path is defined within a conduit e.g. a tube extending through the openings.

In various embodiments as discussed above a plurality of apertures are provided to enhance cooling by creating cross flow past heat generating or past heat sensitive components. As shown in in some configurations the apertures may extend through opposing sides of the outer cover the pillow and the entertainment system mounting bracket of the headrest . In some embodiments a cavity is formed between the signal source and the entertainment system mounting bracket . The cavity may be in fluid communication with the plurality of apertures thereby allowing a cross flow of air through the headrest . While in some cases a natural cross flow is sufficient to remove unwanted heat from the headrest various embodiments provide further enhanced cooling by the structures discussed above. For example in one embodiment a cooling fan is coupled with the cooling system mounts as described above.

In certain embodiments the housing A is sized to be inserted between the cooling system mounts as described above with respect to . In some embodiments the width of the housing A is slightly less than the distance between the mounts and the thickness of the housing is slightly less than the width of the elongated slots of the mounts thereby ensuring a snug fit of the housing within the mounts. In some embodiments the width of the housing A is between about 25 millimeters and about 60 millimeters and the thickness is between about 5 millimeters and 15 millimeters. In one embodiment the width of the housing A is about 40 millimeters and the thickness is about 10.5 millimeters. As shown in in some embodiments the housing A may be substantially square. In one such embodiment the width and height of the housing A are each about 40 millimeters and the thickness is about 10.5 millimeters.

In some embodiments the housing A comprises a plurality of openings G H. The openings G may provide an alternative means of mounting the cooling fan to the component mounting frame . In some configurations fasteners are inserted through the openings G to secure the housing A to a portion of the component mounting frame . In some embodiments the openings G H reduce the weight of the housing A without compromising the structural integrity of the housing. The openings G H may allow venting in addition to that provided by other openings F of the housing A.

The blades B may meet at a common junction not shown . In some embodiments the junction is coupled with the central portion D of the housing A in a manner that allows rotation. In the embodiment depicted in the axis of rotation is about a line extending perpendicularly through a plane defined by the perimeter portion C. In some configurations the blades D rotate clockwise about the axis and in others the blades rotate counter clockwise.

In some configurations it is desirable that the housing A and blades B be substantially rigid and lightweight. The housing A and the blades B may comprise any suitable material such as plastic.

In certain embodiments the cooling fan comprises a lead for coupling with a power source not shown . In some embodiments the power source operates between about 9.5 Volts and about 15 Volts. The power source provides a direct current in some configurations. The cooling fan can be powered by the car battery. In some embodiments a battery dedicated to the headrest entertainment assembly powers the cooling fan .

The cooling fan can be oriented or configured to force a cooling fluid e.g. air into the cavity to enhance convective cooling of heat generating or heat sensitive components located therein. The cooling fan can be oriented or configured to draw a cooling fluid e.g. air out of the cavity to enhance convective cooling. Also a plurality of fans can be used e.g. one to force air into an aperture and another to draw air out through another opening enhancing cooling.

The openings can also be used in combination with other venting structures such as the venting structures discussed above. This arrangement permits cross flow of air and allows hot air rising within the cavity to escape therefrom. In another embodiment the openings and the venting structure are combined with one or more fans.

As discussed above further enhancement of the cooling system can be incorporated into one or more support structures located inside the cavity . For example the slots and apertures and are configured to permit air to move away from components that may be heat generators or heat sensitive e.g. the monitor or the signal source . The slots can be aligned with the apertures to enhance this movement away from such components and into the stream of flow created by the at least one aperture .

Additional cooling can be achieved forward of the entertainment system . For example in one embodiment at least one component of the mounting system includes perforations or a plurality of small holes through which the movement of hot air can be enhanced. This arrangement fosters additional convective cooling on the forward side of the signal source in the illustrated embodiment.

Various structures have been discussed above that facilitate the efficient removal of heat from the headrest entertainment assembly . Efficient removal of heat is facilitated in some embodiments by providing enhanced flow within the headrest e.g. in the entertainment system mounting cavity . In the figures structures that enhance cooling e.g. by heat transfer by convection are further illustrates with arrows indicating airflow. Although arrowheads generally indicate the direction of airflow e.g. from the tail of the arrow to the head some structures permit airflow to be directed toward the head or toward the tail of the arrow shown.

With reference to and an arrow indicates airflow through the aperture or apertures A B . In one arrangement the airflow indicated by the arrow is through the aperture into the cavity . In some applications where relatively little heat is generated or the electronics housed in the headrest are resistant to heat induced failure such flow may be sufficient to cool the components. In other embodiments the cooling fan is mounted to the cooling system mounts such that it is adjacent to the aperture . In this arrangement greater amounts of airflow can be directed into the cavity as indicated by the arrow . An arrow indicates that airflow also can escape from or be forced out of the cavity through another aperture or set of apertures B A which can be located on an opposite side of the headrest . This advantageously creates cross flow which is a greater amount of airflow than would be provided through the cavity in the absence of the aperture or another venting structure as described herein.

In most embodiments cross flow is enhanced by providing a plurality of pathways for airflow into and out of the cavity . In the embodiment of two apertures are provided to enhance cross flow through the cavity . In another embodiment the venting structures are a second airflow pathway enabling air to escape from the headrest permitting a greater amount of airflow through the headrest. illustrate that cross flow is a broad term that includes the positioning of multiple venting structure or apertures on sides of the headrest that are not directly across from each other. Cross flow enhancing arrangements can be provided by providing at least two venting structures on any combination of the side the top or the bottom of the headrest . In some embodiments a plurality of venting structure are provided on the same side of the headrest e.g. one adjacent the fan and one spaced therefrom.

As discussed above the venting structures are particularly beneficial in providing for egress of heat by convection from the cavity because hot air will rise toward the top of the cavity. One system that provides particularly rapid cooling of the cavity incorporates a plurality of apertures formed on surfaces of the headrest and the venting structure on a top surface of the assembly e.g. on the aperture cover .

In some applications the assembly includes a heat management system that incorporates external venting structures e.g. at least one of the aperture s and the venting structure and one or more internal structure configured to enhance heat transfer away from at least one heat generating component. For example as discussed above the heat management system can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on electronic components or housings therefore such as the apertures formed in the monitor assembly . The heat management system also can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on structures that are partly or occasionally exposed to the external ambient such as the slots formed in the component mounting frame . The heat management system also can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on structures that are enclosed in or at least substantially entirely enclosed in the cavity e.g. the holes formed in the entertainment system mounting bracket .

By combining the venting structures and other heat transfer enhancing structures more electronic devices can be packed into the confined space of the headrest whereby greater functionality and performance is provided to the assembly .

The structures discussed herein for efficiently removing heat from the headrest entertainment assembly provide several advantages. For example by providing sufficient cooling multiple components can be mounted within the cavity while maintaining levels of heat that are acceptable to the passenger. Also the level of heat in the cavity is kept at an acceptable level to reduce component failure due to excessive heating. These and other features make the devices disclosed and claimed herein particularly advantageous.

As discussed above the headrest entertainment assembly also includes a mounting system that facilitates installation of the entertainment system in the entertainment system mounting cavity of the headrest .

In one arrangement the mounting system includes one or more e.g. two seat posts a pillow mounting bracket an entertainment system mounting bracket and an entertainment system mounting feature . In one arrangement as discussed above the entertainment system mounting bracket is perforated e.g. with the plurality of small holes formed therein.

In one arrangement the entertainment system mounting feature comprises a plurality of posts e.g. four posts which extend through corresponding apertures in the entertainment system mounting bracket . The posts can be threaded to facilitate fastening of the perforated entertainment system mounting bracket to the pillow mounting bracket . In one arrangement the pillow mounting bracket includes a recess which may be a substantially U shaped recess formed on an upper side of the pillow mounting bracket. To give the headrest a more solid feel a spacer member may be positioned between the pillow and the entertainment system mounting bracket .

Further features of the pillow mounting bracket increase the strength of the headrest entertainment assembly particularly of the headrest . In one embodiment as shown in the pillow mounting bracket includes a first plate like portion A and a second plate like portion B. To provide additional strength to the pillow mounting bracket at least one of the plate like portions A B is provided with one or more reinforcing members to increase the strength of the portion of the plate like portions A B that resides between the posts . In one arrangement the reinforcing member comprises an elongated depression or channel formed in at least one of the plate like portions A B. The depression or channel increases the resistance of the plate like portion to bending or creasing along a plane parallel to the posts in the event of a collision. This arrangement provides other advantages. For example it can permit other components to be less bulky. For example a thinner walled post could be used. As discussed below providing a thinner walled post increases clearance for routing cables which makes assembly of the headrest entertainment assembly much easier.

In one technique thereafter the entertainment system mounting bracket is coupled with the pillow mounting bracket in the cavity . illustrate that after the entertainment system mounting bracket is coupled with the pillow mounting bracket the pillow mounting bracket is not able to be separated from the portion of the headrest including the pillow . This is one technique for assembling the mounting system to the portion of the headrest including the pillow . In one embodiment the entertainment system mounting bracket includes a passage for routing cables from the entertainment system as discussed below.

In some embodiments techniques for quickly and efficiently assembling the headrest entertainment assembly involve routing signal cables through the mounting system . In particular one advantageous technique routes signal cables through one or more mount posts .

Further techniques for assembling the headrest entertainment assembly are discussed above. In particular the monitor assembly can be coupled with the frame as discussed above in connection with . Thereafter the monitor can be tilted to an installation position such as is shown in . Thereafter fasteners and the motion limiter can be applied to couple the frame to the mounting system .

In the illustrated embodiment one branch of a first electrical line and one branch of a second electrical line extend from the tube which in some embodiments is a heat shrink tube. In certain embodiments the first electrical line comprises a fuse and an interlocking connector configured to couple with the noise suppressor . In certain embodiments the second electrical line comprises an interlocking connector configured to couple with the noise suppressor . The noise suppressor can be coupled with the power source .

With reference to in some embodiments each adapter connector includes a coupling interface for coupling with an entertainment system connector . In certain advantageous embodiments the coupling interface includes any suitable interface such as a pin sheath or a plug socket interface for creating a mechanical and electrical connection between an adapter connector and an entertainment system connector . In the illustrated embodiment the coupling interface of the adapter connector comprises seven pins for coupling with an entertainment system connector having seven sheaths.

As described in further detail below in certain embodiments the adapter allows entertainment systems to be interconnected rapidly and efficiently. In some advantageous embodiments the adapter couples an output of a first entertainment system with an input of a second entertainment system and couples an output of the second entertainment system with an input of the first entertainment system . In many embodiments the entertainment system connectors of the entertainment systems have the same configuration and the first branch or the second branch of the adapter can be coupled with either the first or second entertainment system . Accordingly the first and second adapter branches can be interchangeable which can greatly facilitate installation of multiple entertainment systems . Additionally the adapter can couple multiple entertainment systems with a power source via a single set of electrical lines which can also facilitate installation.

As schematically illustrated in in certain embodiments the entertainment system comprises the signal source and the monitor . The signal source is capable of producing a signal at least a portion of which is displayable on the monitor . In some embodiments the signal source is a device that reads a form of media and produces a signal at least partially displayable on the monitor . For example the signal source can be a DVD player a photo card reader or an MP3 player.

In some configurations the entertainment system comprises an output for communicating the signal produced by the signal source to a device other than the monitor . For example via the output of one entertainment system the signal from the signal source can be communicated to a separate entertainment system . In some embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system comprises the output . In other embodiments the signal source of the entertainment system comprises the output . In still other embodiments a pin plug or other coupling device of the entertainment system connector comprises the output .

In some configurations the entertainment system comprises an input for receiving a signal. In some arrangements the signal received via the input of one entertainment system is generated by the signal source of a separate entertainment system . In some embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system comprises the input . In other embodiments the signal source of the entertainment system comprises the input . In still other embodiments a pin plug or other coupling device of the entertainment system connector comprises the input . Accordingly in some embodiments a single connector comprises the input and the output of the entertainment system .

In certain embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system is operable in more than one state. In some embodiments the monitor displays at least a portion of a signal communicated via the output when in one state and displays at least a portion of a signal received via the input when in another state. For example in some preferred embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems generating separate signals. In a first state the monitor of the first entertainment system displays at least a portion of a first signal generated by the first signal source that is communicated via the output and in a second state the monitor displays at least a portion of a second signal generated by the second system and obtained via the input . In some embodiments the entertainment system comprises multiple inputs and or multiple outputs . In certain of such embodiments the monitor can operate in multiple states displaying the signal associated with each input or output of the entertainment system in at least one separate state.

In some embodiments the entertainment system comprises one or more transmitters for delivering audio information. In certain preferred embodiments the transmitter operates at infrared frequencies. In other embodiments the transmitter operates at radio frequencies. In some embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems each one comprising a transmitter . In certain of such embodiments the first entertainment system is configured to generate a first video signal and a first audio signal to deliver at least a portion of the first video signal via the first output to deliver at least a portion of the first audio signal via the first transmitter and or to receive at least a portion of a second video signal via the first input . In certain embodiments the second entertainment system is configured to generate the second video signal and a second audio signal to deliver at least a portion of the second video signal via the second output to deliver at least a portion of the second audio signal via the second transmitter preferably at a frequency different from that employed by the first transmitter and or to receive at least a portion of the first video signal via the second input . By selecting among operating states a user can access the first or second video signal via the monitor of either system . The user can also select the first or second audio signal via a receiver such as a radio within the vehicle or a personal headset by tuning to the transmitted frequency.

In certain embodiments signals are communicated from and or delivered to the entertainment system via the entertainment system cable . The entertainment system cable can comprise one or more communication lines such as for example electrical wires optical fibers and or any other suitable lines for communicating information. In certain embodiments the input and the output of the entertainment system are each coupled with a separate communication line . Accordingly in some embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises one communication line dedicated to the input and another communication line dedicated to the output of the entertainment system . In other embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises a separate communication line for each of multiple inputs and multiple outputs of the entertainment system .

In some embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises one or more electrical lines for delivering power to the entertainment system . The electrical lines can comprise electrical wires or any other suitable lines for transmitting power. The entertainment system cable can also include one or more electrical lines for electrically grounding the entertainment system . For example in some configurations the entertainment system cable comprises one electrical line for coupling the system with a ground of the power source and comprises another electrical line providing a common reference or common ground for the entertainment systems .

As illustrated in in certain embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises a coupling interface . The coupling interface can include any suitable interface such as a pin sheath or a plug socket interface for creating a connection with a coupling interface of an adapter connector . The connection can be a mechanical connection a friction fit or some other suitable connection. In some embodiments the coupling interface comprises a plurality of couplers which are sheaths in the illustrated embodiment. In certain arrangements a separate coupler or sheath is coupled with each communication line or electrical line of the entertainment system cable . For example in the illustrated embodiment one sheath is coupled with a communication line dedicated to the output of the entertainment system and another sheath is coupled with a communication line dedicated to the input of the entertainment system . In some preferred configurations each sheath is sized to contact an outer surface of a pin as described below.

In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector is sized and configured to extend through the post of the headrest . As described above the inner cross sectional size e.g. diameter of a hollow passage extending through the post can be increased to allow the passage therethrough of a larger entertainment system connector comprising a greater number of sheaths . In some situations this can be accomplished by increasing the size e.g. the inner and outer diameter of the posts . In other situations the wall thickness of the posts can be decreased. In the embodiment illustrated in the entertainment system connector comprises seven sheaths . Other embodiments can comprise more or fewer sheaths .

With continued reference to in certain embodiments an adapter connector comprises a coupling interface having a plurality of couplers which are pins in the illustrated embodiment that are configured to cooperate with the sheaths . As noted above arrangements other than pin sheath or plug socket interfaces are possible for the coupling interfaces . In the illustrated embodiment each of the couplers or pins is sized and dimensioned to fit snugly within a corresponding sheath . In preferred embodiments at least a portion of each pin and each sheath is capable of conducting electrical signals. The conducting portions of the pins and sheaths preferably contact one another when the entertainment system connector and adapter connector are coupled.

In other embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises pins and the adapter connector comprises sheaths . In still other embodiments each connector comprises a combination of pins and sheaths . In some configurations the connectors comprise complementary connection interface members configured to transmit optical signals rather than electrical signals.

In certain embodiments the connector comprises a sleeve . In some embodiments the pins are housed within the sleeve and do not extend beyond a rim also shown in of the sleeve . Accordingly in some embodiments the sleeve can protect the pins from being bent or otherwise damaged prior to coupling with the sheaths of the connector . In many embodiments the connector is sized and configured to fit snugly within the sleeve when coupled with the connector .

In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector and adapter connector can be joined only when the sheaths and the pins are properly aligned. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the adapter connector can comprise a ridge that extends inwardly from the sleeve of the connector . In certain embodiments the ridge is sized and shaped to fit in a channel of the entertainment system connector . As illustrated in the adapter connector can comprise an indicator such as an imprinted or painted arrow on an outer surface thereof for demonstrating the location of the ridge on an inner surface thereof. In many embodiments the indicator permits proper connection of the entertainment system connector and the adapter connector without inspection of the inner surface of the adapter connector thereby facilitating the connection process.

As schematically illustrated in in certain embodiments the adapter connectors are coupled with one or more primary adapter cables . The primary adapter cables can comprise communication lines electrical lines and or branches thereof. As discussed below in some embodiments one end of one branch of a communication line is coupled with one pin of an adapter connector and one end of another branch of the communication line is coupled with one pin of another adapter connector . Similarly one end of one branch of an electrical line can be coupled with one pin of an adapter connector and one end of another branch of the electrical line can be coupled with one pin of another adapter connector .

In certain preferred embodiments the adapter comprises two adapter connectors . In some configurations each adapter connector comprises five or more pins . In preferred embodiments each adapter connector comprises the same configuration of pins . In the illustrated embodiment one end of one branch of an electrical line is coupled with the pin of a first adapter connector and one end of another branch of the electrical line is coupled with the pin of a second adapter connector . The electrical line thereby couples both pins . Similarly an electrical line couples both pins and another electrical line couples both pins . Accordingly the two adapter connectors are interchangeable with respect to the pins of each connector. As used herein the term interchangeable is a broad term used in its ordinary sense and includes without limitation the ability to use one connector in place of another connector.

In the illustrated embodiment one communication line couples the pin of the first adapter connector with the pin of the second adapter connector . Similarly a second communication line couples the pin of the first adapter connector with the pin of the second adapter connector . Accordingly the two adapter connectors are interchangeable with respect to the pins and

Advantageously the inverted configuration of the pins of the adapters facilitates the coupling of inputs and outputs of entertainment systems . In certain embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems having substantially similar entertainment system connectors . Each entertainment system connector has the same configuration of sheaths i.e. for each connector the sheath is coupled with the output of the entertainment system and the sheath is coupled with the input of the entertainment system see e.g. . Connection of the adapter with the two entertainment system connectors effectively couples the input of one entertainment system with the output of the other entertainment system and vice versa.

In some embodiments the adapter comprises adapter connectors each having seven pins . In certain of such embodiments the adapter connectors are interchangeable. Certain of such embodiments resemble the illustrated five pin adapter described above but comprise two additional communication lines running between the adapter connectors . In certain embodiments the seven pin adapter is used in a video system comprising two entertainment systems each having two inputs and two outputs . The additional communication lines can allow coupling of a second output of the first entertainment system with a second input of the second entertainment system and allow coupling of a second input of the first entertainment system with a second output of the second entertainment system .

The interchangeable nature of the adapter connectors can advantageously reduce the time required to install video systems as no time is lost identifying which adapter connector corresponds with the entertainment system connector of a given entertainment system . Furthermore interchangeable adapter connectors can reduce the risk of improper installation which in addition to increasing the overall installation time of a video system could ultimately damage the video system . Additionally the adapter connectors can allow interoperability among monitors of different makes and models by providing a standard interface for coupling with the input and output of any monitor .

The use of adapters to route signals from one entertainment system to another can also provide advantages over the use of a separate signal source selection unit such as a device that accepts signals from entertainment systems DVD players video game consoles and or other signal sources and can allow a user to select among the various signals received by the unit. Signal source selection units can be expensive. Furthermore such units can be costly to install especially in the aftermarket where vehicles may not be configured to house signal source selection units. Additionally some vehicles lack the required space for signal source selection units or the units take up more space than desired by vehicle owners. The installation of such units can also be time consuming. The use of adapters can reduce or eliminate each of these problems.

With continued reference to in certain embodiments the secondary adapter cable comprises an additional branch of the electrical line and an additional branch of the electrical line . In some embodiments the electrical lines and are coupled with the power source . The power source can be an alternating current or direct current source. In some embodiments the power source comprises the power source of a vehicle. In other embodiments the power source is dedicated to the video system . In some embodiments the electrical line is connected to the ground of the power source . In other embodiments the electrical line is connected to some other suitable ground.

As illustrated in in certain embodiments the electrical lines and are coupled with the noise suppressor . In some embodiments the noise suppressor comprises an input power lead an input ground lead an input accessory lead an output power lead and an output ground lead . In some embodiments the electrical line is coupled with the output power lead and the electrical line is coupled with the output ground lead . In some embodiments the each of the leads comprises a first interlocking connector and each of the lines comprises a second interlocking connector . The first and second interlocking connectors can be configured to engage one another by friction fit or by some other suitable method. In some embodiments the interlocking connectors are coupled via a fastener such as a clip or a screw.

In some embodiments the noise suppressor is coupled with the power source of a vehicle. The input power lead can be coupled with a power line of the vehicle the input ground lead can be grounded in a suitable manner and the input accessory lead can be coupled with the accessory power line of the vehicle. In many embodiments the noise suppressor filters and or reduces hum from the engine power line thereby providing a smoother waveform to the output power lead than is received from the input power lead .

The input accessory lead can serve a variety of functions. In one preferred embodiment the input accessory lead signals that a vehicle is being shut off tripping circuitry within the noise suppressor to reduce power output to the entertainment systems . In some embodiments the reduced power output causes one or more DVD players of the entertainment systems to store playback information to memory prior to shutting down. In some embodiments the input accessory lead comprises a fuse .

With reference again to in some embodiments the electrical line couples pins of the adapter . Accordingly in some preferred embodiments the electrical line provides a common ground among entertainment systems coupled to the adapter . In other embodiments each entertainment system is grounded separately.

In some embodiments one or more secondary adapter cables can comprise one or more branches of communication lines . The communication lines thus can be coupled at one end with a signal source such as for example a signal source selection unit a DVD player a television tuner etc. Branches of the one or more communication lines can be routed through the primary adapter cables and coupled with the adapter connectors . The entertainment systems can communicate with the communication lines thereby providing additional viewing and or listening options to users of the systems .

In certain embodiments the junction comprises a seal for joining the primary adapter cables and the secondary adapter cable . In some embodiments the seal comprises a molded dielectric material such as polyvinylchloride that is heat sealed around the primary cables and the secondary cable .

As illustrated in in some embodiments a retainer or retention device secures the entertainment system connector see e.g. and the adapter connector see e.g. in a coupled configuration. In certain embodiments the retention device is removable providing ready access to the connectors . In some embodiments the retention device comprises a first housing member and a second housing member that substantially surround the entertainment system connector and the adapter connector when the connectors are coupled. In some embodiments the retention device substantially encloses and or encapsulates the connectors . Accordingly in some instances the retention device can protect the connectors from for example dust accumulation humidity and or spilled liquids.

In some embodiments as illustrated an exterior surface of the retention device is generally cylindrical when the device is closed. The exterior surface can assume any shape although generally cylindrical configurations are preferred for use with circularly symmetric cables and or circularly symmetric connectors . In some embodiments the retention device comprises a single piece of material such as molded plastic. In other embodiments two or more pieces can be joined to form the device .

In certain embodiments the first and second housing members cooperate to form a cavity see e.g. . In many embodiments the cavity is sized and configured to accept the connectors . In some embodiments the cavity is sized and configured to only accept the connectors when the connectors are coupled with each other. For example the cavity can comprise an axial length that is substantially equal to the axial length of the connectors in a coupled configuration.

In preferred embodiments the retention device comprises one or more releasable locks or fasteners that allow the device to be selectively opened and closed. In the illustrated embodiment the device comprises two fasteners . Each fastener comprises a clip extension and a clip aperture that cooperate to allow the selective opening and closing of the device as more fully described below. In various embodiments the fastener can comprise a clip clasp clamp magnet hook hook and pile fabric or other suitable mechanism for maintaining the device in a closed state. In certain embodiments the fastener is integrally formed with the device and in other embodiments it is secured to or around the device .

In some arrangements the first housing member comprises one or more protrusions and the second housing member comprises one or more recesses . The recesses can be configured to accept the protrusions when the device is closed thereby encouraging alignment of the first and second housing members . In the illustrated embodiment the protrusions are substantially cylindrical with rounded edges. The recesses are also substantially cylindrical having a diameter slightly larger than that of the protrusions . The relative sizes of the protrusions and recesses can be altered to achieve a tighter or looser fit. A wide variety of arrangements are possible for the protrusions and recesses .

In the illustrated embodiment the protrusions and recesses are spaced away from the hinge . Additionally one protrusion and recess pair is located adjacent a proximal end of the device and another protrusion and recess pair is located adjacent a distal end of the device . As used herein the terms proximal and distal refer to spatial orientation with respect to the entertainment system . Other arrangements of protrusion and recess pairs are possible.

In some configurations the first housing member comprises one or more first extensions inward projections interference surfaces or ridges and the second housing member comprises one or more second extensions inward projections interference surfaces or ridges . In certain configurations the first and second ridges extend inward from a surface of the first and second housing members respectively. As illustrated in some configurations the first and second ridges extend inward along an entire length of an interior surface of the first and second housing members respectively. In certain configurations the first and second ridges are substantially C shaped as shown. In some embodiments the first and second ridges are substantially orthogonal to the surfaces of the housing members from which the ridges extend.

As illustrated in in some embodiments the cross section of the opening partially defined by the first and second ridges is noncircular. For example in certain cylindrical configurations the ridges and extend only along a partial length of a surface of the first and second housing members respectively. In certain of such configurations the opening defined by the ridges and when the device is closed has a measurement in one dimension equal to the diameter of the circular cross section of an interior surface of the closed device and a measurement in another dimension smaller than the cross sectional diameter of the interior surface . Various other opening configurations can be used although circular openings are preferred for use with circularly symmetric cables and circularly symmetric connectors.

With continued reference to in certain embodiments the clip extension comprises an arm portion and a tip portion . The tip portion can comprise a face and a ledge . In certain embodiments the face is angled such that when the device is being closed the clip aperture forces the tip portion inward toward the device . As a result the arm portion is bent giving rise to a restoring force that eventually seats the ledge under the clip aperture when the device is closed. A top surface of the ledge abuts a bottom surface of the clip aperture thereby retaining the device in a closed position. To open the device the tip portion is depressed toward the device until the top surface of the ledge no longer contacts the bottom surface of the clip aperture . In some instances an upward force is applied to the tip portion to encourage it through the clip aperture . In other instances the device is biased toward opening such that no upward force need be applied to the tip portion to encourage it through the clip aperture .

In certain embodiments the adapter connector comprises one or more extensions projections or interference surfaces that extend outward from a center of the connector . In the illustrated embodiment the adapter connector comprises two extensions . The extensions comprise distal and proximal faces respectively of the adapter connector . Each extension extends substantially perpendicularly from an axial center of the connector . In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises one or more extensions that extend outward from a center of the connector . In the illustrated embodiment each extension and extends substantially perpendicularly from an axial center of the connector .

In some embodiments the opening formed by the ridges and when the device is closed is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension . In certain of such embodiments the opening formed by the ridges and is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension and or the opening formed by the ridges and is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension . In such configurations the ridges and can operate to prevent the separation of the coupled connectors . For example in certain embodiments as axial forces are applied to the cables in a manner that would separate the connectors the extension contacts one or more of the ridges and . Similarly the extension contacts one or more of the ridges and . Accordingly the ridges and cooperate with the extensions and to prevent the connectors from moving away from each other e.g. interference surfaces cooperate to prevent axial movement of the connectors relative to each other. In some embodiments additional interference surfaces cooperate with each other to prevent relative movement between the connectors . For example in some embodiments the ridges and cooperate with the extension to prevent the connector from moving axially with respect to the connector . In further embodiments one or more of the openings through which the cables can extend are smaller than the cables which further serves to prevent separation of the connectors .

In some embodiments the retention device comprises one or more surfaces or interference surfaces configured to prevent the connectors from moving laterally relative to each other. In the illustrated embodiment the device comprises interior surfaces and . In some embodiments the interior surfaces comprise one substantially continuous surface when the device is closed. In some embodiments the interior surfaces contact an exterior surface of the connector when the device is closed . In certain of such embodiments the interior surfaces cooperate with the exterior surface to substantially prevent the connector from moving in a transverse or lateral direction relative to the connector . For the illustrated case of a circularly symmetrical connector the transverse or lateral direction can be for example any radial direction. In certain embodiments contact between the interior surfaces and the exterior surface along an axial length of the connector maintains a longitudinal axis of the connector aligned with a longitudinal axis of the device and prevents radial movement of the connector relative to the connector . Similarly in some embodiments contact between interior surfaces and of the device and exterior surfaces of portions of the connector respectively maintains a longitudinal axis of the connector aligned with a longitudinal axis of the device and prevents radial movement of the connector relative to the connector .

In further embodiments the retention device can comprise interference surfaces such as the surfaces that prevent rotational movement of the connectors relative to each other such as by friction as described below . In many embodiments some interference surfaces of the device are configured to prevent or inhibit multiple forms of relative movement between the connectors .

In some embodiments an interior surface of the retention device is smaller than an exterior surface of one or more of the connectors . In such embodiments friction can arise between one or more of the connectors and the device when the device is closed thereby helping to secure or securing the connectors in a coupled configuration. In certain of such embodiments the interior surface of the device is coated with a high friction material is roughened or is etched thereby increasing the friction. Furthermore in such embodiments the retention device can be placed in tension when the device is closed thereby creating a bias towards being in an open configuration. As discussed above such a bias can aid in opening the device when the clip configuration of the illustrated embodiment is employed.

The retention device can provide various advantages over conventional methods such as the use of electrical tape for securing connectors to one another. As discussed above the retention device can apply normal and frictional forces to the connectors . These forces can often be stronger than the forces supplied by electrical tape thereby ensuring a more reliable coupling of the connectors. The use of a retention device also facilitates replacement of an entertainment system if needed. Whereas removing electrical tape can be time consuming removal of the retention device is relatively quick.

In some embodiments a headrest mounted entertainment system includes a screen structure that can be rotated relative to the headrest in which it is mounted. In certain of such embodiments the screen structure includes both a viewing screen and a media reader such as for example a DVD player. The ability to rotate the screen structure in a system of this variety can provide various advantages such as the selection of a desired viewing angle of the screen and or the ability to load a storage device into the media reader.

However in some instances inclusion of a media reader as a part of the screen structure increases the overall mass of the structure. The increased mass can yield higher stresses on certain portions of the screen structure in the event of a collision which can potentially cause the structure to rotate outward from the headrest in an undesirable manner and or separate from the headrest and move through the passenger compartment of a vehicle. For example in some instances the increased mass of the screen structure can produce higher stresses on hinge members that connect the structure with the headrest potentially causing the structure to break free from the hinge members. Once freed from the hinge members the screen structure could move unrestrained through the vehicle.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein advantageously reduce or eliminate at least the foregoing problems. Although some embodiments are described in the context of screen structures that include media readers the disclosed features can be employed beneficially in a variety of contexts including without limitation screen structures that do not include media readers. Accordingly the following discussion should not be construed as being limited to the disclosed embodiments which are presented herein by way of illustration.

In certain embodiments the entertainment system includes a headrest which can resemble the vehicle headrest described above. In some embodiments the headrest includes one or more seat posts or headrest posts such as the posts described above. As further discussed below the posts can form a portion of a mounting structure framework or mounting assembly also shown in which can be configured to provide structure to the entertainment system . As discussed below components of the entertainment system can be attached to the mounting structure in relatively fixed engagement.

In certain embodiments the posts are sized and shaped so as to be slidably received in a seat back which can be mounted in a vehicle. In some embodiments the posts permit a portion of the headrest against which a passenger can rest his or her head to be selectively spaced from the seatback . For example in some embodiments the posts include notches or indentations that interact with detents in the seatback to selectively secure the headrest in a variety of positions.

In some embodiments the headrest includes one or more cushions pillows or pads such as the pad described above. The pads can be formed in any suitable manner such as any of the methods described above. In some embodiments a plurality of pads are fitted to each other or otherwise joined to form a larger pad structure or pad assembly. For example in the illustrated embodiments two pads are fitted together to form a pad assembly.

In some embodiments the one or more pads define one or more openings such as the openings . The openings can be in one or more side surfaces see also of the headrest or can be located in other surfaces of the headrest . The one or more openings can permit airflow therethrough for purposes of cooling components of the entertainment system . In some embodiments the pad includes a recessed portion that can at least partially define a cavity . In some embodiments the cavity is sized and shaped to receive one or more two or more or three or more finger tips of a user. In some embodiments the cavity has a width between about 0.5 inches and about 3.0 inches between about 0.8 inches and about 2.5 inches between about 1.0 inches and about 2.0 inches or between about 1.0 inches and about 1.5 inches. The one or more openings and the cavity are described further below.

In some embodiments the headrest defines a front surface or face and a rear or back face . In many embodiments the headrest is configured to be mounted in a vehicle such that the front face substantially faces a direction of forward travel of the vehicle and the back face substantially faces a direction of rearward travel of the vehicle. Accordingly in some embodiments the front face can be positioned to abut a back surface of a head of a passenger. The back face of the headrest can be directed toward a passenger compartment of the vehicle and can be viewable by passengers seated rearward of the seatback with which the headrest is coupled. By way of convenience and not limitation the terms front forward and the like are generally used hereafter to describe the direction of forward travel and the terms back rear and the like are generally used to describe the direction of rearward travel when the entertainment system or components thereof are mounted in a vehicle.

With continued reference to in certain embodiments the entertainment system includes an outer casing case receptacle bin or shell also shown in e.g. an inner casing frame support structure or housing also shown in e.g. and a monitor structure display device screen structure or screen assembly also shown in e.g. . As further discussed below in some embodiments the shell and or the housing can be coupled in substantially fixed engagement with the mounting assembly . In further embodiments the screen assembly is pivotally coupled with the housing such that the screen assembly can rotate relative to the housing and hence relative to the headrest .

In some embodiments a covering not shown is included over the one or more pads . The covering can comprise any suitable material such as for example fabric or leather. In certain embodiments a portion of the covering is included between the shell and the housing . Accordingly in some embodiments the shell is substantially hidden from view by the covering in an assembled entertainment system . In some embodiments the covering includes one or more aperture covers see configured to cover the one or more openings . As described above the aperture covers can include holes or can otherwise be configured to permit the passage of air therethrough.

In some embodiments the mounting plate includes a substantially planar portion that defines a relatively flat surface. In some embodiments the planar portion further defines one or more apertures or openings that can reduce material costs of producing the mounting plate and or the weight of the mounting plate without significantly affecting the structural integrity of the mounting plate .

In some embodiments the mounting plate includes one or more reinforcing members such as the reinforcing members described above. The reinforcing members can include substantially elongated channels that are raised or alternatively recessed relative to the planar portion . In some arrangements the mounting plate includes one or more flanges that extend at an angle e.g. substantially perpendicular to the planar portion . The flanges can provide the mounting plate with strength and can inhibit bending twisting or other deformations of the plate . In some embodiments the flanges extend forward relative to the rear face of the substantially planar portion . Accordingly in some embodiments the flanges do not pose an obstacle to mounting the shell to the mounting plate .

The mounting plate can include one or more mounting features or protrusions with which the shell and or other components of the entertainment system can be coupled as further described below. In some embodiments the protrusions extend rearward from the substantially planar portion and can be accepted within openings defined by the shell . Accordingly in some embodiments the protrusions can inhibit rotation of the shell about an axis perpendicular to the planar portion . In some embodiments the mounting plate includes a plurality of protrusions to which the shell is secured and includes one or more additional protrusions to which a motion limiting device deployment controller or retaining harness see e.g. is secured as further described below. In some embodiments the protrusions may be tapped. Other arrangements for the protrusions or mounting features are also possible.

The mounting assembly e.g. the mounting plate the posts and or the bar in some embodiments can comprise any suitable material for providing the headrest with structure and strength. In some embodiments the mounting assembly comprises a metal such as for example steel. Other materials are also possible.

With reference to in certain embodiments the shell includes a lower portion and an upper portion . The terms upper lower and similar terms denoting spatial relationships are generally used in this Detailed Description for convenience in describing the embodiments depicted in the figures. Such terms should not be construed as limiting possible arrangements of the shell or of other components of the entertainment system identified thereby unless so specified.

In some embodiments the lower portion is substantially shaped as a parallelepiped which in further embodiments can include rounded edges and or corners. The lower portion can include a base wall and one or more side walls or sidewalls . In some embodiments the lower portion includes four separate sidewalls at four sides of the lower portion . In some embodiments three sidewalls extend from the base wall and in further embodiments can extend substantially perpendicular with respect to the base wall . The sidewalls can include rounded portions that connect with the base wall . In some embodiments a fourth sidewall is spaced from a substantial portion of the base wall . In some embodiments the upper portion extends from the fourth sidewall

The upper portion can also be shaped as a parallelepiped which can include rounded edges and or corners. The upper portion can include a back wall and one or more sidewalls . In some embodiments the one or more sidewalls are substantially perpendicular to the back wall . In further embodiments the back wall of the upper portion and the base wall of the lower portion are substantially parallel. Other shapes and configurations of the shell are also possible.

In some embodiments the shell defines a cavity sized to receive at least a portion of the housing . In some embodiments the upper and lower extents of the cavity are defined by the upper and lower portions of the shell . The shell can define an aperture port opening or window . In some embodiments the window is defined by and or extends through the base wall of the lower portion . The window can further be defined by one or more sidewalls of the upper portion . In some embodiments the window is sized to permit the passage therethrough of a portion of the screen assembly as the screen assembly is rotated as further discussed below.

In certain embodiments the shell includes one or more mounting features or projections . In some embodiments the projections extend from a forward facing surface of the base wall . Each projection can define an opening orifice channel or port that can extend through the base wall . In some embodiments each projection defines a port sufficiently large to receive a corresponding protrusion of the mounting plate . In some embodiments the ports are sized such that the protrusions fit snugly within the projections . Accordingly in some arrangements the projections and protrusions can cooperate to prevent rotation of the shell relative to the mounting plate about an axis substantially perpendicular to the mounting plate .

In some embodiments fasteners coupling devices or mounting hardware is advanced through the ports into the protrusions to attach the shell to the mounting plate . As used herein the term mounting hardware is a broad term used in its ordinary sense and includes without limitation any suitable combination of fasteners screws bolts nuts washers pins rivets or the like. Mounting hardware or fasteners discussed herein can be formed of any suitable material and in some embodiments are substantially rigid and stress resistant. For example any fastener discussed herein can be formed of metal. In some embodiments mounting hardware is advanced through the ports into the protrusions to secure a portion of the retaining harness to the mounting plate as further described below. Mounting hardware can also be advanced through the ports into the protrusions to attach both the housing and the shell to the mounting plate .

The shell can define one or more protrusions . The protrusions can each define an opening for receiving mounting hardware. In some embodiments the openings extend through only a portion of the protrusions and do not extend through the entirety thereof. Mounting hardware can be advanced into the protrusions to attach the housing to the shell .

In some embodiments the shell defines one or more recesses see each configured to receive a portion of the housing . The recesses can help prevent rotation of the housing relative to the shell about an axis substantially perpendicular to the base wall .

In some embodiments the shell defines an opening through which one or more cables see can pass. In some embodiments the one or more cables comprise one or more of the cable the communication lines and or the electrical lines described above with respect to e.g. . Other arrangements are also possible. The cable can be of any suitable variety and can be configured to transmit carry or otherwise deliver power signals or the like to or from the screen assembly . In various embodiments one or more of the cables are configured to transmit electrical signals optical signals and or other suitable signals. The one or more cables are further discussed below.

With reference to the shell can include a channel for receiving the one or more cables . In some embodiments the channel is recessed relative to a back surface of the base wall and thus provides sufficient clearance for the one or more cables to pass between the shell and the housing in an assembled entertainment system . In some embodiments the one or more cables are mounted to the channel . The channel can include one or more openings for receiving mounting hardware to secure the one or more cables within the channel .

With reference again to in some embodiments the shell defines one or more vents or openings through which air can be channeled. In further embodiments two openings are defined by opposite sidewalls of the lower portion . The openings can permit cooling of the entertainment system in a manner such as described above with respect to the entertainment system .

In some embodiments the shell includes one or more extensions see to which upholstery can be mounted e.g. via stapling . The extensions can project forward from the back wall of the upper portion in some arrangements.

In certain embodiments a lower sidewall defines a recess . As further discussed below the recess can provide space for a flange defined by the housing which can be beneficial in some embodiments of a locking mechanism.

The shell can be formed of any suitable material. In preferred embodiments the shell comprises a substantially rigid material capable of providing a structural core about which the pads can be arranged or formed and or to which a covering of the headrest can be attached. In some embodiments the shell comprises plastic. In further embodiments the shell comprises a plastic or a composite plastic that is capable of providing rigid support yet is relatively flexible or pliable. In some embodiments the plastic can be substantially resistant to shattering shearing tearing or otherwise permanently deforming in the event of a vehicle collision yet in the unlikely event that such deformations should occur the plastic can deform in a manner that results in few if any sharp or jagged edges. Accordingly in the event that a shell does shear or tear in a collision the plastic can produce one or more edges that are relatively unlikely to cut a passenger.

In some embodiments the shell comprises a composite plastic that includes acrylonitrile butadiene styrene plastic ABS plastic and polycarbonate plastic PC plastic . In various embodiments the composite plastic comprises between about 40 percent and about 90 percent ABS plastic and between about 10 percent and about 60 percent PC plastic between about 50 percent and about 80 percent ABS plastic and between about 20 percent and about 50 percent PC plastic between about 60 percent and about 80 percent ABS plastic and between about 20 percent and about 40 percent ABS plastic or between about 65 percent and about 75 percent ABS plastic and about 25 percent and about 35 percent PC plastic. In further embodiments the composite plastic comprises no less than about 40 percent about 50 percent about 60 percent about 70 percent or about 80 percent ABS plastic and comprises no more than about 60 percent about 50 percent about 40 percent about 30 percent or about 20 percent PC plastic. In some embodiments the composite plastic comprises about 70 percent ABS plastic and about 30 percent PC plastic. Other combinations of ABS and PC plastic are possible. Furthermore other plastics may also be included and or may replace one or more of the ABS and PC plastic. Additives may also be included with the composite plastic. Still further compositions are possible.

With reference to in certain embodiments the housing is sized and shaped to be received within the cavity defined by the shell . The housing can include a lower portion and an upper portion . In some embodiments the lower portion is sized and shaped to be received within the lower portion of the shell and the upper portion is sized and shaped to be received within the upper portion of the shell .

In some embodiments the lower portion of the housing includes a base foundation backing mounting portion or base wall and one or more borders sides edges or sidewalls . In some embodiments the lower portion includes four separate sidewalls at four sides of the lower portion . In some embodiments three sidewalls extend from the base wall . In some embodiments a fourth sidewall is spaced from a substantial portion of the base wall . In some embodiments the upper portion extends from the fourth sidewall

In some embodiments one or more of the sidewalls are angled with respect to the base wall . In certain arrangements two of the sidewalls are substantially planar and can extend from the base wall at an angle of between about 0 degrees and about 15 degrees relative to a line perpendicular to a plane defined by the base wall . In some embodiments a third sidewall includes one or more faces or portions that are angled relative to a surface normal of the base wall by different amounts. In some embodiments the angle defined by one or more of the portions is between about 0 degrees and about 30 degrees. Other arrangements are also possible.

The upper portion of the housing can be shaped substantially as a parallelepiped which can include rounded edges and or corners. The upper portion can include a back wall and one or more sidewalls . In some embodiments the one or more sidewalls are substantially perpendicular to the back wall . In some embodiments the back wall defines a series of openings configured to receive the extensions of the shell . The back wall of the upper portion and the base wall of the lower portion can be substantially parallel in some arrangements. Other shapes and configurations of the housing are also possible.

In some embodiments the housing defines a cavity sized to receive at least a portion of the screen assembly . In some embodiments the upper and lower extents of the cavity are defined by the upper and lower portions of the housing . The housing can define an aperture port opening or window . In some embodiments the window is defined by and or extends through the base wall of the lower portion . The window can further be defined by one or more sidewalls of the upper portion . In some embodiments the window is sized to permit the passage therethrough of a portion of the screen assembly as the screen assembly is rotated as further discussed below.

In certain embodiments the housing includes one or more mounting features or projections . In some embodiments the projections extend from a forward facing surface of the base wall . As described above in some embodiments at least a portion of one or more of the projections is sized and shaped to fit snugly within one or more of the recesses defined by the shell . Interaction of the projections and the recesses can help to prevent rotation of the housing relative to the shell about an axis substantially perpendicular to the base wall

Each projection can define an opening orifice channel or port that can extend through the base wall . In some embodiments mounting hardware is advanced through the ports into the ports of the shell to secure the housing to the shell . In some embodiments mounting hardware is advanced through the ports through the ports of the shell and into the protrusions of the mounting plate to secure the housing and the shell to each other and to the mounting plate .

In some embodiments the housing defines one or more vents or openings through which air can be channeled. In further embodiments two openings are defined by opposite side walls of the lower portion . The openings can be aligned with and or can cooperate with the openings of the shell and the openings of the headrest to permit cooling of the entertainment system as further described below.

In some embodiments the housing defines one or more apertures paths ports openings or passageways . The passageways can be substantially elongate and in some embodiments extend from the base wall to a rear portion of the third or lower sidewall . The passageways can extend in a direction substantially perpendicular to a plane defined by the base wall . In some embodiments the passageways are sufficiently wide to permit the passage therethrough of at least a portion of a tool or device that is configured to aid in the coupling or decoupling of mounting hardware with the shell and or the mounting plate such as for example the stem or tip of a screwdriver. In some embodiments a lower end of each passageway is curved or rounded and can thus facilitate rotation of the device within the passageway . The lower ends of the passageways can further help to align the device with the ports of the shell and can thus aid in the attachment to and or removal from the mounting plate of the retaining harness as further described below.

In certain embodiments the base wall defines one or more depressions recesses receptacles retainers or channels see configured to receive at least a portion of the retaining harness when the screen assembly is in a stowed configuration within the housing . In some embodiments the channels are substantially elongated and extend upward from the passageways . The channels can extend between the passageways and the window . In some embodiments the channels are recessed relative to a rearward facing surface of the base wall and can be sufficiently wide and deep to accept at least a portion of the retaining harness therein such that the retaining harness does not interfere with the closing of screen assembly . For example in some embodiments the channels provide sufficient clearance for the harness such that the screen assembly can transition from a deployed orientation in which at least a portion of the screen assembly is outside of the cavity to a stowed orientation in which substantially all of the screen assembly is within the cavity .

In some embodiments the housing defines an abutment surface stop or ridge . The ridge can interfere with a portion of the screen assembly as the screen assembly is rotated into the cavity to prevent further rotation of the screen assembly.

With continued reference to in some embodiments the housing defines a catch locking member or lock portion . The lock portion can be defined by the lower sidewall of the housing . In some embodiments the lock portion includes one or more recesses holes or openings . In some embodiments the lock portion includes two elongated openings that are substantially parallel to each other. The openings can extend in a direction substantially perpendicular to a plane defined by the base wall . Other arrangements are also possible. For example in some embodiments the lock portion comprises a single opening . In other embodiments the lock portion includes more than one opening or more than two openings . In some embodiments the openings comprise depressions indentations or recesses that extend downward from an inner surface of the lower sidewall

In certain embodiments the housing defines a rim that extends about a rearward periphery of the sidewalls . The rim can substantially define a plane that constitutes a rearward spatial extent of the cavity . In some embodiments a portion of the rim near the lock portion is slightly enlarged and is recessed relative to the remainder of the rim . The rim can define a flange that extends downward from the lower sidewall . In some embodiments the flange is substantially rounded or shaped as a partial bowl and thus can define a concavity that extends forward from the rim . As further discussed below the flange can aid in opening the screen assembly e.g. when transitioning the screen assembly from a closed configuration to a deployed configuration . In some embodiments of an assembled entertainment system the recess defined by the lower sidewall of the shell provides sufficient space for the flange to extend downward.

In some embodiments the housing defines one or more hinge portions hinge elements channels retainers or receptacles configured to aid in coupling the screen assembly with the housing . In some embodiments the receptacles are substantially elongate and extend in a direction substantially perpendicular to a plane defined by the base wall . Each receptacle can include an inner wall and an outer wall that can be substantially parallel to each other. The inner and outer walls can cooperate to form a relatively small cavity for receiving a portion of the screen assembly . In some embodiments the inner wall defines a slot and the outer wall defines a slot . The slots can overlap in such a manner as to form an opening through which a fastening member such as a screw can be advanced. In certain instances defining the opening in this manner provides the receptacles with a strong fastening point particularly suited to forward directed and rearward directed forces typical in the context of vehicular travel as the inner and outer walls serve to resist forward and rearward movement within the slots respectively.

In some embodiments the receptacles are formed in two sidewalls of the housing . In some embodiments the receptacles are at or adjacent a top edge of the housing e.g. near the upper sidewall and in other embodiments are at or adjacent a bottom edge of the housing e.g. near the lower sidewall .

The housing can be formed of any suitable material. In preferred embodiments the housing comprises a substantially rigid material capable of providing the screen assembly with structural support and or protection from bumps and shocks. In some embodiments the housing comprises plastic. In further embodiments the housing comprises a composite plastic such as any of the varieties described above with respect to the shell .

With reference to in certain embodiments the screen assembly is sized and shaped to be received within the cavity defined by the housing . In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a display monitor or viewing screen . The viewing screen can be of any suitable variety including those listed above with respect to the monitor . In some embodiments the viewing screen defines a substantially planar viewing surface.

In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a signal generating device media player or media reader . The media reader can be configured to receive a non volatile storage medium and to generate signals based on information stored on the storage medium. For example in some embodiments the media reader comprises a DVD player and can be configured to receive one or more DVDs in order to produce audio and or video signals therefrom. In some embodiments the media reader delivers video signals to the viewing screen which displays the signals in a visually perceivable form. Other arrangements for delivering signals to the viewing screen are also possible including any suitable arrangement described above.

In some embodiments the screen assembly includes one or more control buttons . The control buttons can be selectively actuated to affect operation of the viewing screen and or the media reader . In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a communication panel . The communication panel can include and or cover one or more lights e.g. LEDs that can communicate an operational state of the screen assembly to a user. The communication panel can further include and or cover a transceiver transmitter or receiver configured to communicate signals to and or receive signals from an auxiliary device. For example in some embodiments the panel covers an infrared transmitter that relays audio information to a personal headset.

With reference to in some embodiments the screen assembly includes an outer housing a shell or a casing . In further embodiments the casing includes a rear cover and a front cover . In certain embodiments the rear cover is substantially rectangular and can include rounded corners and or edges. In some embodiments a lower edge of the rear cover defines a depression or indentation described further below. The rear cover can substantially frame the viewing screen the buttons and or the communication panel .

In certain embodiments the front cover is shaped substantially as a parallelepiped. The front cover can include a substantially planar base wall and one or more sidewalls that are oriented approximately perpendicularly with respect to the base wall . In some embodiments a lower sidewall of the cover includes an angled portion that transitions between the base wall and a portion of the lower sidewall that is substantially perpendicular to the base wall . In some embodiments an abutment surface stop or ridge extends downwardly from the lower sidewall . As discussed above the ridge can be configured to interfere with the ridge of the housing to limit rotation of the screen assembly into the cavity of the housing . The lower sidewall can define an opening through which a storage device or storage medium e.g. a DVD can be inserted or removed from the media reader . In some embodiments an eject button extends through the lower sidewall

In some embodiments the lower sidewall includes a lock portion latch member detent or arm which in further embodiments is integrally formed with the front cover . In some embodiments the arm extends rearward from the ridge and thus can include a rearward projecting portion . In some embodiments the arm extends rearward of the rear cover as shown in . In some embodiments one or more protrusions latch devices catches or projections extend downward from the rearward projecting portion of the arm . As discussed below in some embodiments the projections can cooperate with the openings of the lock portion to secure the screen assembly in a stowed configuration.

The arm can include a manual interface or finger catch that extends downward at the end of the portion . In some embodiments the finger catch includes rounded edges and can further have a curved or rounded end. In various embodiments the finger catch can be sufficiently wide to permit one or more two or more or three or more finger tips of a user to be placed thereon. In various embodiments the width of the finger catch is between about 0.5 and about 2.0 inches or between about 0.75 and about 1.5 inches.

In some embodiments the finger catch is moved or rotated upward to actuate the arm as further described below. The indentation defined by the rear cover thus can provide the arm with a relatively larger range of motion. In some embodiments the arm comprises a resilient material capable of undergoing repeated relatively small displacements without being permanently deformed. In various embodiments the arm and or the front cover comprises plastic. In further embodiments the plastic is composite plastic such as any of the composite plastics described above with respect to the shell . In some embodiments the rear cover comprises the same material as the front cover .

In some embodiments the front cover defines one or more venting structures which can include a plurality of elongated slots or openings. One or more venting structures can be included in the base wall . In some embodiments a first venting structure is located in a first sidewall and a second venting structure is located in a second sidewall . The first and second venting structures can be substantially aligned with each other so as to permit air to flow readily from the first venting structure to the second venting structure or vice versa . In some embodiments a fan is positioned adjacent the first venting structure

In some embodiments the first and second venting structures are aligned with and or can cooperate with the openings of the housing the openings of the shell and the openings of the headrest to permit cooling of the entertainment system . For example in some embodiments relatively cool air from an environment surrounding the headrest is drawn through a first set of openings and through the first venting structure into the screen assembly via the fan and heated air is forced from the screen assembly through the second venting structure and through a second set of openings into the environment surrounding the headrest .

As discussed above in some embodiments one or more cables are connected with the screen assembly . In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a grommet configured to snugly retain the one or more cables from movement into or out of an opening in the front cover . In some embodiments the one or more cables can supply the fan the viewing screen and or the media reader with power can relay electrical signals to the viewing screen and or the media reader and or can relay electrical signals from the media reader . Other functions of the one or more cables are also possible.

In some embodiments the screen assembly includes a mounting structure or frame . In preferred embodiments the frame comprises a high strength material resistant to tearing or shearing. In some embodiments the frame comprises a metal or metal alloy such as for example steel. As further discussed below various components of the screen assembly can be coupled with the frame . In some embodiments a cap or cover can be coupled with the frame to substantially cover an opening in the frame . The cover can protect connection wires or ribbons or other relatively sensitive portions of the electrical circuitry of the screen assembly from snagging or catching on the pads of the headrest as the screen assembly is rotated from a stowed configuration to a deployed configuration see e.g. . In some embodiments the cover comprises plastic.

In certain embodiments the screen assembly includes one or more hinge elements hinge portions or hinges that are configured to pivotally mount the screen assembly to the housing . The hinges can extend through an opening not shown defined by the front and rear covers and can be configured to rotate within the opening. In some embodiments the hinges include first hinge portions slabs or plates that can be substantially rectangular. In some embodiments the plates are sized and dimensioned to be received within the receptacles of the housing . In some embodiments a fastener is inserted through an opening defined by a plate and through an opening defined by a receptacle to secure the hinge to the housing . In some embodiments the fastener comprises a metal screw. The hinge can further be coupled with the frame as described below.

The hinges can define an axis of rotation about which the screen assembly can rotate. In various embodiments the axis is substantially within or is substantially parallel to a plane defined by the viewing screen . In some embodiments the axis is proximate adjacent at or near an upper edge of the screen assembly such as a top wall of the rear cover . In further embodiments the axis is proximate adjacent at or near a rear surface of the screen assembly such as a rear face of the rear cover . Accordingly in some embodiments the axis is at a top rear corner of the screen assembly which can permit a large portion of the screen assembly to move away from the cavity defined by the housing when the screen assembly is pivoted from a stowed position to a deployed position.

With reference to in certain embodiments the retaining harness is configured to be coupled at one end with the screen assembly and at another end to the mounting plate . In some embodiments the retaining harness comprises two separate straps lines wires or cords . The cords can be formed of any suitable material and preferably are sufficiently strong and sufficiently resistant to high impulsive forces to be able to withstand movement of the screen assembly away from the mounting plate in the event of a collision. In various embodiments the cords comprise metal nylon or some other suitable material. For example in some embodiments the cords are reinforced with steel.

In some embodiments one or more ends of the cords are secured to one or more eyelets which can comprise metal. The eyelets can be attached to the cords in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments an end of a cord is advanced through an opening in an eyelet and doubled back. The end of the cord can be secured to the remainder of the cord via any suitable fastener such as a crimp sleeve. In other embodiments the eyelets are integrally formed with the cords . In still other embodiments the retaining harness does not include eyelets .

In some embodiments a first eyelet at a first end of a cord is secured to the screen assembly and a second eyelet at a second end of the cord is secured to the mounting frame . For example in some embodiments a fastener e.g. a metal screw is advanced through the first eyelet through the base wall of the screen assembly and is secured to the frame see . The second eyelet can be secured to the mounting frame via another fastener in a manner such as described above. For example the fastener can be advanced through the eyelet through one of the ports of the shell and into one of the protrusions of the mounting plate see .

In some embodiments the base wall defines one or more rotation limiting features or ridges . In some embodiments the ridges include two substantially linear portions connected by a rounded portion. The linear portions can be substantially parallel to each other. In some embodiments an outer perimeter of an eyelet is complementary to an inner perimeter of a ridge such that the eyelet is substantially prevented from rotating about an axis that is substantially perpendicular to the base wall when the eyelet is received within the ridge . Other configurations are also possible for the rotation limiting features .

With reference to in certain embodiments the frame comprises a plurality of substantially planar surfaces. The frame can include one or more relatively thin plates which may be formed from a unitary piece of material e.g. sheet metal in some configurations. In certain embodiments the frame defines a base wall and one or more sidewalls . The sidewalls can extend substantially perpendicular to the base wall . In some embodiments the base wall defines one or more protrusions that define openings for receiving fasteners e.g. fasteners . In some embodiments the protrusions are tapped. The protrusions thus can be configured to couple the frame with the retaining harness . In some embodiments the protrusions space the frame from the front cover which can aid in maintaining cooling air flow within the casing . In some embodiments one of the sidewalls defines a mounting area for receiving the fan .

In some embodiments the frame defines one or more mounting brackets with which one or more components of the screen assembly can be coupled. In some embodiments the mounting brackets are integrally formed with the frame . In other embodiments one or more of the mounting brackets comprise pieces separate from the frame that can be securely fastened to the frame via any suitable method such as via welding or mounting hardware.

With reference to in some embodiments many or all components of the screen assembly are secured to the frame . In some embodiments the fan is secured to the mounting area via fasteners or any other suitable method. The viewing screen the media reader and or a printed circuit board each can be secured to the frame . In some embodiments the viewing screen the media reader and or the printed circuit board are secured to the frame such that each set of adjacent components defines an air passageway see also which can help to maintain a desirable level of cooling within the outer casing of the screen assembly .

In some embodiments a surface area of the frame is relatively large as compared with that of the other components of the screen assembly . For example in some embodiments the frame covers a substantial portion of the media reader . In various embodiments an external or outer surface area i.e. the combined surface areas of one side of the base wall and of one side of each sidewall of the frame is no less than about or the size of an outer surface area of the media reader . In other embodiments a maximum cross sectional area of the frame is no less than about 0.25 0.33 0.50 0.66 0.75 1.25 or 1.33 times the size of a viewable surface area of the viewing screen in the assembled screen assembly .

With reference to in certain embodiments a hinge includes the plate described above. The plate can be coupled with second hinge portion mount or projection . In some embodiments the projection and the plate are oriented at approximately 90 degrees relative to each other although other orientations are also possible. In some embodiments the plate and the projection are configured to rotate relative to one another. In further embodiments a disk shaped element is included between the plate and the projection to facilitate the rotation. The hinge can be self tensioning and in some embodiments comprises a pin configured to substantially maintain a constant distance between the plate and the projection . In some embodiments the pin defines the axis of rotation of the hinge . Some or all of the components of the hinge can comprise a high strength material. In some embodiments the hinge comprises metal.

The plate of the hinge can be secured to the frame in the manner described above e.g. via the fastener . Similarly a fastener e.g. a metal screw can be advanced through the projection into a mounting bracket of the frame in order to secure the hinge to the screen assembly. In further embodiments an additional fastener can be advanced through the projection to directly couple the fastener with the rear cover of the casing .

In certain advantageous embodiments coupling metallic hinges with a metal frame via metallic fasteners can effectively provide a substantially solid metallic piece that can act and react as a unified whole thereby reducing stresses on the contact points among the hinges and the screen assembly . For example in the event of a high speed collision such as for example a collision in which a first vehicle in which the entertainment system is mounted is at rest and a second vehicle rear ends the first vehicle the screen assembly if unrestrained could rotate out of the headrest due to inertia and could forcefully collide with a top edge of the housing . Such a collision could result in powerful impulse forces on the hinges . However a secure connection among metallic components can result in distribution or transfer of the impulsive forces among the components. In certain circumstances spreading of impulsive forces in this manner can reduce the likelihood that stress points or weak points will develop such as at the hinge frame interface and result in separation of the screen assembly from the housing .

In the illustrated embodiment the screen assembly is in a closed or stowed configuration. In some embodiments the screen assembly is substantially fixed relative to the housing when in the stowed configuration as further discussed below. In some embodiments substantially all of the screen assembly is within the cavity defined by the housing when in the stowed orientation. In further embodiments all or substantially all of the screen assembly is within the headrest . For example in the illustrated embodiment all of the screen assembly except for a small portion of the arm is within the headrest . In some embodiments a rear surface of the screen assembly e.g. a rear face of the rear cover is substantially flush with the rear surface of the headrest . In other embodiments the rear surface of the screen assembly is recessed relative to the rear surface of the headrest. In some embodiments the viewing screen is recessed relative to the rear surface of the headrest. Accordingly in various embodiments the entertainment system can define a low profile. Such a low profile system can be desirable in the context of the passenger compartment of a vehicle where the system can provide passengers with a larger and relatively unencumbered space in which to move. Other arrangements are also possible.

In some embodiments the viewing screen is substantially parallel to the base wall of the housing when the screen assembly is in the stowed configuration. In some embodiments the base wall of the screen assembly is substantially parallel to the base wall of the housing when the screen assembly is in the stowed configuration.

With reference to in certain embodiments the arm of the screen assembly is in a natural relaxed or resting state when the screen assembly is in the stowed configuration. In certain embodiments the arm extends in a first direction when in the resting state. In the illustrated embodiment the arm extends downward or away from a bottom surface of the rear cover when in the resting state.

In certain embodiments the projections of the arm cooperate with the openings of the lock portion to maintain the screen assembly in the stowed orientation when the arm is in the resting state. The projections can be received within the openings to lock the screen assembly relative to the housing . In some embodiments a projection defines a first abutment or interference surface and an opening defines a second abutment or interference surface . In some embodiments the first and second surfaces are substantially planar. In the illustrated embodiment the first and second surface are each oriented substantially vertically such that contact between the first and second surfaces prevents the first and second surfaces from moving substantially horizontally with respect to each other in a given direction e.g. in a direction that would move a lower edge of the screen assembly away from the housing in the illustrated embodiment .

In some embodiments interference between the first and second surfaces prevents the screen assembly from rotating away from the stowed orientation. For example in some embodiments interaction between the first and second surface can be sufficiently strong to counteract large forces applied in a direction substantially perpendicular to a surface normal of the first or second surface . Such forces can be substantially stronger than those that a user would employ to rotate the screen structure e.g. forces applied to overcome the weight of the screen structure and or resistance of the hinges . In some embodiments the first and second surfaces are oriented such that when the screen assembly is in the stowed configuration the surface normals of the first and second surfaces are substantially parallel to a direction in which torque applied to the screen structure would rotate the screen structure about the axis of rotation defined by the hinges . The first and second surfaces thus can be positioned to counteract torsional forces that otherwise would rotate the screen assembly outward from the housing .

Accordingly in some advantageous embodiments the arm and the lock portion are capable of maintaining the screen structure in the closed orientation in the event of a high speed collision. Impulsive forces generated in such a collision can act on the screen structure in a variety of directions and at a variety of locations. By cancelling torsional forces that would rotate the screen structure about the axis the arm and the lock portion can prevent the screen structure from opening e.g. moving from the stowed state to the deployed state in an undesirable manner.

With reference to in certain embodiments the arm can be moved bent flexed or deformed to a displaced state to permit the screen assembly to move from the stowed position to the deployed position. When in the displaced state the arm can extend in a second direction that is different than the first direction. For example in the illustrated embodiment rather than extending away from the bottom surface of the rear cover as it does in the relaxed state the arm extends toward the bottom surface of the rear cover in the displaced state. Accordingly in some embodiments the arm can be rotated from the relaxed state to the displaced state. In some embodiments the arm can be rotated to the displaced state without rotating the full screen assembly relative to the housing . For example the arm can be placed in the displaced state which allows movement of the screen assembly relative to the housing without also moving the full screen assembly . In other embodiments the arm can be rotated to the displaced state without rotating the screen assembly outward from the housing .

In certain embodiments when the arm is in the displaced state the projections of the arm are outside of the openings of the lock portion . Accordingly the first surface is spaced from the second surface such that the first and second surfaces can move past each other. As a result the screen structure can be rotated to the deployed position.

In some embodiments in order to actuate the arm e.g. move the arm from the relaxed to the displaced state a user places one or more two or more or three or more finger tips shown in phantom within the cavity which can be at least partially defined at a lower end by the pad and at an upper end by the flange of the housing . In some embodiments the flange is in sufficiently close proximity to the pad to prevent a user from inserting his or her fingertips between the pad and the flange and or into the space between the housing and the shell . Accordingly the flange can serve as a backstop for a user s fingers.

In further embodiments the flange can facilitate actuation of the arm . For example in some embodiments the concave shape flange curves toward a forward facing surface e.g. a back surface from a user s perspective of the finger catch . The flange can thus urge a user s finger tips toward the finger catch as the user lifts his or her fingers to actuate the arm .

In some embodiments a user touches grasps or otherwise handles the forward facing surface and or a bottom surface of the finger catch in order to actuate the arm . In some instances the user may further touch grasp or otherwise handle the rear facing surface of the finger catch with a thumb. In some embodiments the finger catch is moved in a direction that is substantially parallel to a plane defined by the viewing screen . For example in the illustrated embodiment the viewing screen see is substantially vertical and thus defines a substantially vertical plane. The finger catch can be lifted by a user in a substantially vertical direction indicated by the arrow to move the projections out of the opening . In the illustrated embodiment the finger catch is below the viewing screen thus the finger catch is moved toward a center point of the viewing screen to actuate the arm . The user thus can pull the finger catch in a substantially horizontal direction to cause the screen assembly to rotate.

With reference to In some embodiments the arm is moved to the displaced state when stowing the screen assembly and is returned to the resting state to maintain the screen assembly in the stowed configuration. In the illustrated embodiment the projection defines a curved or rounded lower surface that can cooperate with an upper surface of the lock portion to transition the arm from the relaxed state to the displaced state. As the screen assembly is rotated into the housing the lower surface can contact the surface . As the screen assembly is advanced further into the housing the contact can urge the arm increasingly further from the relaxed state which can produce an increasingly larger restorative force within the arm . Once the screen assembly has been advanced sufficiently far into the housing the arm can spring back to the relaxed state. Accordingly in certain advantageous embodiments a user can stow the screen assembly without manipulating the finger catch . For example a user can merely press on a lower face of the rear cover to transition the screen assembly from the deployed orientation to the stowed orientation.

In some embodiments the screen assembly can be rotated by a sufficient amount to provide access to the opening in the lower sidewall of the front cover . Such an arrangement can allow for simple charging and discharging of the media reader . In addition such an arrangement can advantageously maintain the opening in a shielded or enclosed state when the screen assembly is stowed thereby preventing dust debris or other unwanted materials from collecting at or proceeding through the opening .

In some embodiments the base wall and or the viewing screen of the screen assembly are angled with respect to the base wall of the housing when the screen assembly is in the deployed state. As discussed above the hinges can be self tensioning which can permit the screen assembly to be positioned at any angle within a limited range of motion. Thus in some embodiments a user can select a desired angle for the viewing screen .

With reference to in certain embodiments the retaining harness limits a range of angles through which the screen assembly can rotate. For example in the illustrated embodiment the retaining harness limits rotation of the screen assembly to a maximum angle . In some embodiments the maximum angle is the angle between a plane defined by the base wall of the housing and a plane defined by the base wall or in some embodiments a plane defined by the viewing screen of the screen assembly . As previously mentioned in some embodiments the screen assembly can be positioned at any angle between about 0 degrees and the angle due to self tensioning hinges .

In some desirable embodiments the angle is sufficiently large to provide access to the opening in the lower sidewall and or allow a user a variety of viewing angles. Additionally in some embodiments the angle is sufficiently large to allow insertion of a tool such as a screwdriver or a portion thereof into the cavity and through the passageway to aid in inserting or removing the fastener to couple or decouple the shell and the mounting plate . In further embodiments the angle is sufficiently small to prevent or deter a user from removing the retaining harness . The angle can also be sufficiently small to prevent an upper portion of the screen assembly from contacting the shell or the mounting plate . The angle can be selected to maintain a relatively low profile of the entertainment system . In various embodiments the maximum angle is between about 10 degrees and about 60 degrees between about 10 degrees and about 50 degrees between about 15 degrees and about 45 degrees between about 20 degrees and about 40 degrees or between about 25 degrees and about 35 degrees. In some embodiments the angle is no more than about 50 about 40 about 35 about 30 about 25 about 20 or about 15 degrees. In some embodiments the angle is about 33 degrees. Other values of the angle are also possible.

In some embodiments a length of the cord and or the points at which the cord is connected to the mounting plate and the screen assembly can at least partially determine the maximum angle . In various embodiments the length of the cord between the center points of the eyelets is between about 20 and about 80 millimeters between about 25 and about 70 millimeters between about 30 and about 60 millimeters between about 40 and about 50 millimeters or between about 42 and 48 millimeters. In some embodiments the length is no more than about 60 about 50 about 40 about 30 or about 20 millimeters. Other values of the length are also possible.

In certain embodiments the retaining harness limits the distance by which the screen assembly can be separated from the headrest or the mounting plate . For example in the unlikely event that screen assembly were in the deployed orientation at the time of a collision and the screen assembly were to separate from the hinges motion of the screen assembly would be constrained by the retaining harness . For example in the illustrated embodiment the retaining harness would prevent the screen assembly from entirely exiting the cavity . However an upper portion of the screen assembly no longer being constrained by the hinges would be free to rotate such that the upper portion could extend through the windows defined by the shell and eventually contact the shell at which point the screen assembly or more particularly a portion of the screen assembly would be at a maximum distance from the mounting plate. Thus in the illustrated embodiment the maximum distance would constitute the distance between the mounting plate and the point along a line normal to the mounting plate . In some advantageous embodiments the dimensions and orientation of the retaining harness are selected to provide for a relatively small maximum separation distance. In some embodiments the retaining harness could prevent separation of the screen assembly from the headrest or mounting plate despite forces experienced for example during a collision. One of skill in the art can appreciate that crash tests are often performed with a vehicle travelling 35 miles per hour and perpendicularly colliding with a concrete collision barrier. In some embodiments the retaining harness can remain coupled to the screen assembly and the headrest or mounting plate under such test conditions or alternatively under other presently existing crash test standards. In some embodiments the retaining harness will remain coupled to the screen assembly and the headrest or mounting plate when the vehicle or screen assembly is subjected to less than about 60 G s less than about 50 G s less than about 40 G s less than about 30 G s less than about 25 G s less than about 20 G s or less than about 15 G s of acceleration including deceleration . In some embodiments any force less than about 2000 pounds on the screen assembly would be insufficient to separate the screen assembly from the headrest or mounting plate . In some embodiments the maximum tension of the cords of the retaining harness that could be achieved without breaking the retaining harness or its connections to the screen assembly or headrest or mounting plate could be less than about 2000 pounds less than about 1500 pounds less than about 1000 pounds less than about 500 pounds less than about 400 pounds less than about 300 pounds less than about 200 pounds less than about 100 pounds or less than about 50 pounds.

In some embodiments the retaining harness does not interfere with rotation of the screen assembly from the open configuration to the closed configuration. As noted above in some embodiments the channels defined by the housing are configured to receive a portion of the cords . In some embodiments the cords are substantially outside of the channels when the screen assembly is in the deployed configuration. The channels can provide sufficient clearance between the base wall of the screen assembly and the base wall of the housing such that the cords are received within the channels as the screen assembly is advanced into the cavity . In some embodiments the cords are relatively long and thus are not taut when the screen assembly is in the closed configuration. Accordingly in some embodiments a portion of the cavity beneath the lower sidewall is sufficiently large to accept excess length of the cords . In some embodiments portions of the cords thus can gather within the cavity .

In further embodiments the passageways are relatively long and are oriented substantially perpendicular to the base wall of the housing which can facilitate passage of the cords through the passageways . As mentioned above the size shape and orientation of the passageways can also facilitate insertion of a tool therethrough for attachment or detachment of the fastener .

As described above in some embodiments the harness provides a secure connection between the mounting plate and the screen assembly . For example in some embodiments a metal fastener is advanced through a first metal eyelet through the base wall of the screen assembly and is secured to the metal frame . Another metal fastener can be advanced through a second metal eyelet through the shell and into the mounting plate . As described above in some embodiments the metal to metal connections can reduce stress points and provide secure connections capable of withstanding large impulse forces.

In some embodiments the entertainment system is configured to open from the top down rather than from the bottom up. That is an upper edge rather than a lower edge of the screen assembly is configured to rotate outside of the headrest when the screen assembly is in the deployed configuration. In some embodiments the entertainment system can be formed by rotating the shell the housing and the screen assembly by approximately 180 degrees about an axis normal to the mounting plate prior to connection of these components with the mounting plate . Appropriate adjustments to for example the protrusions of the mounting plate and or the pads could permit such an arrangement.

Accordingly in certain embodiments the receptacles and the hinges are at a bottom edge of the screen assembly . As a result in some embodiments the axis of rotation of the screen assembly can be below the viewing screen . Other orientations and configurations of the entertainment system are also possible.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any embodiment described above may be combined in any suitable manner as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure in one or more embodiments.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of embodiments various features of the inventions are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that any claim require more features than are expressly recited in that claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in a combination of fewer than all features of any single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. This disclosure includes all permutations of the independent claims with their dependent claims.

