---

title: Electronic information and analysis system
abstract: An automated information and analysis system and methods, including methods to acquire information, which may include financial market data such as rates or prices, from one or more external sources, and to process, enhance, extend or otherwise develop that information to derive additional, different, modified or otherwise developed information which, separately or together with the original acquired information, provides to users additional, different or modified utility relative to the utility that the original acquired information provides alone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788394&OS=08788394&RS=08788394
owner: 
number: 08788394
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130202
---
This patent application claims the authority and filing priority of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 375 590 and 61 525 978 both titled Electronic Information and Analysis System filed on Aug. 20 2010 and Aug. 22 2011 respectively which are both incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates generally to systems to acquire information which may include financial market data such as rates or prices from one or more external sources and to process enhance extend or otherwise develop that acquired information to provide to users additional or modified utility relative to the utility that the original acquired information provides alone.

Each day the financial markets produce a wide variety of market information that continues to evolve dynamically over the course of that day. Much of the financial information that market participants need however is not directly observable from the markets but must be derived from market information through arbitrage relationships as described below.

By way of illustration one important example of financial information not directly observable from the markets comprises zero prices and their equivalent zero rates. On a practical level zero prices provide the foundations for valuing financial positions including assets such as stocks and bonds liabilities such as loans and other financings and derivatives and more generally for valuing future payments whether derived from financial or other business projects or from other sources. On a more theoretical level zero prices provide a robust and reliable basis for identifying profitable financial transactions and for managing the risk associated with those transactions as discussed in for example D. Duffie 31 3rd ed Princeton University Press 2001 and J. Hull 7th ed. Prentice Hall 2008 . Another example of unobservable information that market participants need comprises forward rates and forward prices which generally comprise rates and prices that may be fixed at no cost in the market today for payment or receipt on a specified future date. Although zero and forward rates and prices are generally not directly observable from the financial markets they may be derived from observable market information through methods comprising mathematical operations that reflect arbitrage relationships. Prior art filings in respect of market information include U.S. Pat. No. 7 734 533 U.S. Pat. No. 6 304 858 U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0063915 U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0061452 U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0016509 U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0273408 and U.S. Patent Application No. 2003 0093351.

U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0273408 discloses systems for managing financial market information by generating a multidimensional graphical depiction of market data for at least two financial instruments. U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0016509 discloses a computer aided method for establishing a secondary market relevant price for a bond issued by a corporate entity based in part on accessing data relating to executed secondary market trades for bonds issued by the entity. U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0016509 also discloses generally a method for generating the portion of an interpolated yield curve relevant to an identified bond with a particular maturity and other specified terms. The curves drawn in the FIGS. 7 through 9 of the 509 application appear to represent simple linear interpolation although the text of the application references cubic splines.

U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0016509 discloses a computer aided method for establishing secondary market relevant prices for corporate bonds which involves accessing data relating to executed secondary market trades for bonds issued by a corporate entity and using a bond pricing model to calculate an anticipated price for another bond issued by that entity. U.S. Pat. No. 6 304 858 discloses a method system computer program product and data structure for trading in which a standardized contract is traded. This filing also states a known mathematical formula for bootstrapping interest rates to compute zero prices using the resulting zero prices to value an actual or hypothetical bond generally for purposes of establishing a contract intended to offer the contractual parties similar interest rate sensitivity to that of an interest rate swap. While this patent discloses a single formula for deriving zero prices it does not disclose any method for obtaining market data nor does it disclose how its formula an older one that has several disadvantages relative to more modern methods such as constant forward rate interpolation would be implemented in a machine. Other examples of zero price zero rate estimation appear in the literature see e.g. Ferstl Hayden Zero Coupon Yield Curve Estimation with the Package termstrc Issue 1 Vol. 36 August 2010 Monetary and Economic Department Zero coupon yield curves technical documentation 25 October 2005 available at http www.bis.org publ bppdf bispap25.pdf but these too typically employ unreliable interpolation methods.

U.S. Patent Application No. 2007 0061452 discloses a system for providing notification generally through a paging network of specified market conditions to be monitored. U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 146 discloses a system for retrieval and display of financial information. Users may customize the types of information displayed by a portal display page. U.S. Patent Application No. 2003 0093351 discloses a fixed rate investment value modeling system and methods to calculate the current price or market value of a fixed rate investment such as a Certificate of Deposit based on instrument specific data and market specific data provided to the system. U.S. Patent Application No. 2010 0063915 similarly discloses a system and methods for providing pricing of mortgage backed securities and other financial instruments which determine among other things a continuously compounded interest rate spread corresponding to the option adjusted spread prevailing at the market.

Other patent filings in this general area relate primarily to trading. See generally the US Patent References in U.S. Pat. No. 7 734 533 disclosing a method and system for providing electronic trading via yield curves and citing extensive filings of related prior art.

Other examples of prior art are commercial information services such as those provided by Thompson Reuters Corporation or by Bloomberg L.P. The pricing and trading systems of financial institutions particularly the larger and more sophisticated institutions comprise much of the prior art on the acquisition organization development and display of observable market information and derivation of unobservable information from that observable market information. These systems typically obtain the observable information from prices and rates on specified transactions in benchmark financial instruments selected to meet certain requirements including the following. The instruments must be traded in sufficient amounts and with sufficient regularity that the associated prices or rates are realistic representatives of what can be achieved in the market. The purpose of this requirement is that there should be a liquid market for the instruments. In this context the existence of a liquid market for an instrument means among other things that at the time a price of or rate on the instrument is observed on contemporaneous market transactions a hypothetical market participant could purchase or sell a significant amount of that instrument at a price or invest or issue a significant amount of that instrument at rate that is reasonably close to the observed price or rate without affecting instrument s the market price and subject to acceptably small transaction costs. Such transactions costs include the spread between purchasing and selling the instrument referred to as the bid ask spread .

In broad overview then many sophisticated financial institutions intend that benchmark financial instruments should among other requirements have the property that new transactions in those instruments may be executed on close to the same terms as those observed on transactions which have just been executed. In other words the prices and rates observed on recent benchmark instruments should be predictive for the immediate future. As discussed below notwithstanding this objective finding prices and rates on observable benchmark instruments with this predictive property can be challenging for even the largest and most sophisticated institutions particularly with regard to the implicit prices and rates not observable in the market that are derived from observable prices and rates.

Having selected a set of observable benchmark instruments meeting the liquidity and other requirements sophisticated financial institutions obtain the associated prices or rates for the selected benchmark instruments from their own trading desks from third party market makers or other market participants or from external electronic data sources and program their computers to compute zero prices and otherwise derive needed unobservable financial information using one or more of the methods known in the financial art certain of which are described below. The derived information typically includes zero and forward rate information at certain maturities including periodic maturities such as semiannually monthly or daily. A collection of rates of a particular type for every such maturity is often referred to as a rate curve yield curve or just a curve by reference to its shape when graphed. This information is then distributed or otherwise made available to specified individuals including certain employees of the institution through the institution s private network.

These existing systems and methods for deriving needed unobservable financial information have numerous problems including the following. The required private systems and other infrastructure are expensive to establish and maintain and the systems require frequent time consuming updates and configuration. Regulatory organizational political and other restrictions and requirements lead to duplicate and overlapping systems further increasing costs. Market disruptions or dislocations disrupt such systems occasionally producing data that is flawed misleading or useless and not infrequently causing such systems to crash. The infrastructure that develops the curves and other information is a component in the institution s larger systems and so must communicate with and is dependent upon other internal and external systems. The communication systems and methods require additional maintenance and configuration for the required interfaces and protocols providing another source of errors. The instrument by instrument approach to data acquisition aggravates the problems. If data for each instrument is acquired separately the aforementioned problems may arise separately with respect to each instrument or security feed corrupting the development of information for all the instruments since the derived information for a specified maturity frequently depends on all the observed information for all earlier maturities as well as that for the next consecutive maturity.

These and other problems of existing private systems create high infrastructure and other costs and also create periodic delays and inaccuracies and insufficient reliability. Other problems include inconsistency inaccessibility and lack of transparency. Inconsistency arises because of the instrument by instrument approach and the private infrastructure which must interface with multiple internal systems. Inaccessibility arises because of the private system infrastructure required to access the data which frequently must be further restricted within an organization for political organizational and technological reasons. Lack of transparency arises because of organizational and practical issues surrounding private systems and the desire for privacy. Because the associated processes are bespoke description disclosure and communication of these processes all of which are required for transparency require significant investment which the host organization may be unwilling or unable to make. In addition the private and potentially proprietary nature of the host systems raises further issues of confidentiality. Political and organizational concerns may also limit transparency. In the absence of transparency the inconsistencies inefficiencies outright errors and other problems that systems and methods providing complex data and data processing such as those discussed above may develop are difficult to detect and correct. Moreover corrections improvements updates and other modifications to such complex systems are made considerably more difficult by lack of transparency since the details about the design performance and even the objectives and history of such systems may not be readily available.

Notwithstanding their lack of transparency reliability and other problems these private systems are thought to achieve certain desired objectives such as privacy competitive advantage timeliness and customization. As discussed elsewhere herein the objectives of privacy and competitive advantage carry a high cost in terms of lack of transparency and in any event are most valuable to a narrow and highly specialized segment of market information users. Embodiments of the present invention achieve the remaining objectives almost as well and in many cases better than the private systems of prior art but at far lower cost while offering transparency and other advantages. First with respect to privacy and competitive advantage while certain institutions treat their curve development methodology as proprietary and seek vigorously to keep it confidential the primary objective of curve development including zero and forward prices and rates is to derive accurate and timely information from current observable market levels. Observable information on current market levels is either widely known or will be so shortly. The more reliable methods of deriving unobservable information like zero and forward prices from observable market information are known in the financial art. As discussed above transparency in respect of derivation methods facilitates diagnosis and correction of problems with and improvements updates and modifications to systems implementing these methods. Because these derivation methods are widely known and widely disseminated including in the academic community the competitive advantages of proprietary methods in private systems are modest and relate primarily to high frequency proprietary trading a small community to which the present invention and its embodiments are not primarily directed.

As a result the usefulness of privacy and confidentiality in respect of current market information and in respect of methodology to acquire such information and derive other information from such acquired information is modest with respect to most users of such information. By contrast forecasting models with the objective of predicting future market levels are most valuable when their methodology is confidential since to obtain a transaction in the market for less than its predicted future market value the transaction s current market price must not fully reflect that future market value prediction which is less likely if the prediction is widely known. Confidentiality with respect to future market predictions and related methodology is thus potentially very valuable. By making data including stored data available to users at low cost embodiments of the present invention facilitate the research into and analysis of current and historic data that developers and users of such predictive models require.

With respect to timeliness information on prices and rates for transactions that may be executed currently in the market is elusive even in a liquid market. Pricing on transactions that may be executed currently is sometimes referred to as live pricing and differs from pricing on past transactions which however recent are merely indicative of current market levels.

Unfortunately the only assured route to currently available live prices or rates is to obtain live quotes from a buyer seller lender issuer or other provider of transactions that is prepared to enter into transactions on the quoted terms. Such quotes are however too narrow to provide a basis for a curve of prices or rates. Providers generally will not make a broad range of live price or rate quotes available nor will they hold them open over an extended period as terms upon which the provider feels bound to transact. For one thing should the market move away from such terms a provider that held such terms open may experience an economic loss were that provider to transact on those outdated terms. More generally providers are in the business of transacting not of providing market information. They may make a price or rate at which they will transact available to a customer for a brief period in order to facilitate a transaction with that customer assuming the provider believes the customer is negotiating in good faith.

The alternative to live quotes is a list of the prices or rates at which recent transactions have been consummated by third parties. Such a list because it represents dated information akin to a car that becomes used the moment it is driven off a car dealers lot is unlikely to represent the prices and rates that new parties can actually achieve for several reasons among them the following. The counterparty in a previous transaction may have fully satisfied their appetite for the particular instrument and the remaining parties may offer less attractive terms. Even in the absence of market changes there is no assurance that such a list of executed transactions between particular parties is representative of what transactions are available to different parties even for transactions in the same size and even less so for transactions in different sizes.

In short a discussion with a dealer who stands ready to transact is unlikely to be representative of a full range of available terms although it may lead to a single transaction on a single set of terms. Such discussions are accordingly inappropriate sources for a full curve. By contrast a broad list of actual executed transactions may not be representative of the terms a dealer who stands ready to transact will offer for new transactions although such a list may provide a general indication of such terms. Furthermore much of most important data is unobservable and accordingly must be derived by a computational method from the data on such a list. The derivation methods in the financial art rely on certain assumptions including the assumed absence of arbitrage. As discussed below this assumption is based on the strong economic forces that arbitrage creates to exploit and eliminate it through the possibility of a riskless profit . The rational for this assumption is strong but that rational does not imply that arbitrage can never exist only that significant arbitrage is unlikely to persist over an extended period. Moreover certain other of the assumptions on which the derivation methods rely are based on more general considerations such as the probable shape of certain rate curves. These assumptions are subject to less certainty than the assumed absence of arbitrage.

For all these reasons the price and rate curves and other financial data derived in the prior financial art have limited predictive accuracy notwithstanding the emphasis on using recent data to derive them. The derivation methods of prior financial art accordingly have the problems described above including expense unreliability inaccuracy inconsistency inaccessibility and lack of transparency and in addition offer somewhat limited value as predictions of current levels at which new transactions may be executed. As described in greater detail below embodiments of the present invention solve these problems by achieving low cost reliability accuracy consistency accessibility and transparency with only modest loss of predictive value.

Relative to private systems however the currently preferred embodiments of the present invention by achieving transparency necessarily sacrifice privacy to a certain extent for example the development and derivation methods of these embodiments are preferably fully disclosed to users and based on open source programming tools and systems.

Users may nonetheless use the data and other information provided by these embodiments in any manner they see fit including as the basis for analysis and other processes that are wholly or partially private or proprietary. Moreover certain embodiments provide and expose one or more application programming interfaces or API s providing users means to incorporate the information these embodiments provide directly into their own private systems. Other embodiments provide users means to develop private methods that may be incorporated into the embodiments and used exclusively by those users.

As described below by obtaining benchmark data at low cost or no cost from compilations such as those provided by a public or quasi public entity such as the Federal Reserve Bank or a financial exchange the currently preferred embodiments eliminate the costs and many other problems associated with the private systems of the prior financial art. By using such data and standardizing derivation and development methods these embodiments also provide consistency reliability accessibility and transparency. Consistency is enhanced by using data compilations because the process of acquiring data from each such compilation need only be configured once rather than instrument by instrument which is difficult even where the data for all instruments comes from a single source. Changes in compilation formatting and conventions such as for example quotation basis are infrequent and are typically announced well in advance facilitating efficient and effective updates to such configuration. Transparency is provided by using where possible open source publicly available software and publicly available data and fully disclosing all relevant development and derivation methodology so that users generally may inspect and verify embodiments data and processes. Similarly reliability is enhanced by using data distributed widely for example by a public or quasi public entity and separating all component processes into individual modules submodules classes and subclasses that are easy to inspect and maintain. Accessibility is provided by the features just described and the currently preferred communication methods over one or more public or private computer telecommunication or other networks offering access to wide communities of potential users.

Using third party compilations for data results in a certain amount of delay for the data to be compiled and distributed. However as a result of the Internet and other advances in telecommunications the delay associated with distribution is minimal. The delay associated with the compilation process can be meaningful not infrequently two days or occasionally longer but as discussed above live pricing is in any case elusive and reasonably contemporary data of the sort currently preferred embodiments of the present invention generally provides is generally sufficient to analyze potential transactions under current market conditions. Moreover as indicated above certain of the currently preferred embodiments of the present invention provide data entry and modification means for users to update add to or otherwise modify the data the system provides allowing up to the minute timeliness where users feel it is needed. Certain of these embodiments provide and expose one or more APIs allowing users to provide real time data addition modification and enhancement. Users who require truly live pricing for example in connection with transaction execution will obtain it from transaction providers as they do currently embodiments of the present invention provide to such users detailed analytics to interpret and validate the quotes from such transaction providers. In particular users of these embodiments may enter the new data provided by transaction providers and immediately derive complete rate curves using the embodiments derivation methodology.

Based on appropriate data certain embodiments of the present invention will also derive rate curves in one or more currencies such as US Dollars European Euros British Pounds Sterling Canadian Dollars or Japanese Yen. Certain other embodiments will derive foreign exchange rates commodity prices such as oil or soybean contract prices credit spreads or equity or equity index prices on a current and a forward basis or where available futures contracts levels. Other embodiments will provide analysis and evaluation of many or most common transactions including derivatives based on one or more of the foregoing underlying tradable assets including forward contracts or swaps or puts calls or compound complex or other options or other derivatives as described in greater detail in 0 below Note on Arbitrage Free Pricing .

One important example of market information reflected in certain of the present invention s currently preferred embodiments is that of zero prices. Zero prices a term familiar to those skilled in the financial art refer to the prices of zero coupon bonds which are bonds that provide for only a single payment at maturity and no interim coupon payments. A zero coupon bond thus has only two payments its issue price and its redemption payment at maturity. Such a bond s yield is thus uniquely specified by a the quotient of the latter payment divided by the former payment together b with the bond s maturity. The yield of a bond is a well known term in the financial art that describes the annual or other periodic rate of economic income a bond provides for its holder represented by the relationship between the bond s payments that the holder receives relative to the bond s price that its owner pays. For a zero coupon bond the inverse of this quotient equal to the bond s issue price divided by its redemption price is referred to in the financial art as the zero price for that bond and provides a simple computational method for determining the present value today of any payment on the bond s specified future maturity date made by the issuer of the bond or other payer of the same credit quality or class. As described below the required present value is just the nominal value of the future payment multiplied by the zero price.

In the financial art the zero price is sometimes also referred to as a discount factor reflecting the fact that the zero price is less than one as long as the bond s yield is positive consistent with the general experience with nominal interest rates. The length of the period from a bond s issue date to its maturity date is referred to as the bond s tenor although the term maturity is sometimes also used when the context makes clear the reference is to the length of a period rather than to a specific maturity date. Accordingly zero prices form a foundation for financial valuation. By establishing the price today for a fixed future payment on a specified future maturity date with no payments prior to that maturity date a zero price establishes the ratio between the value of the future payment today and the amount of that payment in the future. In the absence of arbitrage as described below this ratio must be the same for every zero coupon bond of a single issuer with that maturity date and thus provides a procedure for determining the value today of any payment on that future date.

The value of a bond s future payments determined by arbitrage methods as discussed below need not be the same as the bond s market price but if they differ an arbitrage may arise. If arbitrage should arise however it is unlikely to persist in any significant size for the following reasons. Suppose there is a zero coupon bond that pays 1000 at its maturity in ten years and sells at a price of 500 today. The zero price associated with this bond is 500 1000 or fifty percent equal to the ratio between the bond s current sales price and the future payment.

Were the issuer of the bond to promise to pay 2000 in ten years in a separate financial or commercial transaction that promise must be worth 1000 today determined as fifty percent of 2000 in the absence of arbitrage. An arbitrage transaction is one that offers the certainty or possibility of a receipt without the risk of a payment. If such a transaction becomes available natural market forces will eliminate it. For example suppose a bond issuer issued for 500 each a first class of bonds as above each bond providing a single payment at maturity in ten years of 1000 and no other payments and also issued for 1200 each a second class of bonds each providing a single payment at maturity in ten years of 2000 and no other payments. Using short sales a technique well known in the financial art a market participant may sell the latter bonds short and buy the former bonds and thus create an arbitrage.

More specifically a market participant may sell a bond of the second class short raising 1200 in proceeds immediately but incurring an obligation to pay 2000 in ten years. That participant could then use 1000 of the 1200 short sale proceeds to purchase two bonds of the first class assuring a receipt in ten years of 2000 for every two bonds purchased. The aggregate net consequences of the short sale and the purchase would be a receipt of 200 immediately per bond sold short and no net payment obligation at any time. This is an arbitrage a receipt with no risk of any payment. Because a riskless profit is attractive market participants would execute this transaction as much as they could. The effect of this activity by market participants would be to increase the price of the first class of bonds by increasing demand through purchases and decrease the price of the second class of bonds by increasing supply through sales. The activity would cease when the price of the first class of bonds had risen and the price of the second class of bonds had fallen until the latter was exactly twice the former since only in that event would arbitrage disappear.

Arbitrage is accordingly an unstable phenomenon itself providing incentives for market participants to eliminate it. Moreover the greater the riskless profit an arbitrage offers the greater the incentives for market participants to act to eliminate it. It is therefore conventional in the financial art to assume the absence of arbitrage in analyzing market transactions. While this assumption is not invariably met arbitrages offering significant profits rarely persist over significant periods for the reasons described above and financial professionals and informed private actors alike accordingly make assuming the absence of arbitrage a cornerstone of their analysis and decision making.

As described above a bond s yield is inversely related to the bond s price the higher the latter the lower the former. Absence of arbitrage may thus be expressed as the equality of the yield of the two classes of zero coupon bonds of the same issuer with the same tenor described above. In the absence of arbitrage the two classes of bonds will have the same relationship between their price and their payments in each case consisting of a single payment at their common maturity. In the simple case of a zero coupon bond the relationship can be expressed by the zero price the quotient of the price divided by the payment at maturity.

More broadly two bonds of issuers of the same credit quality with the same payment terms up to scaling by a constant to reflect the bonds sizes should generally provide the same yield in the absence of arbitrage since should the yields differ for example the credit risk of one can be exchanged in the derivatives market for the credit risk of the other and an arbitrage then constructed in a similar manner to that described above. Two zero coupon bonds have the same payment terms up to scale if they have the same maturity date and the same payment on that date since the maturity date is the only payment date.

Each credit class of issuers thus corresponds to a consistent series of zero coupon bond yields indexed by maturity one yield for each maturity. Such a series of yields or rates is often referred to as a yield curve or rate curve and is graphically represented as a curve with maturities on the x axis and yields on the y axis. An interesting example of such curves are the forward curves and data available for the Euro zone at http www.ecb.europa.eu stats money yc html index.en.html. The curves and data include zero spot rates par rates and instantaneous forward rates. In the ECB s Svensson model the par rates are derived quantities.

There is an attractive source of yield information for bonds well known in the financial art as the interest rate swap or just the swap market. This market has standardized terms and is very large reported to be 342 trillion in notional amount as of June 2009. Although swaps are interest rate derivatives not bonds the rates in the swap market are considered to be reasonable indications of the yields on bonds with similar maturities issued by issuers with a strong credit rating such as AA or Aa2 from Standard Poor s and Moody s respectively.

Swaps typically have maturities no less than one year so for shorter maturities the source of yield information is a different type of interest rate derivative known as Eurodollar contracts. The yields quoted on an instrument such as a swap or Eurodollar contract depend on several conventions which may differ between different instruments. The yields associated with Eurodollar contracts thus need to be adjusted to make them comparable to the yields associated with swaps. Certain adjustments reflect the difference in quotation basis such as Act 360 or 30 360 day counts or conventions for business day calendars. Other adjustments are sometimes referred to as convexity adjustments in the financial art for Eurodollar contracts with maturities less than a year these convexity adjustments are generally small.

A substantially complete yield curve may thus be constructed from the yields implicit in swaps and Eurodollar contracts together the latter generally for maturities less than one year the former generally for maturities one year or greater. An important issue remains one well known in the financial art. Swap rates the term preferred to yield in the financial art in respect of swaps reflect periodic payments typically every six months in the United States markets and one year in the European markets. Rates that are paid periodically are typically referred to as par rates because in the case of bonds such a rate is typically set at issuance at a level that will cause a bond carrying that rate to sell at its face or par amount. A par rate thus corresponds to a market rate at origination. The more important quantities however are zero coupon prices and rates which are equivalent since the rate on a bond including a zero coupon bond determines its price up to scaling for size and conversely as is well known in the financial art. As described above from a practical perspective zero prices are the foundation of valuing any transaction and from a more sophisticated perspective they are fundamental to finding arbitrages. One result well known in the financial art is that subject to certain conditions a transaction may be structured as part of an arbitrage if and only if that transaction has positive value based on appropriate zero prices. See generally Duffie 31 cited above. Thus many transactions including complex ones may be tested for arbitrage potential using zero prices.

Moreover zero prices provide a means of computing forward rates the current market s assessment of the level of future rates. The use and derivation of forward rates is part of the financial art and will be discussed in greater detail below. As part of the financial art these results are well known and are described in many sources including the reference materials cited above.

Zero prices and rates may be determined from par rates which in turn may be observed in the market justifying the use of the term observables to describe such market rates. The basic and well known technique relies on the absence of arbitrage and may be summarized as follows. Suppose there are two observable rates a one year zero coupon rate of 5 and a two year annual par rate of 10 . The par rate is not a zero rate because the annual par rate represents a rate paid annually once at the end of the first year and again at the end of the second year. However a 100 long position in the two year par rate and a 9.52 short position in the one year zero rate offsetting the first annual payment on the long position has the net consequences of a derived called synthetic in the art 90.48 long position in a two year zero rate paying 110 in two years resulting in an annualized derived zero rate of 10.62 and an associated derived zero price of 90.48 110 82.25 . This computation is well known in the financial art. If there were an observable two year zero rate that rate must in the absence of arbitrage equal the 10.62 rate derived above from the one year zero rate and the two year annual par rate. Were there a difference between the observed two year zero rate and the derived two year zero rate an arbitrage could be created by shorting the lower rate and purchasing the higher rate where the position in the derived zero rate would be established by establishing appropriate positions in the one year zero rate and the two year annual par rate. The existence of such an arbitrage would be profitable to market participants who identify it these market participants would then act to eliminate the underlying difference between the two zero rates and thus eliminate the arbitrage. This analysis shows that an observable one year zero rate and an observable two year annual par rate may be combined to derive a two year zero rate even were there no observable two year zero rate. If an observable three year annual par rate is available from the market the observable one year zero rate the derived two year zero rate and the observable three year annual par rate may be combined in a manner similar to that discussed above and well known in the financial art to determine a derived three year zero rate regardless of whether such a zero rate is observable in the market.

This method of deriving zero rates and prices iteratively sometimes referred to in the financial art as bootstrapping is effective where there are par rates observable on liquid instruments at each needed maturity including each date on which a periodic payment is made on a par rate. This is seldom the case however. For example in the United States par rate swaps and bonds typically provide for periodic payments referred to as coupon payments for largely historic reasons every six months. There are however few if any observable par rates on instruments with maturity an odd number of semiannual periods from the issue date of the associated instrument and those that exist are too illiquid to make effective observables for these purposes. To be effective an observable instrument must be traded with sufficiently liquidity that a market participant may establish long or short positions in that instrument in reasonable size without affecting the market through changing the rate or incurring undue cost. By way of illustration in the United States liquid par swaps and thus liquid par swap rates exist with maturities of seven and ten years but not with maturities of seven and one half years eight years or other intermediate annual or semiannual maturities.

There are a number of methods all well known in the financial art for addressing the absence of observable par rates at all needed maturities methods that permit derivation of complete par zero and forward rate curves. The first and simplest method is linear interpolation of observable par rates to determine par rates for intermediate maturities. By way of illustration if a seven year maturity par swap rate were six percent and a ten year maturity par swap rate were twelve percent the linearly interpolated eight and nine year maturity par swap rates would be eight and ten percent respectively and linearly interpolated par swap rates for the intermediate semiannual maturities would be determined similarly. The linearly interpolated eight and one half year swap rate would be nine percent for example.

While simple linear par rate interpolation has certain infirmities including those related to hedging with the resulting zero rates the details of which are described in the literature related to the financial art. A more complex but superior interpolation method is referred to in the art as the constant forward rate method . This method determines intermediate zero prices first and from them then derives intermediate par rates. As with several other methods the constant forward rate method uses bootstrapping and may be described by describing the iterative step to determine the zero prices for a longer maturity once a par rate for the longer maturity and zero prices for all shorter maturities have been determined. This iterative step for the constant forward rate method may be summarized as follows in the context of zero prices previously determined for all relevant semiannual maturities not longer than seven years and an observed ten year maturity par swap rate.

The following example determines annual rates for simplicity. Accordingly the observed ten year par swap rate is assumed to pay on each annual anniversary of the date accruals begin known as the swap s start date from one to ten years. First a brief description of forward rates is helpful. Ignoring certain technicalities not material here a one year forward rate with an effective date of seven years is a rate for one year that accrues from the seven year anniversary of the date the forward rate is specified to a maturity date referred to as the termination date one year after that seven year anniversary which is to say the eight year anniversary of that specification date. The constant forward rate method is then as follows. Given zero prices with annual maturities of seven years or less that have previously been determined the method picks any value call it FR for the one year forward rate with effective date of seven years. The constant forward rate method assumes that all three of the one year forward rates with effective dates from seven to nine years one for each of the three intermediate annual intervals i.e. seven to eight eight to nine and nine to ten years are constant and equal to the same forward rate FR that was picked for a seven year effective date. Under this assumption as is well known in the financial art three zero prices may be derived from FR the constant annual forward rate picked one for each of the three annual maturities from eight to ten years by repeatedly dividing each previous annual zero price by the quantity one plus the annual forward rate i.e. 1 FR starting with the seven year maturity zero price and dividing by this quantity repeatedly to derive the eight nine and ten year maturity zero prices. As is well known in the financial art these must be the true zero prices if as assumed the annual forward rates are all constant and equal to FR. The three zero prices just computed for maturities from eight to ten years together with the seven zero prices for maturities from one to seven years which were by assumption previously determined provide a complete set of ten zero prices at all annual maturities from one to ten years. These ten zero prices may be applied to compute the present value of the payments on a par bond of appropriate credit quality with a ten year maturity and ten annual coupon payments at the observed ten year par swap rate together with the principal payment at such a bond s ten year maturity date. Because the ten year par swap rate was observed in the market and thus represents a market par rate for such a bond the bond must have a market price and thus in the absence of arbitrage a present value of par equal to its face amount.

This condition that such a bond s present value must equal its par amount imposes a condition on the annual forward rate FR and there is generally a unique forward rate that satisfies this condition which may be determined by Newton s method or other iterative closed form or other procedure well known in the computational art. This method of deriving zero prices for annual maturities from eight to ten years given zero prices for earlier maturities and an observed ten year par rate is sometimes referred to in the financial art as the constant forward rate interpolation method. The par rates with annual maturities from eight to ten years may then be derived from the zero prices because bonds with those par rates and associated maturities must have a present value of par based on those zero prices. This computation is also well known in the financial art. Sample pseudocode illustrating the constant forward rate interpolation method in the context of one of the currently preferred embodiments of the present invention appears at E SAMPLE CODE EXCERPTS below.

Similar arbitrage principles apply to establish relationships between a forward prices rates and spreads with respect to equities commodities foreign exchange and credit and b the current market or spot levels of such prices rates and spreads. For example the forward price of an asset for delivery on a specified future settlement date is the price to which parties would agree today based on current market levels for delivery and payment on the future settlement date. One example is the forward price for commodities under hedging contracts into which commodity producers enter to manage the price risk of the commodities they produce. Very generally in the absence of arbitrage a the forward price for any tradable asset should equal b the asset s current market price plus the sum of i interest compounded through the forward delivery date and ii any costs carrying costs required to hold the asset minus iii any income from the asset. By way of illustration in the case of the commodity oil carrying costs should include storage costs. In case of equities income from the asset should include dividends. In the case of foreign exchange the income from the asset may comprise the interest payments on a foreign currency denominated bond.

In broad outline the justification for this relationship between forward and current market prices is that should a and b differ market participants may obtain riskless profits by purchasing or selling short the physical asset purchasing or selling depending on the sign of the difference until the specified future settlement date financing the purchase with or investing the short sales proceeds in interest bearing debt while also paying any carrying costs and receiving any income.

Similar relationships based on more complex justifications apply to options swaps and other derivatives on tradable assets. The absence of arbitrage thus provides a general basis for pricing many derivatives on tradable assets and related quantities such as rates. These relationships and their justification are well known in the financial art.

As indicated above the derived zero and other prices and rates provided by certain of the present invention s currently preferred embodiments offer valuation procedures that assume the absence of arbitrage. However where that assumption does not hold these procedures provide users of these embodiment means to identify arbitrage thus providing the even greater benefit of identifying transactions offering potentially riskless profits.

To ameliorate the problems that affect private systems and other systems under prior art the present invention includes several elements that are new to the art with the objectives of providing a system that provides low cost comprehensive benchmark and developed rate curve information and other information and services that is timely reliable accessible consistent and transparent. Certain embodiments provide additional methods in connection with this information.

These and other objectives of the present invention are achieved in certain embodiments by methods for acquiring information such as market information and deriving and otherwise developing other information from that information and providing the original information together with the developed information to users along with in certain of these embodiments methods to analyze that information and use that information in additional useful processes.

Embodiments of the present invention provide information which financial market participants and others entering into transactions with financial consequences need in order to make timely accurate and effective decisions including with respect to the management of their investments loans and other financial positions. Users of the present invention include sophisticated individuals and financial institutions large and small companies needing to finance their activities and manage their activities and small retail investors and borrowers.

Current exemplary embodiments of the present invention include a host computer system with processes and executable code modules for

Certain embodiments of the present invention include one or more of these components steps as part of systems processes that are wholly or partially new to or represent improvements over existing art or are combined in new or improved ways relative to existing art. These components steps by themselves or when combined with other components steps offer significant practical and useful advantages over existing art to users of financial information. One such advantage is dramatically reduced expense of providing the desired information. As discussed below there are many other advantages as well.

The variety of financial instrument pricing models including option pricing models in the financial art is extensive and well known. The selection specification and use of these models are extremely technical and specific to particular circumstances including market conditions and terms of particular instruments. Embodiments of the present invention accordingly provide several useful methods for valuing financial instruments while also providing the comprehensive market data and related developed data that such detailed and specific pricing models require thus allowing users with strong preferences for particular models to use those models to derive customized valuation.

These embodiments may also include modules to acquire market data from currently existing external sources and modules that process the acquired market data to develop complete par zero and forward curves that are free of arbitrage as described below. Certain of these embodiments provide additional modules for users a to modify the acquired market data to reflect for example user estimates of credit spreads and b to reprocess the modified market data to redevelop complete curves reflecting these modifications. These modified curves are also arbitrage free. Certain of these embodiments provide valuation modules that value transactions the terms of which users may specify based on these complete curves. Certain embodiments also provide modules that obtain transaction terms automatically from other external sources such as from FINRA s TRACE systems based on CUSIP numbers or security symbols.

In light of the above generally speaking and without intending to be limiting one aspect of invention involves financial information analysis systems that include for example at least a computer readable memory containing at least the following computer executable objects a CurveMaker object configured to receive one or more URL s each corresponding to a webpage and generate one or more rate objects by instantiating a RateTable object for each URL each instantiated RateTable object configured to invoke a getData method to obtain data from the webpage or a local copy thereof utilize regular expression scanning to ascertain header and tenor information therein utilize said ascertained header and tenor information to decode numerical rate information therein and associate said decoded numerical rate information with a plurality of rate subclasses said plurality of rate subclasses including at least a ConstFwdRate subclass and a LinearParRate subclass the ConstFwdRate subclass used to hold rates including zero prices and forward rates calculated by constant forward interpolation and the LinearParRate subclass used to hold linearly interpolated rates including par rates and bootstrapped zero rates. Such systems preferably further include at least one Internet connected server configured to execute said CurveMaker object. At least one of the webpages may include Federal Reserve H.15 data and or ECB data typically formatted for reading by a human rather than a computer. Such systems may further include a webserver configured to 1 execute said CurveMaker object 2 utilize rate information computed by said CurveMarker object to evaluate an investment vehicle and 3 report results of said evaluation via the Internet. The investment vehicle may include a bond a stock an interest rate swap or a portfolio containing these and other instruments. Such systems may further include 4 means for manually modifying or overriding numerical rate information decoded by the getData method and 5 code for reevaluating the investment vehicle using the manually modified or overridden data. Alternatively or additionally such systems may further include 4 means for manually modifying or overriding numerical rate information decoded by the getData method and 5 code for reevaluating the LinearParRate and or ConstFwdRate subclass es based upon the manually modified or overridden numerical rate information.

Again generally speaking and without intending to be limiting another aspect of the invention relates to method for computing financial information by for example instantiating a CurveMaker object in the memory of an Internet connected server the CurveMarker object configured to receive one or more URL s each corresponding to a webpage and generate one or more rate objects by instantiating a RateTable object for each URL each instantiated RateTable object configured to invoke a getData method to obtain data from the webpage or a local copy thereof utilize regular expression scanning to ascertain header and tenor information therein utilize said ascertained header and tenor information to decode numerical rate information therein and associate said decoded numerical rate information with a plurality of rate subclasses said plurality of rate subclasses including at least a ConstFwdRate subclass and a LinearParRate subclass the ConstFwdRate subclass used to hold rates including zero prices and forward rates calculated by constant forward interpolation and the LinearParRate subclass used to hold linearly interpolated rates including par rates and bootstrapped zero rates. Such methods may further include receiving over the Internet an instruction to execute said CurveMaker object. At least one of the webpages preferably includes Federal Reserve H.15 data and or ECB data typically formatted for reading by a human rather than a computer. Such methods may further include 1 using rate information computed by said CurveMarker object to evaluate an investment vehicle and 2 reporting results of said evaluation via the Internet. The investment vehicles can include bonds stocks or any portfolio of these and other instruments securities or payment streams. Such methods may also include 3 manually modifying or overriding numerical rate information decoded by the getData method and 4 reevaluating the investment vehicle s using the manually modified or overridden data.

In certain of the currently preferred embodiments the new elements the present invention provides relate to one of more of the following modules which in different embodiments may be separate or combined or split into one or more modules or submodules or expressed as classes subclasses or functions or other process units or subunits. Here for ease of exposition the indicated elements of the embodiment have been described as distinct and unitary modules. As used herein the term data includes data and or other information such as text representing news or descriptions. Accordingly the currently preferred embodiments may include one or more of the following modules 

As described in greater detail below certain of these modules represent entirely new elements others include partially new elements others represent existing art implemented and combined in whole or part in a new way or ways and the remainder represents existing art. Because the present invention s design is independent of any user s private system the modules may operate over the internet over a private network such as an intranet or over another network.

The system and the information and analysis software on the embodiment s processors or other computing devices can be configured to communicate with user devices including computers computer systems or cellphones within a local area network LAN or over a wide area network WAN such as the internet or a cellphone telephone or other network with or without security. In a WAN a server might intermediate between a user s computer and the embodiment s system and or the user s computer or other device might connect directly or . Such communication may occur over the internet over a wired or wireless network or over any other computer telephone or other telecommunications network. The communication method may include any of the communication protocols or other methods known in the computer or telecommunication arts whether in connection with a graphical user interface or otherwise including http https FTP SFTP EDI IVR electronic messages such as e mail or proprietary communication protocols. In certain embodiments communication may include fax or physical delivery such as traditional mail or by courier or by other delivery means well known in the art.

A communication protocol is established between the embodiment s computer system and the user s devices or systems through in the case of a WAN and through in the case of a LAN. In either case a user s system could include servers WAN or LAN computers through or through respectively or any other receiving sending computing storage or input output devices. User devices systems and components and in various embodiments could include personal laptop desktop or tablet computers phones including smartphones or servers including database servers operating independently or within a user s network for users who access the embodiment using a user network.

The embodiment s system communicates with the user devices and or to receive registration information and thereafter credentials for system access to receive data or other information and requests for configuration and to send or otherwise distribute information or analysis such as developed information or valuation information as webpages files emails text messages or otherwise. One or more of user devices or other components and including any user networks may access the embodiment through the communication protocols for which the embodiment was configured and may further configure the system to specify the types of information including specifying certain information sources certain distributions of information to be received including periodic information distributions such as daily interest rate curves certain analysis such as valuation of financial transactions and other information and or analysis or other services.

To acquire data the embodiment s system also communicates with data sources including third party webpages and databases specified by the system or by a user and over the internet or other communication method through any of the protocols or other methods well known in the computer or telecommunication arts such as a hypertext transfer protocol http https FTP SFTP EDI or alternatively through a specified proprietary communication protocol. The embodiment s computers or other processors process the acquired information to develop information for distribution to users or storage for future use.

Many other examples are possible and apparent to those skilled in the art in light of this disclosure. Thus the example of a system in according to the present invention is not to be considered limiting.

The system stores the user s data and service selection and provides services as requested and the user pays for selected services completing the registration and subscription process .

The process may be initiated by an administrator or a user or automatically through an administrative module that schedules the process to execute on specified dates times periods or events. Events that would automatically initiate this process could include the availability of updated data monitored by the embodiment or by an administrator such as more recent interest rate or stock price data. Initiated automatically or by an administrator the embodiment obtains external data from one or more local or remote information sources specified in its configuration including default sources and adds the new information to its stored information. In certain embodiments remote information is sought if local sources are found to be inadequate.

If a user initiates the user may retrieve data the embodiment previously stored or obtain data from external sources modifying the data if the user so wishes or may enter new data directly in each case through the embodiment s data entry and modification module. User modifications may include addition of credit spreads for a specific issuer or a class of issuers which in certain embodiments may be obtained by the embodiment at the user s request. The user reviews the data to confirm it is satisfactory. If the data is unsatisfactory the user may enter new data or modify existing data until the data is satisfactory.

Once satisfactory data is obtained the embodiment s decomposition module decomposes the subject data into its component information units as described in greater detail in . As described in greater detail in the development module develops and extends the data previously acquired.

The embodiment stores acquired data and in certain embodiments may store developed and extended data for future use by users. The output module organizes formats and otherwise processes the acquired and developed data and in certain embodiments may produce charts and graphs. Certain embodiments include a conversion module to convert data charts and graphs into alternative formats such as converting a chart in SVG format to a PNG format for ease of display or distribution. The embodiment s distribution module contains a display module to display the resulting data including any charts or graphs in specified webpages that users and others may view. In certain embodiments users may request or subscribe for additional services from the distribution or other modules. These services may include data distributions requests for additional data or additional computations including comparisons among the data such as spreads between rates or across time or valuation including computation of prices and rates for specified transactions based on information provided by the user and or the information acquired or developed by embodiment or identification of certain conditions arising in the data such as rates or prices rising above or falling below specified thresholds. Certain of these services may require additional payment. These embodiments provide such services including if applicable distributing data charts or graphs by email or other distribution mechanism. Thereafter the processing stops.

In greater detail the data acquisition module for the embodiment shown in obtains data or other information in text numeric HTML XML or other structured or unstructured format compiled by or obtained from one or more third party sources such as by way of illustration US dollar interest rate data on the United States Federal Reserve s daily H15 page available at http www.federalreserve.gov releases h15 update h15upd.txt or Euro interest rate data available on the European Central Bank statistics page http www.ecb.europa.eu stats money yc html index.en.html.

Through one or more communications modules described below this module obtains data from the specified source or sources and downloads copies or otherwise transfers the data to one or more of the machines associated with the embodiment. See E SAMPLE CODE EXCERPTS 1 E 1 below Acquire Data From WebPage . In certain embodiments the module may first check whether the needed data exists locally and only acquire data from remote sources if it does not. The module may include selection means for a human user to select the sources from one or more menus or specification means for a user to specify and enter new sources of data.

In certain embodiments the data acquired comprises market rates prices or other levels in respect of one or more classes of transactions such as ten year interest rate swaps that are executed in sufficient size with sufficiently liquidity and otherwise with characteristics to be considered reliable benchmark transactions. The liquidity and other characteristics suggest that the benchmark levels reliably represent the market for similar transactions at the time the levels were observed. Accordingly rates or other levels for other transactions for which there is no comparably liquid market may be developed from levels for benchmark transactions with approximately similar terms. For example in the US the rate on a six and one half year interest rate swap a tenor for which the swap market is not very liquid should be somewhere between the rates on a five year and a seven year interest rate swap and generally closer to the latter. Because the markets for such five and seven year swaps are liquid the rate for a six and one half year interest rate swap interpolated or otherwise developed from contemporaneous rates on five and seven year swaps should generally be a more reliable indication of the market rate for a six and one half year swap than an actual contemporaneous rate observed on a six and one half year swap. The market for such a swap is sufficiently illiquid that an observed rate may well be unrepresentative.

In certain embodiments the identification methods provide means to identify structural information units by identifying an implicit table structure from data comprising text without explicit structure. See E SAMPLE CODE EXCERPTS E 2 through E 6 below Column Header Identification through Rate Identification and Parsing . To identify patterns in text such as those indicative of tables or other data structures embodiments may use regular expressions or other pattern matching techniques well known in the computer programming art. Identification means may include means to separate the source text into columns each column representing for example instruments observed on a single date. In certain embodiments the separation means begins with conversion of a HTML table to text with column delimiters. In other embodiments the source data is provided in XML according to a specified schema which is then used to identify the data and thus columns.

Parsing of unstructured text comprises steps that may include one or more or all of the following. Certain embodiments decomposition methods include means for parsing unstructured data comprising an implicit table structure containing rates or prices observed on different dates corresponding to different columns. contain an example of such data. The description below of these parsing means includes notes on simplification possible in the event of HTML XML or other structure on the data. contain an example of unstructured data converted from such data to have column delimiters and indentation indicators.

Having acquired information the decomposition process shown in for textual data acquired by the exemplary embodiment includes some or all of the following steps.

According to certain embodiments these patterns are specified wholly or partially by one or more regular expressions which are characteristic of lines that comprise the column headers for a table. See E SAMPLE CODE EXCERPTS E 2 below.

The approach to implicit structure identification from unstructured text without delimiters relies not on schema style sheets or structures external to the acquired text data but instead solely on the text data itself to derive the needed structure.

In certain embodiments the data decomposition module also includes data integrity and consistency verification methods to verify that the structure identified by the module is correct and useful. For example the module may provide one or more of the following through regular expression pattern matching or otherwise 

1 Checking means to check that the tokens into which the source data has been decomposed represent prices rates tenors descriptions or other relevant attributes 

2 Missing data identification means to identify when rates or prices are missing whether by blanks or non numeric notation such as n.a. or not available 

3 Consistent grouping means to ensure that benchmarks are grouped into consistent sets such a set of Treasury rates and a separate set of swap and Eurodollar rates and or

4 Substantive integrity verification means to determine whether the rate price or other information is reasonable and realistic and thus reliable.

The fourth module included in certain of the currently preferred embodiments is a data entry and modification module that provides means for one or more human users to modify the acquired benchmark price or rate information to enter new or different information and to delete existing information. The development module described below includes methods to develop a new curve based on the new or modified data in a manner generally similar to those methods applied to data acquired by the data acquisition module in the first instance. The data entry and modification module and the results of the development module applies to modified data is shown for one exemplary embodiment in .

The data development module includes means to derive inductively information such as zero prices zero rates and other information known to be useful in the financial art such as forward rates and 01s the latter comprising combinations of zero prices useful for determining market sensitivity.

In certain embodiments the data development module provides development and extension means that may include one or more or all of the steps in the following example. See also E SAMPLE CODE EXCERPTS 7 below Curve Interpolation . The exemplary embodiment shown in includes development methods for interest rates and related information. In other embodiments forward foreign exchange rates forward credit spreads or forward equity or commodity prices may be developed by the development module.

As is well known in the financial art the mechanics of development methods for interest rates is easier if 1 all the benchmark rates that pay coupons pay them at the same coupon frequency which is usually semiannual in the United States but may be annual or another frequency elsewhere and 2 there is a benchmark rate with a tenor equal to a single coupon period six months in the case of semiannual coupons. Without the first assumption a pro ration method is needed to compare coupon periods with different lengths. 

Under these two assumptions tenors on benchmark instruments may be divided into short tenors and long tenors by comparison with the length of a coupon period. The instruments with short tenors each provide a single payment facilitating the computation of a zero price. The instruments with long tenors have periodic payments requiring a development method to compute zero prices.

For ease of exposition the embodiment illustrated in includes benchmark instruments that meet these two assumptions. Thus the benchmark rates tenors are either shorter than the specified coupon period or are an integral number of coupon periods. Methods standard in the financial art address the case of other benchmark tenors including uneven benchmark tenors and coupon periods.

The result is an array of complete developed rate information for tenors not exceeding one coupon period comprising a complete developed short tenor rate array.

The embodiment produces a default base curve that the user may vary in two different ways. The user may load an alternative stored base curve for example from an earlier date through the embodiment s storage and retrieval module. In addition the user may modify through the embodiment s data entry and modification module the benchmark rates of the default base curve or the alternative base curve the user loaded and may then develop a new base curve through the embodiment s development module. The modified base curve may thus reflect credit spreads or other risk adjustments or other features the user believes appropriate.

Having determined an appropriate base curve the embodiment values the transaction or other series of cash flows the user enters. In the case of a specific transaction module the embodiment develops the cash flows of the transaction from the transaction terms the user has entered. The embodiment develops from the base curve zero prices corresponding to the dates of the transaction s cash flows. Once the transaction is valued the embodiment s output module displays select information including the transaction s value its cash flows and the corresponding zero prices on one or more webpages.

A user may request from the embodiment additional information analysis or other services such as graphs of the developed base curve used in valuation against other stored or current curves or risk measures for the transaction derived by varying the base curve or other market conditions used in the transaction s valuation to determine the effect on the transaction s value. Certain embodiments provide standard risk measures well known in the financial art including for one or more transactions delta gamma vega and theta or VaR also known as value at risk. Transactions the terms of which a user may enter may include investments such as stocks and bonds liabilities such as loans and other financings and derivatives including interest rate caps floors and swaptions and stock options and compound transactions with a plurality of long and short positions and more generally transactions comprising a plurality of future contingent and non contingent payments whether derived from financial or other business projects or from other sources. In addition to the valuation methods shown in and valuation means may include closed form analytic solutions such as Black Scholes option pricing formulae and numerical methods including both partial differential equation solution methods and Monte Carlo methods.

The user may request the embodiment to distribute through its distribution module to the user or others the additional information including the results of any additional analysis.

Embodiments may include any one or more of the modules described above and may include multiple modules of the same numbered type.

All excerpts are based on the Ruby programming language in which can act as a line termination character and indicates comment text. For the Ruby specification see http ruby std.netlab.jp draft spec download.html . Those skilled in the art of programming and finance will readily apprehend how these excerpts may be modified expanded and or replaced for example by writing comparable computer code in a different computer language such as Python Java or C or by adding new features or modifying features. Note that identification methods may be based on regular expressions as shown below. The texts of numbered comments appear beneath the code excerpts.

 bigTimeUnit year i an indicator of whether the tenor string measures months or years. Tenors are may be converted to months when possible a choice easy to modify

include Enumerable to have a sorting method based on an operator which will generally be based on months.

def initialize Line nil r nil d nil t nil tn nil int false The argument Line the current line to be parsed potentially containing rates and or a description of rates

 pComp Poly.new pComp.it 2000 name Constant Forward Rate Interpolation Class variables include a Poly object with maximum iterations set.

 cPeriod.to f .round ratePair 1 .getPeriods false Get the number of rates to interpolate and set certain basic rate information for the ending rate.

 ratePair 0 .zero ratePair 1 .proRate num2Interp ply 1 ratePair 0 .zero pComp.p ply disc pComp.nS add the principal payment at maturity to the final payment and then set the polysolver s polynomial instance variable to the array ply and solve for the constant forward discount disc.

def initialize r nil d nil t nil tn nil int false disc nil super r d t tn int call the superclass constructor discount disc if given a discount set the instance discount variable for zero computations end

 We now override certain methods from BasicFullRate with methods customized to ConstantForwardRate starting with the method getDisc. If the discount was set as part of intiailization return it otherwise it s a short rate and return the zero computed normally.

attr accessor 1DayCount sDayCount yLUnits ySUnits cPeriod perYear truePerYear proYear gotPeriods trueProYear gotHeaders diffShortConvention basis name

def getHeaders specific a method to construct headers intro specific specific intro dlm name columnHeader 

attr accessor type 1DayCount sDayCount yLUnits ySUnits short basis cPeriod perYear truePerYear proYear trueProYear proRate gotPeriods zero O1 adjO1 zRate fwd discount Included type here so we can set the type from a curve def initialize r nil d nil t nil tn nil int false z nil o1 nil 

self.class.getPeriods if self.class.gotPeriods if this is first instantiation initialize the Periods class instance variables

self.class.getHeaders if self.class.gotHeaders if this is first instantiation initialize the Headers class instance variables

COMMENT 1 The following method add adds a character string containing possible descriptive information to the stack represented by a DescStack instance. Note that previous items in the stack are deleted popped until the current indentation offset exceeds that of the last item in the stack. Thus the add method effectively removes strings from the stack until the last item is a higher topic or chapter heading having a smaller indent than the current line s text following the empirical rule that subtitles are further indented than titles. When the stack has been emptied until the top item is of higher order than the item in the current line we add the current line s text to the stack and the stack represents a path of headings to the item in the current line. By way of comparison were we building a tree model of a table of contents we would not pop but instead pass up to the tree to parent nodes until we reach a parent node that has a lower level of indentation and then insert the current line s text as a new child node under that parent node. Thus the add method may for example generate the description U.S. government securities Treasury constant maturities Nominal 1 year from the text data shown in . COMMENT 2 The signature of the following method interp is .interp Curve.rateAr. The method s primary consequence is a side effect that alters the current curve s attribute rateAr . Before this method is called the Curve.rateAr is an array of rates that represents only benchmark observable par rates from the market while after the method is called that array represents a more complete rate curve with a fuller range of zero and other rates and other information. Note that there is also an interp class method of each relevant Rate subclass which the Curve interp class calls as described below.

The operation of the method is illustrated in discussed above and may be summarized as follows. Starting with an array of benchmark rates the method partitions it between short rates which have maturities no later than one coupon period and long rates which have payment dates on integral multiples of coupon periods. First the method computes the rate information for the short rates using that all these rates are in effect zero coupon rates. The method then clones two copies of the long rates shifting one copy popping the other and zipping the two resulting arrays to make an array of consecutive rate pairs that can be interpolated and bootstrapped . The method bootstraps the pairs by starting with full rate information for the earlier rate in each pair and using that information to get the rate information for the later rate in the pair along with any new interpolated rates corresponding to intermediate dates. The method calls the relevant rate subclass interpolate method for each of the pairs of rates to fill in any missing intermediate rates and to compute full rate information including for example zero prices and O1s using the custom interpolate method associated with the relevant rate subclass. Thus the interpolation computations are delegated to the specific rate subclasses to which in certain embodiments users can add. Because the actual interpolation and bootstrapping of rate pairs is delegated to the relevant rate subclass these methods are encapsulated and polymorphic. Thus new interpolation and bootstrapping methods may be developed easily by creating new subclasses of the relevant rate classes which in an exemplary embodiment from which the code excerpts are taken is a class called BasicFullRate a subclass of a parent class called SimpleRate . The rate subclasses include the classes LinearParRate and ConstFwdRate.

COMMENT 3 All Rate classes inherit from a base rate class with robust basic information and basic methods such as day count pro ration and derivation of forward rates from discounts. In this exemplary embodiment the base rate class is called BasicFullRate and the illustrated rate subclass is called ConstantForwardRate . The ConstantForwardRate class includes as a class variable an instance of the Poly class. Poly is a class encapsulating any standard algorithm to solve for zeros of polynomials such as Newton s method as in the code excerpt where the maximum number of iterations is set to 2 000. One of Poly s methods called nS finds zeros of a specified polynomial through Newton s method or other appropriate method. An example of such a method appears in Press Teukolosky Vetterling Flannery 376 2ed Cambridge University Press 1992 . COMMENT 4 The interpolate method interp is a class method of each relevant Rate subclass as indicated in COMMENT 2 above. Here in the ConstantForwardRate class the ConstantForwardRate interpolate method takes a start rate and an end rate pair with full information only for the start rate and returns an array of the form start rate interpolated rates end rate with full rate information for all rates in the returned array. COMMENT 5 See COMMENT 3 above. Having obtained the par rate of the ending benchmark pro rated for day count this interpolate method constructs a polynomial comprising an array of coefficients of the various powers of the polynomial variable x from this rate. The method then calls the solve method nS of the Poly object pComp to compute the next constant discount factor 1 1 constant forward . The polynomial s constant term equals the product of the most recent 01 multiplied by that pro rated par rate minus 1 for the par value of the associated par bond. The other terms represent prorated coupon payments on each of the n num2Interp dates comprising the intervening coupon dates between the maturities of the first and last rates in the rate pair and a final coupon date on the date of the final principal payment at maturity equal to 1. In each such term the payment is partially discounted by the zero price associated with the maturity of the first rate in the rate pair which is the latest available zero price. The objective is to solve for the by assumption constant discount rate associated with the intervening period between those first and second benchmark rates in the rate pair. Each of these partially discounted payments is thus fully discounted when multiplied by x representing the constant discount rate to be computed raised to the appropriate power reflecting the remaining number of periods until that payment is made. Finally that latest available zero is added to adjust the coefficient of the highest order term in the polynomial reflecting the principal payment equal to 1 at maturity. The degree of the polynomial is thus n and the polynomial is 0 1 01 proRate sum zero constant discount i proRate zero constant discount n 1 where proRate is the par rate associated with the second benchmark rate in the rate pair pro rated for a coupon period and zero and 01 are the most recent zeros and O1s respectively and we are to solve for constant discount . The sum is from 1 to n since the initial or 0 order term is the constant term 1 01 proRate . Rewriting the polynomial as 1 01 proRate sum zero constant discount proRate zero constant discount This polynomial in effect says that the par value of a bond with the maturity date and coupon rate of the second benchmark which par value must necessarily equal 1 must also equal the sum of the present value of payments at the second benchmark rate through the maturity of the first benchmark the first summand plus the sum of a the present value of remaining payments at that rate through the maturity of the second benchmark and b the present value of the principal payment namely 1 at that maturity each such payment additionally discounted at the assumed constant discount rate the second and third summands respectively . COMMENT 6 If the variable num2Interp is greater than 1 there are new intervening rates which will be interpolated rates. Since we have solved for the constant forward discount generally equal to 1 1 constant forward rate day count and which will by assumption be the same for all the interpolated intervening rates we can create each interpolated rate by starting with a copy of the first benchmark rate from the original rate pair modifying certain of its properties such as to show that these rates are interpolated not original and then iteratively multiply the zero price for the most recently computed interpolated rate by the constant discount to get the zero price for the next interpolated rate. As is well known in the financial art once the zero price for a specified maturity is determined the zero par and forward rates and all other rate information may be determined from that zero price and zero prices for earlier maturities. COMMENT 7 The class variables specified in the method getPeriods represent the following quantities in order 1. 1DayCount equal to the day count convention for multi coupon long rates 2. sDayCount equal to the day count convention for single or zero coupon short rates 3. yLUnits equal to the number of units by default 12 months in a year for long rates 4. ySUnits equal to the number of units by default approx 11.84 months in a year for short rates reflecting the default day count convention for short rates 5. cPeriod equal to the number of units in a coupon period presumptively six months but for shorter rates a shorter period may override this 6. perYear equal to the number of coupon periods in a year two by default 7. truePerYear equal to the default number of coupon periods in a year which may differ from perYear in certain instances as a result of the day count 8. proYear equal to the portion of a year in a coupon period 9. trueProYear equal to the default portion of a year in a coupon period which may differ from proYear in certain instances as a result of the day count 10. gotPeriods a Boolean for which the call to attr accessor provides a default of nil automatically 11. diffShortConvention equal to true if the day count convention for short rates differs from that for long rates which is ordinarily the case and 12. basis which sets the default for the day count basis for a rate.

The currently preferred embodiments of the present invention provide several tiers of service each providing additional or different revenue. For example in certain exemplary embodiments these tiers may include one or more of the following.

1. A free service provided on webpages over the internet. This service provides limited information to all users anonymously and generates modest revenue through a small number of advertisements.

2. A more comprehensive free service also over the internet providing more extensive information. This service requires user registration including a valid user email address and certain other information and generates revenue through a small number of advertisements with a low profile that do not distract from the functionality of the service. 3. A subscription service based on registration and payment of a modest monthly or other periodic fee which is provided over the internet or other network. This service provides complete sets of information daily or otherwise periodically on detailed webpages with no advertisements. 4. For a small additional periodic fee a user can upgrade to a services that provides daily or other periodic emails to the user s registered email address. These emails include attachments that contain all the information provide on the webpages in a form that users may save easily and use freely on their local machines or networks in addition to downloads of current and possibly certain historic information directly from the embodiment s website. 5. For more significant periodic fees including a one time sign up fee a user can register for additional subscription services providing complete access to historic information that the embodiments store and can compare data from different times or markets or other criteria. Certain of these additional services may also allow users to enter their own data or other information or modify the system s information and to enter the terms of transactions which the users may then value or risk manage based on the embodiment s data and other information and the embodiment s analytic methods as well as any information the users enter. 6. For more significant periodic fees including a one time sign up fee one or more users can register for other additional subscription services providing risk management services such as a value at risk service for one or more user or other portfolios comprising

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced by other than the described embodiments which are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation. Those skilled in the art will have no difficulty devising obvious variations and enhancements of the invention all of which are intended to fall within the scope of aspects of the invention which I may claim.

