---

title: Synchronizing charging for telecommunication service with notification of applicable tariff
abstract: A charging system () for a telecommunications service comprises an interface () and a tariff controller (). The interface () is configured to receive tariff information (-) regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area (). The tariff controller () is configured to utilize the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area () only after confirmation has been received (-) that notification regarding the tariff information has been received by a node () of a radio access network () which serves the geographical area (). As such, the tariff controller () provides notification-synchronized charging implementation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071705&OS=09071705&RS=09071705
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 09071705
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20130619
---
For many products and or services a customer or subscriber desires that a financial charge for the product service be satisfied or paid from one or more of accounts e.g. asset accounts owned by the customer or authorized for the customer s use. The debiting of the appropriate accounts or reserving of assets in the appropriate accounts is generally handled by a charging system.

Examples of online charging systems OCS and various techniques for use therewith are described in one or more of the following all of which are incorporated herein by reference entirely 

 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 258 990 entitled REAL TIME FLEXIBLE ACCOUNT SELECTION FOR COMMUNICATIONS 

 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 538 000 entitled TERMINAL INITIATED OVERRIDE OF CHARGING SYSTEM RULES 

 4 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 538 340 entitled TELECOMMUNICATIONS CHARGING WITH EXTERNALLY CONTROLLED ACCOUNT SELECTION 

 5 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 896 417 entitled CHARGING SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

A charging system generally determines or computes an amount to be debited or deducted from a customer account for use of one or more services. The customer account may be either a prepaid account or a postpaid account. The amount of the debit or deduction depends at least in part on a cost or tariff associated with the service at the particular time of use of the service. As used herein tariff means the cost either per access or per unit of resource e.g. time or bandwidth or rate or fee assessed for use of a telecommunications service.

The tariff for a service may depend on several factors such as location of the customer. Moreover the tariff for a telecommunications service likely changes from time to time and may even change quite rapidly e.g. at hourly increments . A charging system is typically notified or programmed in advance that a tariff change is to occur. For example the charging system may be notified that a planned implementation time Tthe tariff for customers of a certain service is to change from tariff R to tariff R . When the internal clock of the charging system reaches time T the tariff for the affected customers changes from tariff R to tariff R . Thereafter the affected customers are charged for use of the service in accordance with the tariff R .

For some services the tariff or change in tariff is pre announced to customers or users via a notification message. Moreover in some instances and for some services the customers may be able to contact an operator service provider or agent for the operator or service provider and inquire of the applicable tariff prior to actual usage by the customer of the service. This enables the customer to be better informed regarding the anticipated cost of the service before actual usage. For example a customer or subscriber may be able to send an inquiry using the customer s mobile device e.g. mobile terminal or user equipment or cell phone to ascertain a quote for the applicable tariff for access to the service. Upon receipt of the tariff information to the customer s mobile device the customer may intelligently determine whether the use of the quoted tariff is consistent with the customer s budget and preferences before using the service.

An example implementation of the foregoing has been termed Yield Optimization . Yield Optimization means that a subscriber may obtain dynamic pricing on used service. The used service may be e.g. making a phone call sending a short message service text SMS or downloading a movie for examples. A Yield Optimization discount may be related to factors such as location and time. Before using a service the customer may check the discount and see if the amount level of the discount and thus the current resulting tariff is appealing or not.

For customers or subscribers having mobile terminals or the like the notification of a tariff e.g. of a tariff change such as the change from tariff R to tariff R may take considerable time and thus notifications or inquiry responses regarding the tariff change may reach the customer considerably after the planned implementation time T. The tariff notifications may involve delivery of notifications to thousands or even ten thousands of cells. The tariff notifications are typically delivered to nodes e.g. base station controllers or radio network controllers of a radio access network that control radio base stations that serve the cells or in some network such as Long Term Evolution LTE to the very base stations themselves. The nodes responsible for the served cells may then broadcast or otherwise make available the tariff notifications to the wireless terminals e.g. cell phones user equipments mobile devices that are served by the nodes.

The telecommunications and other signaling associated with such notification may require many minutes even tens of minutes to reach the base stations handling more lately notified cells. In general a mean value for a broadcast distribution latency value would be between 0.5 seconds and 1.5 seconds depending on the base station type. The speed of the broadcast delivery also depends on the number of threads for the provisioning. Several broadcast jobs could be executed simultaneously. Nevertheless the last broadcasted message could be many minutes delayed.

In a lately notified cell a customer making access to the affected service may be caught in a time gap after the planned implementation time Tbut before notification of the tariff change which may result in the customer accessing the service with inaccurate tariff information. This situation may not be acceptable to the customer or desirable from the standpoint of customer relations particularly if the change from tariff R to tariff R happened to be an increase.

Thus it should be understood that a broadcasted message carrying a tariff notification may show an old discount or tariff e.g. previous hour value that is not valid any longer. But in the rating logic of the charging system the new discount or new tariff already has already been loaded and will be used in the rating of the selected service at and after the planned implementation time Tx regardless of the gap between the planned implementation time and the notification. So a mismatch in time could occur between the new discount or new tariff for the rating logic and the broadcasted discount or tariff stored in the node or server e.g. the base station that is consulted by the customer. Whether the gap turns out to be detrimental or not may depend on how soon the cell serving the customer is provided with the updated notification regarding the new tariff R . The less fortunate customers are those in cells which due to location or other factor may be late or even last cells to be updated and thus the tariff change may be broadcasted too late and thus provided with incorrect tariff information.

In one of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a charging system for a telecommunications service. The charging system comprises an interface and a tariff controller. The interface is configured to receive tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area. The tariff controller is configured to utilize the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that notification regarding the tariff information has been received by a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode the interface is configured to receive a message that indicates that the confirmation has been received.

In an example embodiment and mode the geographical area comprises wireless terminals served by a cell of the radio access network and the confirmation comprises confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node which serves the cell.

In an example embodiment and mode the tariff controller is provided with the tariff information for plural geographical areas and on an individual geographical area basis the tariff controller is configured to utilize the tariff information in conjunction with the charging for use of the telecommunications service by the customer in the individual geographical area only after the confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the individual geographical area.

In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein comprises a method of operating a telecommunications service. The method comprises 1 providing tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area to a tariff controller 2 providing notification regarding the tariff information to a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area and 3 the tariff controller utilizing the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode the geographical area comprises wireless terminals served by a cell of the radio access network and the confirmation comprises confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node which serves the cell.

In an example embodiment and mode the tariff information concerns plural geographical areas served by corresponding plural nodes and the method further comprises providing notification regarding the tariff information to the plural corresponding nodes of a radio access network which serve the plural geographical areas the tariff controller on an individual geographical area basis and for each of the plural geographical areas utilizing the tariff information in conjunction with the charging for use of the telecommunications service by customer s in the individual geographical area only after the confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the corresponding node of the radio access network which serves the corresponding individual geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode the method further comprises i providing the tariff information to a communications server ii using the communications server for providing the notification regarding the tariff information to the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area and iii the communications server receiving the confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area iv upon receiving the confirmation the communications server a providing notification of the confirmation to the tariff controller and b updating a communications server database with the tariff information upon receiving the confirmation and thereafter c using the tariff information for responding to a tariff inquiry from the geographical area.

In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a communications server comprising a processor configured to i receive tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area ii provide notification regarding the tariff information to the node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area iii receive confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area and thereafter iv provide notification of the confirmation to a tariff controller which utilizes the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer of the geographical area only after the notification of the confirmation has been received.

In an example embodiment and mode the communications server comprises a communications server database and the processor is further configured to update the communications server database with the tariff information upon receiving the confirmation so that thereafter the communications server uses the tariff information for responding to a tariff inquiry from the geographical area.

In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a method in a charging system for a telecommunications service. The method comprises receiving tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area and utilizing the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that notification regarding the tariff information has been received by a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode the method further comprises receiving a message that indicates that the confirmation has been received.

In an example embodiment and mode the geographical area comprises wireless terminals served by a cell of the radio access network and the confirmation comprises confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node which serves the cell.

In an example embodiment and mode the method further comprises receiving the tariff information for plural geographical areas and wherein on an individual geographical area basis utilizing the tariff information in conjunction with the charging for use of the telecommunications service by the customer in the individual geographical area only after the confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the individual geographical area.

In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a telecommunications service comprising a tariff controller and a node of a radio access network. The tariff controller is configured to receive tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area. The node of the radio access network serves the geographical area receives the notification regarding the tariff information. The tariff controller is further configured to utilize the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode the geographical area comprises wireless terminals served by a cell of the radio access network and the confirmation comprises confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node which serves the cell.

In an example embodiment and mode the tariff information concerns plural geographical areas served by corresponding plural nodes and the tariff controller is configured to receive notification regarding the tariff information to the plural corresponding nodes of a radio access network which serve the plural geographical areas. The tariff controller on an individual geographical area basis and for each of the plural geographical areas is configured to utilize the tariff information in conjunction with the charging for use of the telecommunications service by customer s in the individual geographical area only after the confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the corresponding node of the radio access network which serves the corresponding individual geographical area.

In an example embodiment and mode communications server is configured i to receive the tariff information ii to provide the notification regarding the tariff information to the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area iii to receive the confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area and iv upon receiving the confirmation configured to a provide notification of the confirmation to the tariff controller b update a communications server database with the tariff information upon receiving the confirmation and thereafter c using the tariff information for responding to a tariff inquiry from the geographical area.

In another of its aspects the technology disclosed herein concerns a method of operating a communications server. The method comprises receiving tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area providing notification regarding the tariff information to the node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area receiving confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area and thereafter providing notification of the confirmation to a tariff controller which utilizes the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer of the geographical area only after the notification of the confirmation has been received.

In an example embodiment and mode the method further comprises updating a communications server database with the tariff information upon receiving the confirmation so that thereafter the communications server uses the tariff information for responding to a tariff inquiry from the geographical area.

In the following description for purposes of explanation and not limitation specific details are set forth such as particular architectures interfaces techniques etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the technology disclosed herein. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the technology disclosed herein may be practiced in other embodiments that depart from these specific details. That is those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the technology disclosed herein and are included within its spirit and scope. In some instances detailed descriptions of well known devices circuits and methods are omitted so as not to obscure the description of the technology disclosed herein with unnecessary detail. All statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the technology disclosed herein as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Thus for example it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that block diagrams herein can represent conceptual views of illustrative circuitry or other functional units embodying the principles of the technology. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts him and state transition diagrams pseudocode and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

The functions of the various elements including functional blocks including but not limited to those labeled or described as computer processor or controller may be provided through the use of hardware such as circuit hardware and or hardware capable of executing software in the form of non transient coded instructions stored on non transient computer readable medium. Thus such functions and illustrated functional blocks are to be understood as being either hardware implemented and or computer implemented and thus machine implemented.

In terms of hardware implementation the functional blocks may include or encompass without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware reduced instruction set processor hardware e.g. digital or analog circuitry including but not limited to application specific integrated circuit s ASIC and or field programmable gate array s FPGA s and where appropriate state machines capable of performing such functions.

In terms of computer implementation a computer is generally understood to comprise one or more processors or one or more controllers and the terms computer and processor and controller may be employed interchangeably herein. When provided by a computer or processor or controller the functions may be provided by a single dedicated computer or processor or controller by a single shared computer or processor or controller or by a plurality of individual computers or processors or controllers some of which may be shared or distributed. Moreover use of the term processor or controller shall also be construed to refer to other hardware capable of performing such functions and or executing software such as the example hardware recited above.

In an example embodiment dynamic tariff engine DTE comprises both dynamic tariff core and tariff gateway . The dynamic tariff core computes is configured with or is inputted with tariff information for a service. The tariff information is associated with a service and may also be specified with a particular geographical area which has access to the service e.g. a set or sub set of service participants or recipients. The geographical area may be specified for example by a cell of the radio access network . The tariff gateway is configured to transmit e.g. the tariff information to other servers or systems e.g. to customer communication center server CCC and to charging system as herein described.

In an example embodiment charging system comprises one or more service data points SDPs . The person skilled in the art understands that the charging system may comprise other nodes besides SDPs such as nodes which are known as Account Information and Refill Server AIR Charging Control Node CCN Charging data Reporting System CRS Customer Management System Voucher Server VS as examples. In view of its capabilities as described herein charging system is known as a charging system having notification synchronized charging implementation. As shown in more detail in the example service data point SDP of charging system comprises charging system tariff database charging interface and tariff controller . In some contexts such as the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP either or both of the service data point SDP and its tariff controller may also be referred to as a rating engine as described for example in 3GPP TS 02.24 Description of Charge Advice Information CAI 3GPP TS 02.60 General Packet Radio Service 3GPP TS 02.16 International Mobile Station Equipment Identities IMEI which is incorporated herein by reference. In general a rating engine is the entity or node which determines the rate for a service by using a tariff database such as charging system tariff database . The charging system tariff database may be external to the service data point SDP although generally each of the possible plural service data points SDPs comprising the charging system has its own associated charging system tariff database . In the example embodiment shown in the charging system tariff database comprises or is actually included in a service data point SDP .

The customer communication center server CCC is configured to be suitable for use with the notification synchronized charging system . In an example embodiment customer communication center server CCC comprises interface a communications processor known as a cell broadcast center CBC and communications server tariff database . The cell broadcast center CBC may also take the name of customer communication processor .

The customer communication center server CCC communicates with the dynamic tariff engine DTE through CCC interface . The CCC interface is connected to cell broadcast center CBC to enable cell broadcast center CBC to act on messages received from the dynamic tariff engine DTE . The cell broadcast center CBC has access to communications server tariff database which at least in the illustrated embodiment is shown as being within customer communication center server CCC . The cell broadcast center CBC also communicates through an unillustrated Internet Protocol IP interface with access networks and through an unillustrated Broadcast Message Synchronization protocol BMSP interface with the service data point SDP of the charging system .

The cell broadcast center CBC communicates using Internet Protocol IP with access networks e.g. through core network to radio access network and to radio network nodes which control manage or supervise radio base stations e.g. base station controllers or radio network controllers or which in some networks such as Long Term Evolution LTE are the base stations themselves. further depicts a geographical area which is wirelessly served by radio base stations which are controlled by or comprise the radio network nodes . also shows a wireless terminal of a customer which is located in geographical area and which communicates using radio frequencies across a radio or air interface with one or more radio base stations of radio access network .

As used herein geographical area may be one or more radio cells or one or more cellular location areas or one or more wireless service areas. The size of a geographical area may vary such that different geographical areas may have different sizes or coverage extent. The size of extent of a geographical area may depend for example on number power or other parameter of radio base stations that are controlled by a respective radio access node.

As shown in charging system comprises interface and tariff controller . As is described herein interface receives tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area . The tariff controller utilizes the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that notification regarding the tariff information has been received by a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area . As such the tariff controller is said to have or implement notification synchronized charging .

The method of operating a communications system of the method of operating a communications server of and the method of operating a charging system of are all understood in overall context of the example method comprising acts or steps shown in .

Act comprises the dynamic tariff engine core calculating or otherwise determining a new tariff for at least one geographical area e.g. for at least one cell of radio access network as well a time of implementation for the new tariff. As subsequently described in more detail herein act may comprise determining a new tariff for plural geographical areas and respective implementation times for the plural geographical areas . Act also represents the dynamic tariff engine core sending the new tariff and corresponding implementation time s to the dynamic tariff engine gateway .

The first horizontal broken line of occurring after act depicts beginning of a phase of operation for pre provisioning of a cell broadcast message. Act comprises transmission of a pre provisioning cell broadcast message which includes the new tariff the new tariff location and the new tariff implementation time. The pre provisioning cell broadcast message of act is transmitted from dynamic tariff engine gateway to CBC processor of customer communication server . Act also comprises creation by CBC processor of a broadcast message also known as a new tariff commencement message that relates to the location of the new tariff e.g. geographical area the new tariff amount and time of implementation of the new tariff. Act comprises the CBC processor sending back to the dynamic tariff engine DTE a response message which verifies delivery of the pre provisioning broadcast message. The transmissions of act and act may be accomplished using any suitable protocol such as e.g. a HTTP REST protocol.

The second horizontal broken line of occurring after act depicts beginning of a phase of operation for pre provisioning of a tariff. Act comprises the transmission of a pre provisioning tariff message which includes the new tariff the new tariff location and the new tariff implementation time. The pre provisioning tariff message of act is transmitted from dynamic tariff engine gateway to tariff controller of charging system . The transmission of act may be accomplished using the Discount Administration Protocol DAP . Act thus corresponds to act of in providing tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area to tariff controller and to act of in the tariff controller receiving tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area .

Act comprises the tariff controller sending back to the dynamic tariff engine DTE using the DAP protocol a response message which verifies delivery of the pre provisioning tariff message. It should be understood that the pre provisioning tariff message of act is transmitted to tariff controller considerably before the new tariff implementation time e.g. perhaps days before the new tariff implementation time.

Also in the phase of pre provisioning of the tariff act comprises transmission of a second pre provisioning tariff message which includes the new tariff the new tariff location and the new tariff implementation time. The second pre provisioning tariff message of act is transmitted from dynamic tariff engine gateway to communications server database of customer communication server . The transmission of act may be accomplished using the Discount Administration Protocol DAP . Act thus corresponds to act of in that the communications server receives tariff information regarding a telecommunications service for a geographical area .

Act comprises the communications server database sending back to the dynamic tariff engine DTE using the DAP protocol a response message which verifies delivery of the second pre provisioning tariff message.

The third horizontal broken line of occurring after act depicts beginning of a phase of operation for scheduling cell broadcast. Act of the scheduling cell broadcast phase depicts the cell broadcast module CBC e.g. CBC processor scheduling a broadcast message also known as the new tariff commencement message for the radio network node s .

The fourth horizontal broken line of occurring after act depicts a phase of real time provisioning of the scheduled cell broadcast message also known as the new tariff commencement message. Act of the real time provisioning phase comprises the CBC processor sending at the new tariff implementation time via. IP protocol the new tariff commencement message to the radio network node s affected by the new tariff. Since the new tariff commencement message is sent at the new tariff implementation time it is also known as the real time new tariff commencement message or real time provisioning of cell broadcast message. The real time new tariff commencement message is addressed to the appropriate radio network node s and includes the new tariff amount. The real time new tariff commencement message is said to be a broadcast message in the sense that in at least some radio access networks the real time new tariff commencement message may be received by a control node such as a BSC node or a RNC node and is broadcast or distributed to plural base stations and thus plural geographical areas controlled thereby. Act thus corresponds to act of and act of in providing notification regarding the tariff information to a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area .

Act depicts the BSC nodes RNC nodes or the base station nodes sending a response message back to CBC processor using IP protocol for verifying receipt of the real time new tariff commencement message. Act thus corresponds to act in that the communications server receives confirmation that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the node of the radio access network which serves the geographical area .

Upon receipt of the response or receipt verification message of act from a geographical area as act the CBC processor sends a confirmation of notification message for that verifying geographical area to tariff controller . The confirmation or notification message comprises a notification to the tariff controller that the cell broadcast message also known as the new tariff commencement message has been delivered to the radio network node responsible for the geographical area . Act thus corresponds to act in that the communications server provides notification of the confirmation to tariff controller . Act is also reference in act of in that the charging system utilizes the tariff information in conjunction with charging for use of the telecommunications service by a customer in the geographical area only after confirmation has been received that notification regarding the tariff information has been received by a node of a radio access network which serves the geographical area .

Act comprises the tariff controller sending an acknowledgement to CBC processor that the confirmation of notification message of act has been received.

Both the confirmation of notification message of act and the acknowledgement message of act may be implemented using a Broadcast Message Synchronization protocol BMSP . For example the confirmation of notification message of act and the acknowledgement message of act may be of a HTTP REST protocol that includes parameters such as discountType which relates to the new tariff amount locationIdentity which relates to the geographical area and startTime which relates to the new tariff implementation time for the distributed cell broadcast message of act which was acknowledged as act .

Act comprises the CBC processor of the customer communication server updating its communications server database with the tariff information. Act comprises the communications server database acknowledging to CBC processor its receipt of the updated tariff information. Act thus corresponds to act wherein the customer communication server updates communications server database with the tariff information upon receiving the confirmation so that thereafter the communications server uses the tariff information for responding to a tariff inquiry from the geographical area .

Act of comprises CBC processor providing notification regarding the tariff information to the plural corresponding nodes of radio access network which serve the plural geographical areas e.g. plural geographical areas of for example. Act corresponds to act of e.g. to the sending of the real time new tariff commencement message or real time provisioning of cell broadcast message. For geographical area the notification of act corresponds to act of for geographical area the notification of act corresponds to act of . As shown in it takes longer for the notification of act to reach the radio network node for geographical area than for the notification of act to reach the radio network node for geographical area . The radio network node and radio network nodes return their respective acknowledgements as acts and respectively with the acknowledgement of act arriving at CBC processor later than the acknowledgement of act .

Act of comprises the tariff controller on an individual geographical area basis and for each of the plural geographical areas and utilizing the tariff information in conjunction with the charging for use of the telecommunications service by customer s in the individual geographical area. The tariff controller utilizes the tariff information only after the confirmation has been received that the notification regarding the tariff information has been received by the corresponding node of the radio access network which serves the corresponding individual geographical area. In other words for geographical area the tariff controller does not use the new tariff information for geographical area until after the tariff controller has received the confirmation of notification message of act e.g. at time Tin . Similarly but separately the controller does not use the new tariff information for geographical area until after the tariff controller has received the confirmation of notification message of act e.g. at time Tin . Thus the charging implementation of the new tariff for each geographical area is individually synchronized with notification of the new tariff to the respective geographical areas . With this notification synchronized charging implementation functionality any mismatch between the rated discount and the broadcasted message to the respective geographical area will be very small e.g. only a few seconds or so and certainly much less than some of the time lags illustrated by the prior art practice of .

As is understood in the art core network detects and monitors activity and or traffic in the core network analyzes the activity and or traffic and when appropriate sends charging request messages towards the charging system . Thus the core network may comprise certain charging clients which send the charging request messages to charging system over appropriate charging interfaces

The charging system may comprise other units and or functionalities as well as other charging activities such as those illustrated in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 464 397 entitled PRODUCT CENTRIC CHARGING SYSTEM AND METHOD and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 538 340 entitled TELECOMMUNICATIONS CHARGING WITH EXTERNALLY CONTROLLED ACCOUNT SELECTION both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In an example embodiment and as depicted by way of example in the customer communication server and the charging system may be realized by a machine platform. The terminology machine platform is a way of describing how the functional units of customer communication server and charging system may be implemented or realized by machine. The machine platform can take any of several forms such as for example logic processing circuitry such as but not limited to electronic circuitry in the form of a computer implementation platform or a hardware circuit platform. Moreover the functionalities of customer communication server and charging system may be implemented by a computer program product stored on non transient media which when executed by a processor executes or performs actions including those described herein including but not limited to the actions of . and .

The Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is an application protocol for distributed collaborative hypermedia information systems. Representational State Transfer REST is a style of software architecture for distributed systems such as the World Wide Web. REST has emerged as a predominant web API design model. REST style architectures conventionally consist of clients and servers.

Although the description above contains many specificities these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the technology disclosed herein but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of the technology disclosed herein. Thus the scope of the technology disclosed herein should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. Therefore it will be appreciated that the scope of the technology disclosed herein fully encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the technology disclosed herein is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described preferred embodiment that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the technology disclosed herein for it to be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore no element component or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

