---

title: Cleaner with computer monitoring
abstract: A cleaning application that can monitor one or more characteristics of a computer, and that can clean at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer, is provided. The cleaning application can include a cleaning module. The cleaning module can monitor one or more characteristics of the computer. The cleaning module can further detect an occurrence of pre-defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics. The cleaning module can further perform a pre-defined action in response to the pre-defined criteria. The pre-defined action can include cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry associated with the computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256625&OS=09256625&RS=09256625
owner: Piriform Ltd.
number: 09256625
owner_city: Nicosia
owner_country: CY
publication_date: 20130424
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate generally to computer systems and more particularly to registry and file cleaning computer systems.

A computer contains one or more computer files i.e. files where a file is a resource that stores data that can be accessed by a computer program that is executed within the computer. A computer also contains a registry where a registry is a hierarchical database that is stored on the computer and stores configuration settings and options for the computer.

During the lifetime of a computer thousands of files can end up being stored on the computer. Many of these files may never be used by any software modules that are executed within the computer. Thus these files are unused files that merely take up storage space of the computer and potentially slow down the processing speed of the computer. A file cleaning software module when executed on the computer can identify unused files and delete them from the computer.

Similarly during the lifetime of the computer a registry can become bloated with numerous configuration entries. In certain cases many of the entries are not used by any computer program. For example when a new version of a computer program is installed on the computer the registry may be updated to contain a new entry corresponding to the new version. However the old entry corresponding to the older version may not be deleted. Thus a large number of entries in the registry may be superfluous. Similar to a file cleaning software module a registry cleaning software module when executed on the computer can identify unused entries in a registry and delete them from the registry.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method includes monitoring by a cleaning module executed on a computer one or more characteristics of the computer. The method further includes detecting by the cleaning module an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer. The method further includes performing by the cleaning module a pre defined action on the computer.

According to another embodiment an apparatus includes a memory configured to store a cleaning module. The apparatus further includes a processor configured to execute the cleaning module stored on the memory. The processor is further configured when executing the cleaning module stored on the memory to monitor one or more characteristics of a computer detect an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer and perform a pre defined action on the computer.

According to another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium includes a computer program stored thereon that when executed by a processor causes the processor to implement a method. The method includes monitoring one or more characteristics of a computer. The method further includes detecting an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer. The method further includes performing a pre defined action on the computer.

According to another embodiment an apparatus includes means for monitoring one or more characteristics of a computer. The apparatus further includes means for detecting an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer. The apparatus further includes means for performing a pre defined action on the computer.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following detailed description of the embodiments of a method apparatus system and computer readable medium as represented in the attached figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of selected embodiments of the invention.

The features structures or characteristics of the invention described throughout this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. For example the usage of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment another embodiment an alternative embodiment an alternate embodiment certain embodiments some embodiments different embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification refers to the fact that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment may be included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment another embodiment an alternative embodiment an alternate embodiment in certain embodiments in some embodiments in other embodiments in different embodiments or other similar language throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of embodiments and the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

A computer as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is any programmable machine that receives input automatically stores and manipulates data and provides output. A computer program is any sequence of instructions written to perform a specific task on a computer and has an executable form that a computer typically through the use of a processor can use to execute the instructions. A computer module software module or module is any computer program or a portion thereof that encapsulates related functions. A computer application software application or application is any collection of computer programs and or modules. A computer network or network is any collection of computers interconnected by communication channels that facilitate communication among the computers. A browser application browser web browser application web browser Internet browser application or Internet browser is an application configured to retrieve present and traverse information resources over the Internet such as the World Wide Web. Examples of a browser application include Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Opera and Google Chrome .

In addition a service or web service as understood by one of ordinary skill in the art is a module or application designed to support interoperable computer to computer interaction over a network. A service can have an interface described in a computer processable format. A computer can interact with a service by sending messages over a network protocol. Examples of services are Big Web services and RESTful services. Big Web services are services that follow a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standard and use Extensible Markup Language XML messages. RESTful services are services that utilize a Representational State Transfer REST style of software architecture where clients are separate from servers by a uniform interface.

According to an embodiment of the invention a cleaning application can monitor one or more characteristics of a computer such as a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files. The cleaning application can further detect an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics such as the size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold. Upon this detection the cleaning application can perform a pre defined action on the computer. For example upon detecting that the size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold the cleaning application can clean at least one of one or more files of the computer or a registry of the computer. Specifics of the file cleaning and registry cleaning are described below in greater detail. The cleaning application can include a cleaning module and can optionally also include an administrative cleaning module.

The system can also include network . Network can be any type of network that is known in the art such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a personal area network PAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a global area network GAN a storage area network SAN a virtual private network VPN a wireless network a wireless LAN a HomePNA a power line communication network a G.hn network a Bluetooth network an optical fiber network an Ethernet network an active networking network a client server network a peer to peer network a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network a tree network or a hierarchical topology network. According to the embodiment computer can establish a connection with any of computers and over network using a network protocol. The network protocol can be any communication protocol that is known in the art such as an Internet Protocol IP a Transmission Control Protocol TCP a User Datagram Protocol UDP an Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP a Post Office Protocol POP a File Transfer Protocol FTP or an Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP . According to an embodiment the network protocol can be a secured network protocol and the connection between computer and any of computers and can be a secured connection. In the embodiment illustrated in computer can establish a connection with the three computers in the system i.e. computers and over network . However this is merely an example and in alternate embodiments a computer can establish a connection with any number of computers over a network. Further in alternate embodiments network can be omitted and computers and can be separate and unconnected to each other.

According to the embodiment computer can include administrator cleaning module . Administrator cleaning module is a module that is executed by computer . Administrator cleaning module can remotely deploy one or more cleaning modules such as cleaning modules and to computers and over network . Administrator cleaning module can also remotely manage file and registry cleaning performed by the deployed one or more cleaning modules. In certain embodiments the system does not include administrator cleaning module .

Also according to the embodiment computer can include cleaning module computer can include cleaning module and computer can include cleaning module . Cleaning modules and are each modules that are executed by computers and respectively. Cleaning modules and can each perform file and registry cleaning on computers and respectively. More specifically cleaning modules and can each monitor one or more characteristics of their respective computer such as a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files and perform a pre defined action in response to a detection of an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics where the pre defined action can include cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the respective computer and where the pre defined criteria can include the size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold. In certain embodiments the file and registry cleaning can be managed by administrator cleaning module . However in embodiments where administrator cleaning module is omitted from the system cleaning modules and can manage their own respective file and registry cleaning. The functionality of cleaning modules and is described below in greater detail in relation to .

A computer readable medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by processor . A computer readable medium may include both a volatile and nonvolatile medium a removable and non removable medium and a storage medium. A storage medium may include RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . Display can display information to the user. A keyboard and a cursor control device such as a computer mouse can also be operatively coupled to bus to enable the user to interface with apparatus .

According to one embodiment memory can store software modules that may provide functionality when executed by processor . The modules can include cleaning module . Cleaning module can monitor one or more characteristics of the apparatus such as a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files and perform a pre defined action in response to a detection of an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics where the pre defined action can include cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the apparatus and where the pre defined criteria can include the size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold. According to the embodiment the modules can also include an operating system as well as other functional modules . Operating system can provide an operating system functionality for apparatus . Apparatus can also be part of a larger system. Thus apparatus can include one or more additional functional modules to include additional functionality for the system.

Processor can also be operatively coupled via bus to a database . Database can store data in an integrated collection of logically related records or files. Database can be an operational database an analytical database a data warehouse a distributed database an end user database an external database a navigational database an in memory database a document oriented database a real time database a relational database an object oriented database or any other database known in the art.

According to the embodiment the method begins and at step one or more characteristics of a computer are monitored. In certain embodiments the one or more characteristics of the computer can include at least one of a size of file storage space for one or more files a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application a number of settings associated with an application a size of an individual file a size of a trash area associated with an email account a number of registry values of a registry or a number of files. In certain embodiments the monitoring of the one or more characteristics of the computer further includes analyzing the one or more characteristics of the computer. Further in some of those embodiments the analyzing of the one or more characteristics of the computer further includes identifying both the one or more characteristics currently present on the computer and the one or more characteristics present if the cleaning module cleaned one or more files and or a registry of the computer. Further in certain embodiments the monitoring the one or more characteristics of the computer can further include periodically monitoring the one or more characteristics based on a time duration value where the time duration value defines a time duration between periodic instances of monitoring the computer. The method then proceeds to step .

At step an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer is detected. In certain embodiments the pre defined criteria includes at least one of a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of settings associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of an individual file saved by cleaning the individual file exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of a trash area associated with an email account exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of registry values of a registry exceeding a pre defined threshold or a number of files exceeding a pre defined threshold. The method then proceeds to step .

At step a pre defined action is performed on the computer. In certain embodiments the pre defined action is one of automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and notifying a user of the computer of the automatic cleaning automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer or prompting the user of the computer to clean at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer in response to receiving an instruction to clean from the user of the computer. In certain embodiments the prompting the user of the computer further includes displaying a window within a user interface where the window prompts the user of the computer to clean at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer.

In certain embodiments the cleaning is based on an instruction and a cleaning rule set. In some of these embodiments the cleaning module includes one or more cleaning rules the cleaning rule includes one or more cleaning rule identities each cleaning rule identity corresponds to a unique cleaning rule and a cleaning rule includes a set of one or more parameters for cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer. Further in some of these embodiments each cleaning rule identity corresponds to either a system cleaning rule an application cleaning rule or a registry cleaning rule. Even further in some of these embodiments the cleaning one or more files or a registry of the computer further includes for each cleaning rule that corresponds to each cleaning rule identity at least one of the following removing one or more files from the computer removing data from one or more files removing one or more registry entries from the computer or removing data from one or more registry entries based on the cleaning rule. In certain embodiments one or more databases of the computer can also be cleaned where the cleaning is based on an instruction to clean one or more databases and a cleaning rule set. Further in some of these embodiments one or more browser applications of the computer can be optimized where the optimizing is based on an instruction to optimize one or more browser applications and a cleaning rule set. The cleaning of the one or more files of the computer and the cleaning of the registry of the computer are each further described below in greater detail. After step the method ends.

In the embodiment the flow begins and at step a cleaning module defines a pre defined action for a computer. According to the embodiment the cleaning module defines the pre defined action for the computer so that upon a detection of an occurrence of pre defined criteria the pre defined action can be performed. In certain embodiments the pre defined action can be defined by a user of the cleaning module where the user selects an action from a list of actions displayed within a user interface of the cleaning module. An example of a user interface of the cleaning module is described in greater detail in relation to .

In certain embodiments the pre defined action is one of a automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and notifying a user of the computer of the automatic cleaning b automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer or c prompting the user of the computer to clean at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer in response to receiving an instruction to clean from the user of the computer. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module defines a threshold for a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files. As one of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate this is an example of criteria that can be defined involving one or more characteristics of the computer according to the embodiment. As one of ordinary skill in the art would also readily appreciate in alternate embodiments additional or alternate criteria involving one or more characteristics of the computer can be defined. Examples of additional or alternate criteria can include a threshold for a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application a threshold for a number of settings associated with an application a threshold for a size of an individual file saved by cleaning the individual file a threshold for a size of a trash area associated with an email account a threshold for a number of registry values of a registry or a threshold for a number of files. In certain embodiments the pre defined criteria can be defined by a user of the cleaning module where the user defines pre defined criteria using a user interface of the cleaning module. As previously described an example of a user interface of the cleaning module is described in greater detail in relation to . The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module defines a time duration between periodic monitoring. The time duration can represent a time duration between periodic instances of monitoring the computer. In certain embodiments the time duration can be defined by a user of the cleaning module where the user enters a time duration value within a user interface of the cleaning module where the time duration value represents the time duration between periodic instances of monitoring the computer. In embodiments where the computer is only monitored once step can be omitted. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module determines whether the time duration between periodic monitoring has elapsed. If the time duration between periodic monitoring has not elapsed the flow repeats back to step . If the time duration between periodic monitoring has elapsed the flow then proceeds to step . In embodiments where the computer is only monitored once step can be omitted.

At step the cleaning module monitors one or more characteristics of the computer. In certain embodiments by monitoring one or more characteristics of the computer the cleaning module can analyze the one or more characteristics of the computer. Further by analyzing the one or more characteristics the cleaning module can identify both a the one or more characteristics currently present on the computer and b the one or more characteristics present if the cleaning module cleaned one or more files and or a registry of the computer. For example if a characteristic of the computer is a size of file storage space for one or more files by analyzing the size of file storage space for one or more files the cleaning module can identify a the size of file storage space for one or more files currently on the computer and b the size of file storage space for one or more files if the cleaning module cleaned the one or more files. Thus the cleaning module can identify a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that a size of file storage space for one or more files is an example characteristic of a computer and that in alternate embodiments the one or more characteristics of the computer can include additional or alternate characteristics. Example characteristics of a computer can include a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application a number of settings associated with an application a size of an individual file a size of a trash area associated with an email account a number of registry values of a registry or a number of files. The cleaning of the one or more files and or registry is further described below in greater detail. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module detects that the size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeds the pre defined threshold. As one of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate this is an example of an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving one or more characteristics of the computer that can be detected by the cleaning module according to the embodiment. As one of ordinary skill in the art would also readily appreciate in alternate embodiments the pre defined criteria can include additional or alternate criteria involving one or more characteristics of the computer. Examples of additional or alternate criteria can include a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of settings associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of an individual file saved by cleaning the individual file exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of a trash area associated with an email account exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of registry values of a registry exceeding a pre defined threshold or a number of files exceeding a pre defined threshold. The flow then proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module determines whether the pre defined action is a automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and notifying a user of the computer of the automatic cleaning b automatically cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer or c prompting the user of the computer to clean at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer and cleaning at least one of one or more files or a registry of the computer in response to receiving an instruction to clean from the user of the computer. If the pre defined action is a the flow proceeds to step . If the pre defined action is b the flow proceeds to step . If the pre defined action is c the flow proceeds to step .

At step the cleaning module automatically cleans one or more files and or a registry of the computer. The cleaning of the one or more files and or registry is further described below in greater detail. The flow then proceeds to step . At step the cleaning module notifies a user of the cleaning module of the automatic cleaning. In certain embodiments the cleaning module notifies the user by displaying a notification within a user interface of the cleaning module. The flow then ends.

At step the cleaning module automatically cleans one or more files and or a registry of the computer. As previously described the cleaning of the one or more files and or registry is further described below in greater detail. In contrast to step the cleaning module does not notify the user of the automatic cleaning. The flow then ends.

At step the cleaning module prompts a user to clean one or more files and or a registry of the computer. In certain embodiments the cleaning module prompts the user by displaying a window within a user interface of the cleaning module. In these embodiments the window prompts the user of the computer to clean one or more files and or a registry of the computer. The flow then proceeds to step . At step upon receiving an instruction to clean the one or more files and or the registry of the computer the cleaning module cleans one or more files and or a registry of the computer. In certain embodiments the cleaning module receives the instruction when the user clicks within the windows displayed within the user interface. As previously described the cleaning of the one or more files and or registry of the computer is further described below in greater detail. The flow then ends.

According to the embodiment the user interface can display an options tab . In the illustrated embodiment in response to a user clicking options tab the user interface can display one or more options for configuring the cleaning module such as configuring the cleaning module to monitor one or more characteristics of the computer such as a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files and perform a pre defined action in response to a detection of an occurrence of pre defined criteria where the pre defined action can include cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the computer and where the pre defined criteria can include the size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold. More specifically in response to a user clicking options tab the user interface can display a plurality of configuration tabs.

According to the illustrated embodiment the plurality of configuration tabs can include monitoring tab . In response to a user clicking monitoring tab the user interface can display one or more options for defining a pre defined action for the computer. More specifically the user interface can display computer monitoring indication computer monitoring frequency indication computer monitoring criteria indication and action indication . Computer monitoring indication displays an indication of whether monitoring of the computer is enabled. By clicking on computer application monitoring indication a user can either enable or disable monitoring of the computer. Computer monitoring period indication displays an indication of a time duration value that represents a time duration between periodic instances of monitoring the computer. A user can enter a time duration value within computer monitoring period indication and can customize a periodic monitoring of the computer i.e. can customize the time duration between periodic instances of monitoring the computer . In the illustrated embodiment a user can enter a time duration value which defines a number of hours that elapse between periodic instances of monitoring the computer. However this is merely an example time duration according to the embodiment and in alternate embodiments any time duration can be defined by the user such as any number of seconds minutes hours days weeks months years etc. . Criteria indication displays criteria where the occurrence of the criteria triggers a pre defined action. A user can define the criteria and thus customize the criteria used to trigger a pre defined action. In the illustrated embodiment the user can enter a size value that defines a threshold associated with a size of the file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files. The pre defined threshold can then be used as pre defined criteria to trigger a pre defined action. However this is merely an example of pre defined criteria and in alternate embodiments any criteria can be defined such as example criteria previously described. Action indication displays a selection window that includes a list of one or more pre defined actions that can be defined for the computer. As described below in greater detail in relation to by clicking on action indication a user can select a pre defined action from the list of one or more pre defined actions displayed within the selection window and can define the selected pre defined action for the computer.

Specifics of the file cleaning and registry cleaning performed by a cleaning module that is executed on a computer are now described in greater detail in accordance with one embodiment. According to the embodiment the cleaning module can determine application information from the computer. In one embodiment the application information includes an application list that represents one or more applications that are installed on the computer. In one embodiment the cleaning module generates the application list by determining whether one or more applications are installed on the computer. According to the embodiment the cleaning module can include a list of applications that are commonly installed on a computer within the application list such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Google Chrome and Opera . The cleaning module can also include within the application list a list of locations on the computer that the cleaning module can analyze to determine whether such an application is installed. In one embodiment the list of locations includes a list of file locations. In another embodiment the list of locations includes a list of registry entries. In yet another embodiment the list of locations includes a combination of both a list of file locations and a list of registry entries. According to the embodiment if the cleaning module determines that an application is installed the cleaning module can include that application in the application list. If the cleaning module determines that the application is not installed the cleaning module can exclude that application from the application list.

Further according to an embodiment the cleaning module can select which applications from the application list are to be cleaned and which applications from the application list are not to be cleaned. Furthermore regarding the applications that are to be cleaned the cleaning module can configure which items corresponding to the application are to be removed where the items can include files registry entries data from files data from registry entries or a combination therein.

Subsequently the cleaning module can determine a cleaning rule set where the determining of the cleaning rule set can be based on the application information. In on embodiment the cleaning rule set includes one or more cleaning rule identities where a cleaning rule identity is an identity that uniquely identifies a cleaning rule. A cleaning rule includes one or more parameters for cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the computer. The parameters of the cleaning rule instruct cleaning module on what items to remove when applying the cleaning rule where the items can include files registry entries data from files data from registry entries or a combination therein. A cleaning rule can be stored within a cleaning module.

According to the embodiment the cleaning module can generate an instruction to clean one or more files and or a registry of the computer where the instruction can be based on the cleaning rule set. According to the embodiment the instruction instructs the cleaning module for each cleaning rule identity of the cleaning rule set to apply a cleaning rule that corresponds to the cleaning rule identity. By instructing the cleaning module to apply a cleaning rule the instruction instructs the cleaning module to perform at least one of the following removing one or more files removing data from one or more files removing one or more registry entries or removing data from one or more registry entries. Thus the instruction can instruct the cleaning module to perform file cleaning registry cleaning or a combination of the two.

In an alternate embodiment the cleaning module can generate an instruction to analyze rather than clean one or more files and or a registry where the instruction can be based on the cleaning rule set. In the alternate embodiment the instruction instructs the cleaning module for each cleaning rule identity of the cleaning rule set to apply a cleaning rule that corresponds to the cleaning rule identity. By instructing the cleaning module to apply a cleaning rule the instruction instructs the cleaning module to perform at least one of the following identifying one or more files to be removed identifying data from one or more files to be removed identifying one or more registry entries to be removed or identifying data from one or more registry entries to be removed.

According to an embodiment a cleaning rule can be one of three types of cleaning rules a system cleaning rule that can be applied to clean at least one of one or more files and one or more registry entries an application cleaning rule that can be applied to clean at least one of one or more files and one or more registry entries or a registry cleaning rule that can be applied to clean one or more registry entities.

A system cleaning rule is a cleaning rule for the cleaning of at least one of one or more files and one or more registry entries corresponding to a system component of a computer rather than a specific application. According to one embodiment examples of system components include the following components Recycle Bin Temporary Files Clipboard Memory Dumps Chkdsk File Fragments Windows Log Files Windows Error Reporting DNS Cache FTP Accounts Start Menu Shortcuts and Desktop Shortcuts. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that these components are merely example components and a system cleaning rule can clean other system components of a computer.

According to an embodiment the following is an example system cleaning rule for cleaning the Windows Log Files component 

According to the embodiment the system cleaning rule includes an ID parameter whose value represents a cleaning rule identity. The system cleaning rule also includes a LangSecRef parameter and a LangRef parameter whose values represent a system component or application to be cleaned. In addition the system cleaning rule includes a Default parameter whose value indicates whether the cleaning rule is applied as a default. The system cleaning rule also includes the following parameters FileKey1 FileKey2 FileKey3 FileKey4 FileKey5 FileKey6 FileKey7 FileKey8 FileKey9 FileKey10 FileKey11 FileKey12 and FileKey13. Each of these parameters is an example of a FileKey parameter. A FileKey parameter indicates specific files that are cleaned when the cleaning rule is applied.

In an alternate embodiment a system cleaning rule can include a DetectFile parameter a Detect parameter or a combination of the two. The DetectFile parameter can be used to detect the presence of a system component or application by looking for specific files. The Detect parameter can be used to detect the presence of a system component or application by looking for specific registry entries. In the alternate embodiment a system cleaning rule can also include any number of RegKey parameters. A RegKey parameter indicates specific registry entries that are cleaned when the cleaning rule is applied.

One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that the system cleaning rule shown above is only an example and that a system cleaning rule may take different forms and still be within the scope of the invention.

An application cleaning rule is a cleaning rule for the cleaning of at least one of one or more files and one or more registry entries corresponding to a specific application of a computer. According to one embodiment examples of applications include the following applications Mozilla Firefox Opera Apple Safari Google Chrome Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe ImageReady Adobe Photoshop Adobe Illustrator Yahoo Toolbar Windows Live Toolbar Google Toolbar Google Deskbar Google Calendar Sync Google Talk Microsoft Windows Media Player Real Player Quicktime Player Adobe Paint Shop Pro Microsoft Works Microsoft Office Installshield Developer Macromedia Flash Adobe Flash Player Macromedia Homesite Macromedia Fireworks Macromedia Dreamweaver Macromedia Shockwave and Microsoft Silverlight . One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that these applications are merely example components and an application cleaning rule can clean other applications of a computer.

According to an embodiment the following is an example application cleaning rule for cleaning an Internet cache of Mozilla Firefox 

According to the embodiment the application cleaning rule includes an ID parameter whose value represents a cleaning rule identity. The application cleaning rule also includes a LangSecRef parameter whose values represent a system component to be cleaned. In addition the application cleaning rule includes a Default parameter whose value indicates whether the application cleaning rule is applied as a default. The application cleaning rule also includes the following parameters SpecialDetect and SpecialKey1. The values for the parameters SpecialDetect and SpecialKey1 represent dedicated functions that are used to detect applications or system components and clean them.

In an alternate embodiment an application cleaning rule can include a DetectFile parameter a Detect parameter or a combination of the two which have previously been described. In the alternate embodiment an application cleaning rule can also include any number of FileKey parameters and or RegKey parameters both of which have also previously been described.

One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that the application cleaning rule shown above is only an example and that an application cleaning rule may take different forms and still be within the scope of the invention.

A registry cleaning rule is a cleaning rule for the cleaning one or more registry entries of a computer. According to one embodiment examples of registry cleaning rules include the following examples 

Missing Shared Dynamically Linked Libraries DLLs Removes entry for a library which is shared by multiple programs that no longer exist 

Unused File Extensions Removes entries for file extensions that are no longer associated with installed applications 

ActiveX and Class Issues Removes invalid entries from COM ActiveX object that refer to a non existing file 

One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that these are merely example registry cleaning rules and that other registry cleaning rules can be included.

According to an embodiment the following is an example registry cleaning rule for cleaning missing shared DLLs 

According to the embodiment the registry cleaning rule includes an ID parameter whose value represents a cleaning rule identity. The registry cleaning rule also includes a LangSecRef parameter and a LangRef parameter whose values represent one or more registry entries to be cleaned. In addition the registry cleaning rule includes a Default parameter whose value indicates whether the registry cleaning rule is applied as a default. The application cleaning rule also includes a SpecialKey1 parameter whose value represents a dedicated function that is used to detect registry entries and clean them.

In an alternate embodiment a registry cleaning rule can include a Detect parameter which has previously been described. In the alternate embodiment an application cleaning rule can also include any number of RegKey parameters which also have previously been described.

One of ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate that the registry cleaning rule shown above is only an example and that a registry cleaning rule may take different forms and still be within the scope of the invention.

According to an alternate embodiment a cleaning module can also generate an instruction to clean one or more databases of a computer where the instruction is based on the cleaning rule set. According to the alternate embodiment the instruction instructs the cleaning module for each appropriate cleaning rule identity of the cleaning rule set to apply a cleaning rule that corresponds to the cleaning rule identity to perform database cleaning database optimization database compacting or a combination therein on the one or more databases. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art database cleaning refers to removing one or more database records from one or more database tables. The one or more database records can be removed because of various technical or business reasons. For example the data in the one or more database records may be incomplete or corrupt. As another example the one or more database records may not be utilized. Database optimization refers to improving speed and functionality of querying the one or more databases such as creating or modifying one or more indexes. Database compacting refers to compacting data stored in the one or more databases so that the one or more databases require a smaller amount of storage space on the computer. According to the alternate embodiment the cleaning module can clean one or more databases of the computer based on the generated instruction and the cleaning rule set.

According to another alternate embodiment a cleaning module can also generate an instruction to optimize one or more browser applications of a computer where the instruction is based on the cleaning rule set. A browser application as previously described is an application configured to retrieve present and traverse information resources over the Internet such as the World Wide Web. Examples of a browser application include Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari Opera and Google Chrome . Optimizing a browser application can include cleaning one or more files associated with the browser application cleaning one or more registry entries associated with the browser application cleaning one or more databases associated with the browser application or a combination therein as previously described. According to the alternate embodiment a cleaning module can optimize one or more browser applications of a computer based on the generated instruction and the cleaning rule set.

According to an embodiment a cleaning module can monitor one or more characteristics of a computer detect an occurrence of pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics of the computer and perform a pre defined action in response to the pre defined criteria. The pre defined criteria can include a size of file storage space saved by cleaning one or more files exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of uniform resource locators associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of settings associated with an application exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of an individual file saved by cleaning the individual file exceeding a pre defined threshold a size of a trash area associated with an email account exceeding a pre defined threshold a number of registry values of a registry exceeding a pre defined threshold and or a number of files exceeding a pre defined threshold. The pre defined action can include automatically cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the computer with a notification automatically cleaning one or more files and or a registry of the computer without a notification or prompting a user to clean one or more files and or a registry of the computer and cleaning the one or more files and or the registry of the computer in response to receiving an instruction to clean from the user or ignoring the closing of the browser application. By providing the user the ability to monitor one or more characteristics of the computer and to customize an action that can be performed upon pre defined criteria involving the one or more characteristics the cleaning module can provide a more active cleaning process. Such an active cleaning process can preserve storage space for the computer system and can make the computer system operate faster and be more stable.

One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order and or with hardware elements in configurations which are different than those which are disclosed. Therefore although the invention has been described based upon these preferred embodiments it would be apparent to those of skill in the art that certain modifications variations and alternative constructions would be apparent while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine the metes and bounds of the invention therefore reference should be made to the appended claims.

