---

title: Systems and methods for adjusting a contour of a vehicle based on a protrusion
abstract: A system for informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion includes a sensor and a processing circuit. The sensor is configured to generate sensor data based on a position of cargo. The processing circuit is configured to determine a contour of the vehicle, detect protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle, where detecting the protruding cargo is based on the sensor data and the contour, and notify the navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09488482&OS=09488482&RS=09488482
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09488482
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
Vehicles and in particular robotic or remotely driven vehicles may be provided with a navigation system that includes an automatic guidance and collision avoidance system. In general these automatic collision avoidance systems utilize a defined envelope related to the cross section of the vehicle while attempting to avoid collisions. As the vehicle moves about the cargo of the vehicle may shift to extend beyond the ordinary envelope of the vehicle. However the operator of the vehicle and the vehicle s automatic collision avoidance system may be unaware of the protruding cargo. As the vehicle continues to move the protruding cargo is vulnerable to collisions with other vehicles signposts trees and structures.

One embodiment relates to a system for informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion includes a sensor and a processing circuit. The sensor is configured to generate sensor data based on a position of cargo. The processing circuit is configured to determine a contour of the vehicle detect protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle wherein detecting the protruding cargo is based on the sensor data and the contour and notify the navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo.

Another embodiment relates to a method of informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion. The method includes acquiring sensor data from a sensor based on a position of cargo determining a contour of the vehicle detecting protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle based on the sensor data and the contour and notifying the navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo.

Another embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions forming a program for informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion the program executable by a computing device that when executed by the computing device cause the computing device to perform operations including acquiring sensor data from a sensor configured to generate the sensor data based on a position of cargo determining a contour of the vehicle detecting protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle based on the sensor data and the contour and notifying the navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo.

Another embodiment relates to a system for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction including a sensor and a processing circuit. The sensor is configured to generate sensor data based on a position of cargo. The processing circuit is configured to determine a contour of the vehicle determine a size limit on a route of the vehicle detect protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle based on the sensor data and the contour generate an updated contour of the vehicle based on the protruding cargo determine a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the updated contour and notify a navigation system of the vehicle of the susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit.

Another embodiment relates to a method of identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction. The method includes acquiring sensor data from a sensor based on a position of cargo determining a contour of the vehicle determining a size limit on a route of the vehicle detecting protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle based on the sensor data and the contour generating an updated contour of the vehicle based on the protruding cargo determining a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the updated contour and notifying a navigation system of the vehicle of the susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit.

Another embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions forming a program for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction the program executable by a computing device that when executed by the computing device cause the computing device to perform operations including acquiring sensor data from a sensor wherein the sensor data based on a position of cargo determining a contour of the vehicle determining a size limit on a route of the vehicle detecting protruding cargo extending outside the contour of the vehicle based on the sensor data and the contour generating an updated contour of the vehicle based on the protruding cargo determining a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the updated contour and notifying a navigation system of the vehicle of the susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit.

Another embodiment relates to a system for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle approaching a structure to a size restriction of the structure comprising a detector configured to detect the approaching vehicle and a processing circuit configured to identify the vehicle based on data from the detector access a database to determine a contour of the identified vehicle wherein the database is configured to store vehicle contour information compare the contour of the vehicle to a size limit of the structure and determine a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the comparison.

Another embodiment relates to a method of identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle approaching a structure to a size restriction of the structure. The method includes acquiring data from a detector configured to detect the approaching vehicle identifying with a processing circuit the vehicle based on the data from the detector accessing a database to determine a contour of the identified vehicle wherein the database is configured to store vehicle contour information comparing the contour of the vehicle to a size limit of the structure and determining a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the comparison.

Another embodiment relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon the instructions forming a program executable by a computing device for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle approaching a structure to a size restriction of the structure that when executed by the computing device cause the computing device to perform operations including acquiring data from a detector configured to detect the approaching vehicle identifying the vehicle based on the data from the detector accessing a database to determine a contour of the identified vehicle wherein the database is configured to store vehicle contour information comparing the contour of the vehicle to a size limit of the structure and determining a susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit based on the comparison.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Referring generally to the figures various embodiments for informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion are shown and described. A vehicle e.g. a car a truck a train a subway car a boat construction equipment etc. may be equipped with a navigation system that has collision avoidance and or automated guidance capabilities. In general the navigation system may utilize a collision avoidance algorithm that considers the vehicle s contour as the system is controlling the vehicle. The contour of the vehicle may include general or specific dimensions of the vehicle and may include the dimensions of equipment e.g. a trailer towed items top mounted containers bike luggage racks etc. coupled to the vehicle. The decision to incorporate the contour of a trailer or mounted container with the vehicle s native contour may be made based on sensor input e.g. a camera or a load sensor detecting their attachment to the vehicle . A vehicle may also be remotely or robotically driven and such collision avoidance systems may be used to steer the vehicle safely along its route. Alternatively the vehicle may be controlled by a driver and the collision avoidance system may be used to notify the driver of an impending collision or to assume control of the vehicle or influence the driver s control of the vehicle while attempting to avoid a collision. As the vehicle moves about cargo of the vehicle e.g. a person a load goods an object a pet etc. may shift such that the cargo extends beyond the normal envelope dimensions or contour of the vehicle. For example a passenger may extend his or her arms outside a car window as the car drives. As the car moves the passenger s extended extremities are vulnerable to collisions. As another example items affixed to a roof rack of a car may shift such that the items extend off to the side of the car. Alternatively the cargo may have initially been placed in a manner such that it extends beyond the typical vehicle dimensions. For example a load of beams in the back of a truck may have been placed such that the beams extend off of the bed of the truck. As the truck moves the extended beams are vulnerable to collisions with other traffic buildings road signs a bridge a tunnel etc. In any of these scenarios the operator of the vehicle may not be aware of the protruding cargo. Similarly the navigation and collision avoidance systems of the vehicle may not take the protrusions into account. Sensing devices and a processing circuit may be utilized to detect the dangerous condition of the protruding cargo and generate an updated contour of the vehicle which includes the additional space or extended contour taken up by the protruding cargo. The updated contour may be formed according to three dimensions and may generally correspond to overall vehicle dimensions may be localized to the area of the protruding cargo and may include the dimensions of equipment e.g. a trailer towed items etc. coupled to the vehicle. For example a vehicle may be treated as if it is 12 inches wider if an occupant s arm is extended outside the ordinary bounds of the vehicle by a few inches. In the instance of multiple protrusions the updated contour may include varying dimensions to account for each or some of the protrusions. The updated contour may be provided to a navigation system of the vehicle to be used by the navigation system which may include a collision avoidance system an automatic guidance system a collision alert system etc. The protruding cargo may be detected through the use of imaging sensors e.g. cameras wide field of view cameras RFID sensors infrared devices optical links etc. which are able to sense the position of an object or occupant including the position of a protrusion relative to the vehicle. Additionally cargo protrusions may be estimated or inferred by the processing circuit based on knowledge of the type of cargo or a cargo model e.g. including dimensions shapes etc. . For example a non protruding portion of the cargo may be detected based on the position of the cargo and then a protruding portion may be estimated or inferred by comparing the non protruding portion to the model of the cargo. For example a protruding portion e.g. the tip an edge etc. of the cargo may be directly detected based on the position of the cargo. As another example a protruding portion e.g. the tip an edge etc. of the cargo may be detected based on the position of the cargo and then a further protruding portion may be estimated or inferred by comparing the detected protruding portion to the model of the cargo. Sensors such as imagers pressure sensors capacitance sensors and the like may also be used to ascertain the cargo s position and location with respect to the vehicle. By providing an updated contour to the navigation system the vehicle may take into account the protruding cargo in order to safely navigate before a collision occurs.

Various embodiments for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction are also shown and described. A vehicle may be equipped with a navigation system as described above or a remote navigation system may be utilized to steer the vehicle. Sensing devices and a processing circuit may be utilized to detect protruding cargo as discussed above. The processing circuit may also determine a specific or estimated amount of a protrusion. The processing circuit may calculate the amount based on sensor measurement data. The processing circuit may also determine a specific or estimated amount that cargo is protruding based on sensor measurement data or the processing circuit may estimate or otherwise infer the cargo protrusion amount based on a model or non protruding portions of the cargo. After protruding cargo is detected the processing circuit may determine the susceptibility of the vehicle to size limits e.g. height restrictions width restrictions length restrictions etc. along the route of the vehicle. For example a size limit may be due to the height of a bridge the height of a garage the width of a tunnel etc. The processing circuit may inform the navigation system of the susceptibility of the vehicle to the size limit and the navigation system may use the provided data in its collision avoidance detection and navigation systems and may further use the data to determine an updated and suitable route for the vehicle with the protruding cargo. The processing circuit may also generate an updated contour and provide the updated contour to a navigation system as described by the systems disclosed herein.

The described systems herein may be enabled or disabled by a user as the user desires. Additionally a user may specify preferences in order to set characteristics of warnings and cargo and set the sensitivity of sensors etc. User preferences and settings may be stored in a preference file. For example one user s preference may be for a 6 inch safety zone beyond the physical contour of the vehicle and protrusion while another user may prefer no safety zone. Default operating values may also be provided. Additionally the features of the various embodiments herein and sensor configurations may be combined.

Referring to a block diagram of system for informing a navigation system of a vehicle of a protrusion is shown. System may also be used for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction. According to one embodiment system includes processing circuit and sensors for sensing information related to the cargo s position and providing the information to processing circuit . As used herein the cargo may refer to any person animal or anything carried transported or otherwise towed by the vehicle. System is configured to notify the navigation system of a vehicle of a protruding cargo condition. In other embodiments system may generate an updated contour of a vehicle to include the area of space taken up by the protrusion and system may provide the updated contour to the navigation system. System may also generate characteristics of protrusions including height width and length measurements of protrusions. In other embodiments system may analyze a protrusion and determine the susceptibility a vehicle to a size limit along a route of the vehicle.

System may provide the analysis to a navigation system of the vehicle. In some embodiments system also includes feedback device for providing a warning related to protruding cargo. In other embodiments system may provide warnings through feedback device and inform the navigation system. Sensors include all sensing components necessary for sensing protruding cargo. Sensors may include a single sensor device or multiple sensors. Sensors may be imaging sensors cameras laser sensors radar sensors RFID sensors infrared sensors optical sensors pressure sensors capacitive sensors GPS sensors ultrasonic sensors magnetic sensors etc. or any combination of sensors. Cameras may include wide field of view cameras infrared cameras 3 D cameras e.g. stereoscopic cameras cameras that determine range from depth of focus etc. may use artificial illumination etc. Cameras or other imaging sensors may be located on the vehicle or may be external to it reporting via a wired connection or wirelessly to processing circuit . Sensors may be communicably coupled to processing circuit . Processing circuit analyzes the sensor data and detects protruding cargo based on the sensor data.

Processing circuit may also determine characteristics of the protruding cargo e.g. what specific body part is protruding for a protruding extremity an amount of protrusion a location of protrusion the type of cargo that is protruding etc. . In one embodiment processing circuit generates a warning and outputs the warning to feedback device . Feedback device may be a display screen a speaker a mechanical feedback device or any device capable of providing feedback related to a protrusion. For example feedback device may include an LCD display screen coupled to the vehicle. As another example feedback device may be an external feedback device wirelessly connected to processing circuit e.g. a terminal at a gas station etc. . Processing circuit notifies a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo which may include multiple protrusions. The navigation system may utilize the information during navigation and or collision detection. Processing circuit may also calculate an updated vehicle contour including the bounds of the protruding extremity and provide the updated contour to the navigation system. Processing circuit may further analyze a route of the vehicle and compare various size limits along the route to the dimensions of the vehicle including the protrusion. Based on the analysis processing circuit determines the susceptibility e.g. likelihood of collision feasibility of the route etc. of the vehicle to the size limits and provides the analysis to the navigation system.

According to one embodiment system includes processing circuit and sensors for sensing information related to an object s position and providing the information to processing circuit . In some embodiments system may lack sensors and may be configured receive data input related to protrusions. In some embodiments system may lack feedback device and may be configured to notify the navigation system of a vehicle of a protruding object condition. Sensors may be generally configured as discussed above and sensors may be configured to detect both a protruding cargo of an extremity and an object. Accordingly system may be configured to detect a protruding extremity object or both. Such detection of extremities and objects may occur separately or at the same time and may be enabled or disabled as a user desires.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a manually driven car that has a navigation system. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the car. Sensors include a wide field of view camera. Processing circuit accepts input from the camera and analyzes the images from the camera to determine when an occupant extends past the boundaries of the car. When a protruding extremity is detected processing circuit informs the navigation system. The navigation system may use the information to generate an alert or warning. For example a passenger may extend his arm outside a window of the car as the car is driving. Processing circuit may analyze the camera input to detect the protrusion and provide related information to the navigation system. The navigation system may generate a visual warning of the condition on its display screen. In another embodiment sensors include a GPS sensor or augmented GPS sensor configured to provide a geospatial location. Processing circuit accepts input from the camera and analyzes the images from the camera to determine when a cargo extends past the boundaries of the car however the protruding cargo detection is further based on the geospatial location. For example in a location that is more open e.g. on an open road cargo may not be considered protruding and further action may be suppressed. In a location that is indoors or constricted e.g. within a garage in an alley etc. the protrusion may be detected and action may be taken.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a train car. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the train car. Sensors include optical sensors. As an example the optical system may include a transmitter that sends a light beam to a receiver across the width of a window of train car. Upon obstruction of the optical beam by an occupant processing circuit may determine that the occupant is not properly seated and therefore has a protruding extremity. Processing circuit informs a navigation system or a computing control system of the train.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a pickup truck. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the truck. Sensors include optical sensors positioned to scan around the perimeter of the bed of the truck. As an example the optical system may include a transmitter that sends a light beam to a receiver across the width of the bed. Upon obstruction of the optical beam by cargo processing circuit may determine that the cargo has shifted and is protruding. Processing circuit informs a navigation system of the truck of the condition. Sensors may also include a camera configured to scan an area of a trailer of the truck. Processing circuit accepts input from the camera and analyzes the images from the camera to determine when cargo extends past the boundaries of the trailer. Processing circuit informs a navigation system of the truck of the condition. The scope of the present disclosure is not limited to a certain type of trailer or load and other objects may be detected as described herein.

In one embodiment system is integrated into an open bed truck. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the truck. Sensors include an RFID radio frequency identification sensor. RFID tags are coupled to cargo of the truck at various locations. For example if the truck is transporting a load of wood logs the RFID tags may be coupled to the ends of various logs. Processing circuit receives input from the RFID sensor corresponding to the RFID tags. The RFID sensor may provide distance information to processing circuit or alternatively processing circuit may calculate a distance of the RFID tag. A distance may be based on a reflected signal strength from the RFID sensor to a particular RFID tag. A distance may also be based on the time it takes for a signal generated by the RFID sensor to reflect from an RFID tag and return to the RFID sensor. In some embodiments multiple RFID sensors may each measure distances to an RFID tag and based on the set of multiple distances processing circuit may determine a 3 D location of the RFID tag. Based on the distance information processing circuit may determine when cargo corresponding to a particular RFID tag is protruding. Alternatively processing circuit may determine a protrusion if the RFID sensor data indicates that the RFID tag has crossed a threshold regardless of distance information. When protruding cargo is detected processing circuit informs a navigation system of the truck of the condition.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a car. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the car. Sensors include pressure sensors and capacitive sensors integrated throughout the seats of the car or cameras imaging the interior of the car. Processing circuit receives input from the sensors. Based on the imaging data pressure data and or the capacitive data processing circuit determines an occupant s position in the car. For example different parts of the body produce different characteristics with respect to the pressure induced on the seats. By comparing various pressure points and capacitive readings the position of an occupant s legs arms back etc. may be determined. Processing circuit may also compare the determined position information to skeletal models and estimate that an occupant s extremity is outside the normal contours of the car e.g. extending out of a window or an open door etc. . For example if the pressure and capacitive data indicates that an occupant s arm is resting near the edge of the window and is directed out of the window processing circuit may infer that the occupant s hand and forearm are protruding from the window. As another example if the imaging data from an interior compartment of the car indicates that an occupant s arm is resting near the edge of the window and is directed out of the window processing circuit may infer that the occupant s hand and forearm are protruding from the window. When a protruding extremity is detected processing circuit informs a navigation system of the car of the condition. Similar analysis may be applied to protruding objects.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a car that has a navigation system including collision avoidance features. The car may be remotely piloted or automatically robotically driven by the navigation system. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the car. Sensors include multiple wide field of view cameras. Processing circuit accepts input from the cameras and analyzes the images from the cameras to determine when an occupant extends past the boundaries of the car. Processing circuit accepts input from the cameras and also analyzes the images from the cameras to determine when any objects extend past the boundaries of the car. When a protrusion is detected processing circuit calculates an updated contour of the car to account for the protrusion. The updated contour may include an extended contour corresponding to overall car dimensions or may be localized to the area of the protrusion. Processing circuit transmits this updated contour information to the navigation system. Processing circuit may format the data related of the updated contour and may communicate with the navigation system according to a protocol defined by system or defined by the navigation system. Processing circuit may transmit a file various files or a stream of data to the navigation system. For example a particular application programming interface API may be provided by a navigation system and processing circuit can be configured to communicate with the navigation system according to the API.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a car that has a navigation system including collision avoidance features. Processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the car. Sensors include multiple wide field of view cameras. Processing circuit accepts input from the cameras and analyzes the images from the cameras to determine when any cargo extends past the boundaries of the car. When a protrusion is detected processing circuit analyzes the protrusion to determine details related to the protrusion. For example processing circuit may determine an amount of a protrusion and a position of the protrusion. Processing circuit may access route information for the vehicle to determine size limits along the route. For example the navigation system may provide a start and ending destination. As another example the navigation system may provide a projected route. In one embodiment the processing circuit compares the route information to a database of size limits to determine size restrictions along the route. In another embodiment processing circuit directly receives size limit information e.g. from the navigation system a database a mapping program etc. . The size limit information may be based on a current location of the car or a projected location or route. Processing circuit analyzes and compares the details of the protrusion to the size limit information to determine the susceptibility of the car to the size limit. A size limit may be any size restriction along a route e.g. a garage size a tunnel height a bridge width a street width etc. . The analysis may be provided to the navigation system. As an example the navigation system may utilize the analysis to determine an updated route for the car in the instance that the car and protrusion are too large for a current route due to a size limit.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a semi truck having sensors and processing circuit is a computing device coupled to the truck. Processing circuit is configured to receive data relate to protrusions. For example processing circuit may receive input from a user interface e.g. a GUI or an external device. The input data may include dimensions of cargo or a partial arrangement of cargo creating the protrusion. The input data may include a request for updated contour information. Processing circuit informs a navigation system of the truck of the condition. For example the semi truck may be carrying a load that cannot fit within the bounds of the bed of the truck and must be placed in a protruding manner. In this scenario the truck driver may enter details related to the protrusion via the GUI or a truck service station may contain sensing equipment that provides related protrusion details to processing circuit . Processing circuit accepts the protrusion data and accepts input from sensors . Processing circuit may compare the protrusion data to the contours of the truck and inform a navigation system of the truck of the condition. Processing circuit may also generate an updated contour as described herein. Processing circuit may compare may also determine the susceptibility of the truck to a size limit as described herein.

In one embodiment system is integrated into a truck however sensors are external to system . Sensors may include an array of cameras. For example the cameras may be positioned at a truck stop weigh station and scanning may be provided as a service to the truck operator. The truck may drive through the area of the cameras and processing circuit may receive sensor data wirelessly from camera sensors . Alternatively system may be entirely external from the truck and may be configured to interface with a wireless transmitter to communicate with the navigation system of the truck as the truck is analyzed for protrusions.

Referring to a detailed block diagram of processing circuit for completing the systems and methods of the present disclosure is shown according to one embodiment. Processing circuit may be processing circuit of . Processing circuit is generally configured to accept input from at least one sensor. Processing circuit is further configured to receive configuration and preference data. Input data may be accepted continuously or periodically. Processing circuit uses the input data to detect when an occupant s body or other cargo extends past the ordinary contour of a vehicle. The ordinary contour is generally based on the dimensions of the particular vehicle including any trailers towed items of the vehicle . Processing circuit may automatically detect the ordinary contour of a vehicle or may receive contour information. For example a model of the vehicle and or trailer may be provided by configuration data . Processing circuit analyzes data provided by the sensor s to determine when an occupant or cargo moves outside of the contour and is therefore vulnerable to a collision. Based on any detected protrusions procession circuit may generate and output a warning using a feedback device or processing circuit may notify a navigation system. Processing circuit may also generate updated contour maps that take into account the space occupied by any protrusions. Processing circuit may also analyze the sensor data related to a protrusion to determine measurements e.g. height width length etc. of a protrusion. Processing circuit may also determine the susceptibility of the vehicle to any size limits based on the protrusions. In determining protrusions generating contours and determining size limit restrictions processing circuit may make use of machine learning artificial intelligence interactions with local and or remote databases and database table lookups pattern recognition and logging intelligent control neural networks fuzzy logic etc.

According to one embodiment processing circuit includes processor . Processor may be implemented as a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGAs a digital signal processor DSP a group of processing components or other suitable electronic processing components. Processing circuit also includes memory . Memory is one or more devices e.g. RAM ROM flash memory hard disk storage etc. for storing data and or computer code for facilitating the various processes described herein. Memory may be or include non transient volatile memory or non volatile memory. Memory may include database components object code components script components or any other type of information structure for supporting the various activities and information structures described herein. Memory may be communicably connected to processor and include computer code or instructions for executing the processes described herein.

Memory includes memory buffer . Memory buffer is configured to receive a data stream e.g. from a sensor from a navigation system from a database from a user input device etc. through input . For example the data may include a real time stream of sensor data etc. The data received through input may be stored in memory buffer until memory buffer is accessed for data by the various modules of memory . For example sensor analysis module contour generation module and size analysis module each can access the data that is stored in memory buffer .

Memory further includes configuration data . Configuration data includes data related to processing circuit . For example configuration data may include information related to interfacing with other components e.g. sensors of system of a navigation system of a vehicle an external database a user input device etc. . This may include the command set needed to interface with a computer system used transfer user settings or otherwise set up the system. This may further include the command set needed to generate graphical user interface GUI controls menus warning information feedback and visual information. As another example configuration data may include the command set needed to interface with communication components e.g. a universal serial bus USB interface a Wi Fi interface an Ethernet interface etc. . Processing circuit may format data for output via output to allow a user to configure the systems as described herein. Processing circuit may also format visual information to be output for display on a display device. Processing circuit may also generate commands necessary to drive a feedback device. Configuration data may also include information as to how often input should be accepted from a sensor. As another example configuration data may include default values required to initiate the device and initiate communication with sensors navigation systems anti collision systems or other peripheral systems. Configuration data further includes data to configure communication between the various components of processing circuit .

Processing circuit further includes input and output . Input is configured to receive a data stream e.g. a digital or analog stream of data from sensors configuration information and preference information. Output is configured to provide an output to a feedback device a vehicle navigation system or components of the systems as described herein.

Memory further includes modules and for executing the systems and methods described herein. Modules and are configured to receive sensor data configuration information user preference data and other data as provided by processing circuit . Modules and are generally configured to analyze sensor data detect a protrusion of a vehicle provide feedback related to detected protrusions inform navigation systems of protrusions generate updated vehicle contours that account for the protrusions and determine a vehicle s susceptibility to a size limit based on protrusions. Modules and may be further configured to operate according to a user s preferences. In this manner certain contour characteristics and sensor sensitivities may be adjusted according to a user s desires or manufacturer s settings.

Sensor analysis module is configured to receive sensor data from various sensors e.g. sensors of etc. . The sensor data may include distance related data orientation related data a range or 3 D spatial information. The sensor data may be provided through input or through memory buffer . Sensor analysis module scans the sensor data and analyzes the data to detect the position of cargo of a vehicle. The cargo may include an occupant a pet or other objects. Upon detection of cargo sensor analysis module may determine whether the cargo is a living occupant or is an object. Based on that determination for occupants and pets sensor analysis module may further determine a particular type of extremity e.g. arm leg foot head hand paw etc. that is protruding. Sensor analysis module may also scan and analyze the sensor data to detect types of objects e.g. a cane skis wood etc. . In one embodiment sensor analysis module scans to automatically detect all cargo within the sensor data. In another embodiment sensor analysis module analyzes the sensor data for certain types of cargo. The types of cargo may be provided by configuration data or user setting data. Additionally various models of cargo may be accessed in detecting an object. Sensor analysis module compares the positioning of an occupant and extremities to the contour of the vehicle. Sensor analysis module also compares the positioning of the objects to the contour of the vehicle. The contour generally corresponds to the dimensions of the area of space taken up by the vehicle e.g. a maximum length and width etc. . For example a particular car model may have a footprint that is 6 ft. wide by 15 ft. long. As another example a particular truck including a trailer may have a footprint that is 8 ft. wide by 50 ft. long. The contour in these situations may correspond to the perimeter around the space taken up by the footprint. In the case of a vehicle having a trailer the contour may change as the vehicle moves e.g. as the truck turns . A contour may be precisely specified to correspond to all changes in dimensions of the vehicle or may be a more general square rectangle shape corresponding to the maximum dimensions occupied by the vehicle. As another example a particular vehicle may have a footprint that is 6 ft. wide by 15 ft. long but may have a tapered shape such that the width of the vehicle is 6.5 ft. at the steering wheel level due to side view mirrors. The contour in this scenario may correspond to the length and the width at the steering wheel level as opposed to the width at the footprint of the wheelchair. The contour of a vehicle may either be provided by pre stored vehicle profiles or contours e.g. stored in configuration data etc. may be based on vehicle model data or may be detected by sensor analysis module . Sensor analysis module may utilize typical boundary detection algorithms in determining the contour of a vehicle.

Sensor analysis module may determine that cargo is outside of the vehicle contour through a variety of methods. A particular method may correspond to the type of sensors in use. Any of the methods of detection discussed herein may be combined or used individually. For example in one embodiment utilizing a wide field of view camera sensor analysis module receives image data. Sensor analysis module analyzes the image data to detect an occupant s position using body detection algorithms and object s position using object detection algorithms. As the body of the occupant is detected sensor analysis module also compares the location of the extremities to the contour of the vehicle. If an extremity is determined to be outside of the contour then sensor analysis module provides this information to contour generation module size analysis module or both. Similar analysis may be performed for an object. Typically when an extremity or object is outside of the contour it is at risk of collision. However the amount that an extremity or object must be outside the contour before it is considered a risk may be adjusted e.g. through thresholds stored in configuration data or preference data . . In this manner a driver occupant or manufacturer may customize the particular system in use such that a threshold must be reached before the system updates contour values or performs further analysis. In one embodiment sensor analysis module receives geospatial information from a GPS sensor and analyzes the geospatial information in determining a protruding extremity. In this manner the location of the vehicle may be used in determining distance thresholds that must be reached before the system considers an extremity or object as protruding. Any data generated by sensor analysis module may be provided to any of the modules of processing circuit .

In one embodiment utilizing optical laser link sensors sensor analysis module receives data related to cargo e.g. objects and extremities etc. crossing the path of the optical laser links. For example if the optical links are arranged around the perimeter of the openings of a vehicle doorways windows tailgates etc. the sensors may provide a signal to sensor analysis module when the occupant s leg crosses the optical link and protrudes outside the contour of the vehicle. Such optical systems may be used in conjunction with other sensors described herein. For example after an optical link sensor is triggered a camera sensor may be used to determine an amount of a protrusion through analysis of image data provided by the camera sensor. As another example capacitive and pressure sensors may be used to determine the general position of an occupant in the vehicle. Such pressure and capacitive sensors may be mounted in the seat and the backrest areas of the vehicle. Sensor analysis module may analyze the position data and compare it to models of the human body e.g. skeletal models etc. and estimate an amount that an extremity is protruding based on knowledge of body interconnectivity e.g. the hand is connected to the forearm etc. . The models of the human body may be general models according to average human proportions or may be tailored to the dimensions of a particular occupant. Such models may be stored in configuration data or preference data . In some embodiments sensor analysis module may be configured to infer protrusions based on pressure or capacitive data alone.

In one embodiment utilizing sensors coupled to the cargo sensor analysis module may monitor sensor data for indications that the cargo has moved beyond the safe contours of the vehicle. For example an RFID sensor system may be mounted throughout the perimeter of the vehicle an any accompanying trailer and the cargo may have RFID tags coupled to it. If the RFID tag crosses the bounds of the RFID sensor system the RFID system can provide appropriate data to the sensor analysis module which may then determine that the cargo is protruding. For an occupant such RFID tags may be coupled to an occupant s wrist with a wristband or ankles etc. The protrusion determination may be may in conjunction with knowledge of the occupant s body position as discussed above or may be dependent solely on the RFID tag crossing the RFID sensor. Additionally some RFID sensor systems are capable of determining a distance from an RFID tag as discussed above. Such distance information may be utilized by sensor analysis module in determining the amount of a protrusion.

In one embodiment utilizing sensors coupled to the cargo sensor analysis module may monitor sensor data for indications that the cargo has moved beyond the safe contours of the vehicle. For example a radar or lidar sensor system may be mounted on the vehicle or any accompanying trailer and the cargo may have radar or lidar reflectors coupled to it. In some embodiments the radar or lidar reflectors are retroreflectors such as cornercubes. In the case of cargo that is a pet such reflectors may be coupled to the pet s collar. For an elongated object such as a pipe or board the reflectors may be coupled near the tip. The protrusion determination may be in conjunction with knowledge of a model of the object or occupant as discussed above or may be dependent solely on the radar or lidar sensor s detection of the protruding cargo or a reflector coupled to it. The radar or lidar sensor may be solely provided for protrusion detection or may also be used by the vehicle s collision avoidance or navigation system for sensing external vehicles or obstacles.

In one embodiment utilizing infrared sensors sensor analysis module may analyze heat map data corresponding to the heat signature of cargo. Sensor analysis module scans the heat map to determine the locations of the cargo with respect to the vehicle and then compares the locations to the contour of the vehicle. If an extremity is determined to be extending beyond the contour sensor analysis module may determine that the cargo is protruding and thus further action may be taken. Sensor analysis module may also analyze the heat map to determine specific or estimated amounts that cargo is protruding.

In one embodiment a system including processing circuit is configured to interface with and accept input via input from onboard sensors or onboard computing systems of a vehicle. Sensor analysis module analyzes the data to infer a dynamic protrusion or potential for a dynamic protrusion e.g. due to slipped or shifted cargo . For example a truck may include diagnostic systems for monitoring pressure at its wheels. If the provided data suddenly indicates that the pressure distribution between wheels has shifted or increased at a certain wheel sensor analysis module may infer that cargo has shifted in a manner as to be potentially protruding or actually protruding. As another example if the provided data indicates that there is a sudden decrease in speed sensor analysis module may infer that cargo may shift due to momentum of the cargo and the decrease in vehicle speed. As another example if the data indicates that a window or door of the vehicle is opened while the vehicle is moving sensor analysis module may infer that there is a likelihood that an occupant may shift to a protruding position e.g. place an arm outside the window . In another embodiment the sensors of the system e.g. sensors include the sensors necessary to monitor vehicle conditions e.g. load sensors pressure sensors speedometers etc. . as discussed. In any of these scenarios sensor analysis module may provide inference data to contour generation module to generate an inferred updated contour. Default values configuration data or models of the cargo may be used in estimating an updated contour.

Contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module related to a protrusion and notifies a navigation system of a vehicle of the protrusion. For example robotically driven vehicle may include a navigation system with anti collision features. Such an anti collision system may use radar or other means to scan a road to detect obstacles and measure the width or lane width position of the road. Such an anti collision system may also obtain the road details from an externally supplied map or database or from geospatial information. A GPS sensor of the navigation system or a GPS sensor that is part of the systems described herein may also provide the geospatial information. Generally based on the contour e.g. the width etc. and orientation of the vehicle a navigation and anti collision systems may safely steer the vehicle within a lane of the road. Contour generation module generates appropriate signals to communicate with such navigation systems. In this manner contour generation module may notify the navigation system that cargo of the vehicle is outside the ordinary contours of the vehicle and the navigation system may take appropriate action e.g. pausing the movement of the vehicle changing the route of the vehicle changing the position within a lane allowing for additional space on turns allowing for additional space between other traffic etc. . Contour generation module may also inform the navigation system that the vehicle should be treated as having an updated contour due to the space taken up by a protruding object. In some embodiments contour generation module generates an updated contour that takes the protrusion into account and provides the updated contour to the navigation system. In doing so contour generation module may access vehicle contour data stored in configuration data or as generated by sensor analysis module as discussed above. In this manner the navigation system and anti collision mechanisms of the vehicle may dynamically adjust the values used related to space occupied by the vehicle to compensate for the additional space taken by the protruding cargo. For example after receiving updated contour data from contour generation module the navigation system may treat a vehicle as being 7 ft. wide as opposed to an ordinary width of 6 ft. and thus the navigation system may safely steer the vehicle to avoid collisions with the protruding cargo e.g. an extremity and or object . As another example after receiving updated contour data from contour generation module the navigation system may treat a truck as being 25 ft. long as opposed to 20 ft. long and thus the navigation system may safely steer the truck to avoid collisions. As another example after receiving updated contour data from contour generation module the navigation system may treat a truck as being 9 ft. high as opposed to an ordinary height of 6 ft. and thus the navigation system may safely steer the truck or calculate an updated route to avoid overhead collisions. Updated contours may include updates in any of three dimensions collectively or separately.

In one embodiment contour generation module updates a contour across an entire span of the vehicle. For example if contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module that indicates an occupant s arm is extended beyond the right side boundary of the vehicle by 10 inches contour generation module may extend the width of the vehicle to the right side by 10 inches. As another example if contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module that indicates an item of cargo is extended beyond the right side boundary of a trailer of the vehicle by 2 feet contour generation module may extend the width of the contour to the right side along the span of the vehicle and trailer by 2 ft. Contour generation module may add additional buffer space to the contour for additional safety e.g. extending the right side boundary by 2.5 ft. instead of 2 ft. as in the previously discussed examples .

In one embodiment contour generation module updates a contour in a localized manner. For example if contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module that indicates an occupant s arm is extended beyond the left side boundary of the vehicle by 10 inches contour generation module may extend the width of the contour area around the extended arm by 10 inches but not change the contour in other regions such as above or behind the extended foot. As another example if contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module that indicates an item of cargo is extended beyond the left side boundary of the vehicle by 25 inches contour generation module may extend the width of the contour area around the cargo by 25 inches but not change the contour in other regions such as in front or in back of the cargo. As another example if contour generation module receives data from sensor analysis module that indicates an item of cargo is extended beyond the right side boundary of a trailer of the vehicle by 2 ft. contour generation module may extend the width of the contour to the right side along the span of trailer but not the vehicle by 2 ft. Contour generation module may add additional buffer space to the contour for additional safety.

In one embodiment contour generation module receives data related to an inferred protrusion from sensor analysis module . The data may include positions of the inferred protrusion estimated protrusion amounts models of cargo inferred to be protruding. Contour generation module may generate updated contours as discussed above e.g. generally or localized but based on the inferred data. Also contour generation module may access default or configuration values related to updated contours. For example upon receiving inferred protrusion data from sensor analysis module contour generation module may access default values specifying to increase the overall contour of the vehicle by a certain percentage or amount e.g. 20 overall increase or an addition of 2 ft. etc. . As another example the default values may depend on the position of the inferred protrusion and may specify an extension to a certain portion of the contour by a percentage or amount.

In one embodiment contour generation module is configured to format update contour data for transmission. In this manner processing circuit may interface with a transmitter e.g. a radio transmitter a Bluetooth transmitter a Wi Fi transmitter etc. to provide an updated contour to the navigation system of another nearby vehicle. Alternatively an updated contour may be transmitted to an accessible database e.g. associated with the car the driver an insurance company a government agency a mapping service etc. . By doing so other vehicles equipped with navigation systems may access the database e.g. using the vehicle s license plate as an identification code to obtain updated contour information of the vehicle and other nearby traffic as the vehicles are navigating.

Size analysis module receives data from contour generation module related to a protrusion and an updated contour of a vehicle and analyzes the dimensions of the updated contour to determine if the vehicle is susceptible to a size limit along its route or potential route . For example the dimensions of the updated contour may include the amount of an extension or a height of a protrusion. In one embodiment size analysis module accesses a database local or remote to determine a size limit on a route of the vehicle or based on the current location of the vehicle. For example in an embodiment having sensors that include a GPS sensor size analysis module may receive a geospatial location of the vehicle from sensors . For remote size limit or mapping databases processing circuit may interface with a transmitter as described above to obtain the relevant data. The database may be provided by a mapping provider or mapping application. In another embodiment a size limit and or projected route is provided by a navigation system of the vehicle. The navigation system may include automatic guidance and anti collision systems as described herein. In another embodiment a route is entered by a graphical user interface in communication with processing circuit . A size limit may refer to any height width or length restriction e.g. a vertical or horizontal clearance . For example an overpass underpass or garage structure may have a 12 foot vertical clearance requirement for the vehicle to safely fit. For example different traffic lanes of a structure may have different size e.g. height or width restrictions. Size analysis module may compare a height measurement related to an updated contour to a height limit. As another example a road or alley may have a maximum navigable width of 7 ft. Size analysis module may compare length and width measurements related to an updated contour to a horizontal clearance. Based on a route of the vehicle size analysis module may determine the potential for collisions and susceptibility to size limits on the route. Size analysis module may compare the dimension of the updated contour as caused by protruding cargo to determine if the vehicle may safely navigate the route or would likely be obstructed by a size restriction. Upon determining that the vehicle would be susceptible to a size limit size analysis module may notify the navigation system of the vehicle of the condition and provide relevant data e.g. the size limit a location of the size limit lane dependent restrictions the updated contour and its dimensions etc. . As an example the navigation system may use the notification and provided data to determine an alternate route. In some embodiments upon determining that the vehicle would be susceptible to a size limit size analysis module may notify the structure posing the size limit of the vehicle s approach and the impact susceptibility.

In one embodiment a structure having a size restriction may e.g. via a computing device and a detector sensor identify an incident vehicle access its contour from a database and determine an impact susceptibility. For example the make or model of the vehicle may be identified e.g. by an optical recognition algorithm using camera data and its nominal contour determined from a manufacturer s database. The make or model information may be used to access the correct information in the database. The structure may also request an updated contour to be provided by the vehicle. In response the vehicle may transmit the updated contour information to the database or directly to the structure. In another example a more specific identification of the vehicle may be determined such as by imaging its license plate by electronically reading a vehicular RFID tag or by using a radio antenna to communicate with a radio transponder e.g. a Fast Pass electronic toll pass type electronic identifier etc. . The specific identification e.g. license plate number RFID information transponder information etc. may be used to access the correct information in the database including the contour information e.g. as a unique database key or ID etc. . The detector sensors used to identify the incident vehicle may be located at near the structure or may be located some distance in front of it e.g. mile away on an approaching road etc. . The contour information which may or may not reflect the effect of protrusions beyond the vehicle s nominal contour may be located in a database on the vehicle itself or in an external database. For example the database may belong to the vehicle s owner e.g. as identified via driver registration records . As another example the database may be maintained by a government agency by a website by the vehicle s insurance company or by the structure s owner e.g. for vehicles anticipated or authorized to use it and or may be accessible via a network connection. The contour information may include timing information indicating when it was last updated or for what date or time period the information is valid for. Based on the contour or updated contour information and the dimensions of the structure if the structure determines the incident vehicle poses an impact susceptibility it can initiate various responses. In one example it can warn the vehicle or driver. This notification can be made electronically e.g. to the vehicle s navigation system to an in vehicle display etc. audibly e.g. a buzzer vocal instructions etc. or visually e.g. a red green light a message on a display screen etc. . The notification may provide instructions to the vehicle on how to safely navigate the structure e.g. which lane to use etc. . The existence of the notification may be logged e.g. in a database for liability e.g. criminal or financial etc. purposes. In another example the structure may initiate protective measures such as emplacing a barrier to block access by the vehicle or deploying external bumpers or airbags. In some examples the structure may notify third parties such as emergency personnel nearby vehicles or the like of the impact risk.

Referring to a schematic of car is shown according to one embodiment. Car is equipped with the systems described herein and includes processing circuit and sensors integrated in various locations. For example sensors may include optical sensors configured to scan across the window area. Sensors may include cameras affixed to the front and back of roof of car . Sensors may include pressure sensors and capacitive sensors integrated into the seat and window sill areas. In one embodiment sensors may include an RFID sensor and driver may be wearing an RFID tag wristband. Any combination of sensors described herein is envisioned. Car further includes navigation system having anti collision features. The left arm of driver is depicted as protruding beyond the left boundary of contour . Sensors provide sensor data to processing circuit which detects the protruding extremity and compares it to contour . Processing circuit calculates the amount l that the arm of driver is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by the protruding arm. The width of contour is depicted as being updated along the entire left span of car . Updated contour also includes the areas of contour that were unaffected by the protruding arm. Updated contour is provided to navigation system .

Referring to a schematic of car is shown according to one embodiment. Car is equipped with the systems described herein and is similar to car . Car includes processing circuit however processing circuit of car is configured to generate locally updated contours. Car includes sensors coupled to car in various locations. Sensors may include any of the sensors described herein. Processing circuit calculates the amount l that the arm of driver is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by the protruding arm. Contour is depicted as being updated locally only around the area of the protruding arm. Updated contour also includes the areas of contour that were unaffected by the protruding extremity. Updated contour is provided to navigation system .

Referring to a schematic of robotically driven car is shown according to one embodiment. Car is equipped with the systems described herein and is similar to car . Car includes processing circuit and sensors . Navigation system is capable of driving car and includes automatic guidance systems and anti collision systems. Processing circuit calculates the amount that the arm of driver is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by the protruding arm. The width of contour is depicted as being updated along the entire right span of car although in another embodiment the contour may be updated locally. Updated contour is provided to navigation system which may be used the updated contour as it drives car and avoids collisions. In one embodiment car may be configured to be remotely piloted e.g. via a remote control .

Referring to a schematic of truck is shown according to one embodiment. Truck is equipped with the systems described herein and includes processing circuit and sensors integrated in various locations. For example sensors may include cameras configured to scan across the truck bed area. Sensors may also include a wide angle camera affixed to the roof of truck . Truck further includes navigation system including anti collision features. Truck may be manually driven remotely controlled or may be robotically driven by an automatic guidance system of navigation system . In one embodiment sensors may include an RFID sensor and an RFID tag may be coupled to the end of cargo e.g. wood . The ends of cargo are depicted as protruding beyond the rear boundary of contour . Sensors provide sensor data to processing circuit which detects the protruding cargo and compares it to contour . Processing circuit calculates the amount l that cargo is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by the protruding cargo. The width of contour is depicted as being updated along the entire rear span of truck although it may be also updated locally as described herein. Updated contour also includes the areas of contour that were unaffected by the protruding cargo . Updated contour is provided to navigation system .

Processing circuit is further configured to determining the susceptibility of the truck to a size limit based on updated contour. For example processing circuit may receive route and size limit information from navigation system . In another embodiment processing circuit may access a database of size limit information for or interface with a mapping application to determine a size limit. Based on the data from sensors processing circuit calculates the height h that cargo is extending. Processing circuit compares height h to a size limit e.g. a vertical clearance of a bridge or garage etc. to determine if truck is susceptible to the size limit or can safely navigate the size limit. In the event that processing circuit determines that height h is greater than the size limit processing circuit notifies navigation system of the condition.

Referring to a schematic of truck is shown according to one embodiment. Truck is equipped with the systems described herein and includes processing circuit and sensors at various locations. For example sensors may include cameras configured to scan across the truck bed area. Sensor may include pressure and capacitive sensors integrated into the seat of truck . Truck is connected to trailer which is also equipped with sensors . Sensors of trailer may include any of the sensors described herein. For example trailer sensors may include RFID sensors and RFID tags coupled to cargo . Truck further includes navigation system including anti collision features. Truck may be manually driven remotely controlled or may be robotically driven by an automatic guidance system of navigation system . In one embodiment trailer sensors may be configured to wirelessly communicate with processing circuit . One of the ends of cargo is depicted as protruding beyond the left boundary of contour . Additionally the arm of driver is depicted as extended beyond the left boundary of contour . Contour generally includes the dimensions and footprint of truck and trailer . Sensors provide sensor data to processing circuit which detects the protruding arm and the protruding cargo and compares it to contour . Processing circuit calculates the amount lthat the arm is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by the protruding arm. Processing circuit calculates the amount lthat the cargo is protruding and generates updated contour to include the additional space occupied by protruding cargo . The width of contour is depicted as being updated to include the dimensions of updated contour and updated contour to form an overall updated contour . In one embodiment in the case of multiple protrusions processing circuit may extend a single updated contour to compensate for all protrusions. For example if amount lis greater that amount l processing circuit may extend contour along the entire span of truck and trailer by amount l. In another embodiment processing circuit may update contour in a localized manner for each protrusion as described herein. Updated contour also includes the areas of contour that were unaffected by the protruding arm and protruding cargo . Updated contour is provided to navigation system .

Processing circuit is further configured to determining the susceptibility of the truck to a size limit based on updated contour . For example processing circuit may receive route and size limit information from navigation system . Processing circuit compares amounts land lto a size limit e.g. a width clearance of a road etc. to determine if truck and trailer are susceptible to the size limit or can safely navigate the size limit. In the event that processing circuit determines that amounts lor lare susceptible to the size limit processing circuit notifies navigation system of the condition.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for informing a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different actions may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of actions performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the cargo of the vehicle . The sensor may be on board the vehicle or may be external to it. The cargo may include an occupant s or object s . The contour of the vehicle including any trailers etc. is determined . The sensor data and contour is analyzed to detect a protrusion . If a protrusion is detected then the navigation system of the vehicle is notified . Data may be formatted and sent to the navigation system according to the specifications of the particular vehicle.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for informing a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different actions may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of actions performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the occupant. The contour of the vehicle is determined . The position of the occupant in the vehicle is analyzed using on the sensor data . A protruding extremity is estimated or inferred by comparing the analyzed position to a skeletal model and the contour . If a protruding extremity is inferred then the navigation system of the vehicle is notified .

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for informing a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the cargo . The contour of the vehicle is determined . The contour may be determined from the sensor data provided by a configuration file manually input via a user interface etc. The sensor data and contour is analyzed to detect protruding cargo . If protruding cargo is detected an updated contour of the vehicle is generated based on the protrusion . The updated contour may correspond to overall updated vehicle dimensions or the updated contour may be localized to a particular portion of the vehicle . The updated contour is provided to the navigation system of the vehicle . Data may be formatted and sent to the navigation system according to the specifications of the particular vehicle.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for informing a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the cargo including occupants and objects . The contour of the vehicle is determined . The contour may be determined from the sensor data provided by a configuration file manually input via a user interface etc. The position of an occupant and or object is analyzed using the sensor data . A protruding extremity of the occupant is estimated or inferred by comparing the analyzed position to a skeletal model and the contour . Data from a diagnostic system of the vehicle e.g. speedometer tire pressure system stability system etc. may be analyzed to infer a potentially protruding object . Alternatively a protruding object may be inferred based on knowledge of the object e.g. a model as described above. An updated contour of the vehicle is generated based on detected protrusions . The updated contour may correspond to overall updated vehicle dimensions or the updated contour may be localized to a particular portion of the vehicle . The updated contour is provided to the navigation system of the vehicle .

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for informing a navigation system of the vehicle of the protruding cargo is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the cargo . The contour of the vehicle is determined . The sensor data and contour is analyzed to detect protruding cargo . If protruding cargo is detected an updated contour of the vehicle is generated based on the protruding cargo . The updated contour is provided to an accessible database or another vehicle . Data may be transmitted wirelessly as described herein.

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle to a size restriction is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of the cargo . The contour of the vehicle is determined . The sensor data and contour is analyzed to detect protruding cargo . If protruding cargo is detected an updated contour of the vehicle is generated based on the protruding cargo . A size limit or restriction along the route of the vehicle is determined . The size limit may be provided by the navigation system of the vehicle a database or mapping application etc. The size limit is compared to the updated contour and protrusion to determine a susceptibility of vehicle to the size limit or restriction . If the vehicle including the protrusion is determined to be susceptible to a size limit and or restriction the navigation system of the vehicle is notified and is provided relevant data .

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for warning of the protruding body parts of a vehicle occupant is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Sensor data is acquired from a sensor where the sensor data is generally based on a position of cargo. The contour of the vehicle is determined . Protruding cargo is detected based on the sensor data and the contour of the vehicle . The navigation system of the vehicle is notified of the protrusion . A warning is also generated based on the protruding cargo and is output using a feedback device . For example the warning may include visual information displayed on a display screen or the warning information may be transmitted to another external device .

Referring to a flow diagram of a process for identifying a susceptibility of a vehicle approaching a structure to a size restriction of the structure is shown according to one embodiment. In alternative embodiments fewer additional and or different steps may be performed. Also the use of a flow diagram is not meant to be limiting with respect to the order of steps performed. Data is acquired from a detector configured to detect an approaching vehicle . The detector may include various sensors cameras etc. as described herein and may be located on the structure e.g. a garage an overpass a tunnel an bridge etc. near the structure or a distance from the structure. The vehicle is identified based on data from the detector . A database is accessed to determine a contour of the identified vehicle . The database is configured to store vehicle contour information and may be hosted by the systems of the vehicle by a third party or by the systems of the structure. The contour information may be based on the manufacturer specifications for the particular vehicle or may be an updated contour based on any protrusions or modifications of the vehicle. An updated contour may be generated as described herein and may be provided to the database by the vehicle. The size limit restriction of the structure and the contour of the vehicle are compared and based on the comparison the impact susceptibility of the vehicle is determined . Responsive to a determined susceptibility the vehicle or systems of the vehicle or a third party e.g. emergency responders police firefighters other vehicles etc. may be notified of the vehicle s susceptibility . The notification and details related to the event may also be logged in a database. Additionally protective measures such as a barrier or airbag and the like may be activated .

The construction and arrangement of the systems and methods as shown in the various embodiments are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure many modifications are possible e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. . For example the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing various operations. The embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented using existing computer processors or by a special purpose computer processor for an appropriate system incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system. Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Although the figures may show a specific order of method steps the order of the steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. All such variations are within the scope of the disclosure. Likewise software implementations could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

