---

title: System and method for collaborative programming of data entry workflows between system developers, end users, and third party developers
abstract: The present invention is a system for collaborative programming of data entry workflows between end users, Electronic Health Record (EHR) system developers, and third party developers. The system comprises application servers, database servers, an EHR, networked devices, and peripheral devices, all stored in a distributed computing environment. The database servers comprise databases, which host workflows programmed by end users, EHR developers, and third party developers. The system also has a secure network connection for data exchange between application and database servers, and networked devices. The EHR gathers patient health information, processes it and stores it in one of the databases. The system itself, stored in one of the application servers, uses a plurality of templates (form, system and external system) stored in one of the databases to interact with the peripheral devices connected to networked devices that expand the capabilities of the networked devices or the EHR itself.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304761&OS=09304761&RS=09304761
owner: 
number: 09304761
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130612
---
The present invention relates generally to data entry and processing. Specifically it provides a system and method for collaborative programming of data entry workflows between end users system developers and third party developers.

This method can be applied to any domain where record keeping is required. However it will be of greatest benefit to the field of healthcare.

Current healthcare regulations require medical providers to collect complete and accurate patient information during encounters. Collected data is used in diagnosis treatment insurance claims and pandemic reporting. Failure to document the unique needs of each patient could result in legal consequences or loss of life.

In order to comply with regulations providers adopted Electronic Health Record EHR or Electronic Medical Record EMR systems to track patient information. The core of EHR EMR systems comprise sequentially structured forms known as workflows which allow providers to capture health information e.g. heart rate blood pressure weight etc. . . . during patient encounters. In order to meet the unique and changing needs of patients providers must constantly create and modify workflows.

Prior art patents and other publications offer several attempts to meet these challenges. For example in a plurality of EHR EMR systems software developers code new workflows and modify existing workflows. As a result providers must plan the business logic submit a new workflow or workflow change request and follow an extensive revision and implementation cycle. This approach is inefficient and costly due to protracted back and forth communication between providers and software developers.

Other EHR EMR systems attempt to reduce the need for new workflows by adding free notation features that capture unstructured patient information. The resulting data requires a technician to manually code it into structured format thereby increasing inaccuracy due to human error.

Some prior art systems try to remedy the need for having system developers manually code workflows by allowing providers to create structured data fields. However the large number of fields makes capturing data cumbersome. Furthermore providers must constantly manage fields to prevent redundancy and data corruption.

Other prior systems describe methods of creating or modifying workflows to interface with third party peripheral devices so that data field values are automatically entered into workflows. Unfortunately current technology requires system developers to alter EHR EMR software each time the software must accommodate a new peripheral device. One skilled in the art would recognize this process as tedious and time consuming.

At least one system attempts to improve peripheral device integration by incorporating proprietary medical imaging machine interfaces into workflows. Differences among proprietary imaging device interfaces result in a lack of uniformity in terminology navigation and features. This lack of uniformity places an unnecessary burden on providers to learn the proprietary interface of each imaging device in order to use them effectively. The lack of uniformity also increases human error in patient data collection.

The above mentioned solutions as well as others are narrowly focused and inadequate for providing an efficient and effective means for creating and modifying workflows. Therefore it is readily apparent that there is a need for a system and method that allows collaborative programming of data entry workflows between end users system developers and third party developers.

Briefly described in a preferred embodiment the present invention overcomes the above mentioned disadvantages and meets the recognized need for such a device by providing a system and method for collaborative programming of data entry workflows between system developers end users and third party developers.

In the preferred embodiment collaborative programming is achieved via the creation modification and arrangement of templates and workflows by system developers end users and third party developers through the EHR EMR.

The EHR EMR comprises at least one server which comprises at least one application server at least one database server at least one template and at least one workflow. End users can directly and independently build new templates and workflows with a networked device over a secure network connection or modify those that are already in use.

Generally speaking system developers build and maintain the EHR EMR. Conversely third party developers create peripheral devices and or external systems that interface with the EHR EMR. In most cases end users are medical providers including but not limited to physicians physician assistants and nurse practitioners.

The EMR EHR collects all patient data gathered during a patient encounter e.g. provider notes imaging lab work vital signs with at least one workflow comprised of at least one sequentially ordered template. Three template types are used to meet the needs of end users form templates system templates and external system templates. Each template integrates unique functionality into workflows.

Form templates capture structured patient information with data fields e.g. combo boxes text boxes list boxes radio buttons and check boxes . System developers create a plurality of default form templates to address the most common needs of end users. If needed end users can create new form templates or modify existing form templates to meet their unique needs in a simple WYSIWYG what you see is what you get environment.

System templates provide more advanced functionality by capturing and processing information. System templates are built by system developers. End users input information into system templates in order to access advanced functionality built into the EHR EMR. Processed information can be stored as structured patient information. In one embodiment a system template searches for and schedules the next available appointment at a specified time with a specified provider.

External system templates provide complete integration with external devices and systems. Proprietary APIs application programming interfaces supply the framework for third party developers to seamlessly integrate external device functions into new and existing workflows. Each device function can be used independently when a specified condition is met. All types of users can specify said conditions.

Another feature of external system templates is interface uniformity. Prior art teaches systems where complex third party interfaces are displayed in windows. End users must select the proper functions of the peripheral device. The present invention allows third party developers to create situation specific external system templates that only display the required peripheral functions.

In one embodiment an end user is presented with an X Ray machine external system template after diagnosing a patient with a broken arm. The external system template has default settings for scanning a broken arm and is ready to initiate a scan with the push of a button. Scan setting defaults are based on the diagnoses or can be manually altered during patient encounters.

Templates are arranged into default workflows by system developers third party developers and end users. Workflows are automatically chosen for end users based on the chief complaint collected during check in. Unlike previous systems end users can modify workflows during patient encounters by manually inserting templates or inactive workflows without leaving the active workflow.

Templates and inactive workflows can also be automatically injected into active workflows based on symptoms or diagnoses. In one embodiment an external system template which controls an EKG machine is automatically inserted when the provider diagnoses a patient with chest pain. In another embodiment a smoker intake workflow is automatically inserted when the provider notes a patient as a smoker. In a further embodiment a diabetes well check workflow is inserted when the patient has been previously diagnosed with diabetes.

The present invention demonstrates significant advantages over prior art. One feature and advantage is increased EHR workflow functionality through seamless third party integration. Effectively peripheral devices will become plug and play. API integration allows third party developers to provide more robust and interoperable templates and workflows with their devices. Therefore peripheral devices will provide end users with unparalleled workflow efficiency out of the box.

Another feature and advantage is a uniform and friendly user interface. APIs and collaboratively programmed templates workflows provide intuitive user interfaces. Further novel use of the system s API ensures uniformity among all templates even when using third party devices thereby facilitating usability.

Still another feature and advantage is increased collaboration among system developers end users and third party developers. All parties collaboratively program and share EHR EMR components. Thus all parties can customize the EHR EMR to meet their own needs.

Yet still another feature and advantage is automatic template injection based on symptoms or diagnoses. Providers no longer have to remember important associations between certain symptoms and actions treatments. Thus the present invention reduces end users malpractice liability stemming largely from the omission of mandatory treatments or procedures.

A further feature and advantage is automatic selection of pertinent workflow s prior to patient encounters based on chief complaints. In prior art workflows were selected during patient encounters by the provider. Thus the present invention increases patient encounter efficiency.

It is to be noted that the drawings presented are intended solely for the purpose of illustration and that they are therefore neither desired nor intended to limit the invention to any or all of the exact details of the construction shown except insofar as they may be deemed essential to the claimed invention.

In describing the preferred and selected alternate embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. The present invention however is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner to accomplish similar functions. Embodiments of the claims may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed to be limited to the embodiments set forth herein. The examples set forth herein are non limiting examples and are merely examples among other possible examples.

Referring now to by way of example and not limitation there is illustrated an example embodiment of system for collaborative programming of data entry workflows between system developers end users and third party developers wherein system comprises computer apparatus patient data vendor data and workflow logic . Computer apparatus comprises machine readable medium distributed computing environment servers display device and secure communication links wherein servers comprise database servers application servers and API best shown in . Database servers comprise databases i.e. EHR database template database etc. and workflow logic . Workflow logic comprises workflow templates third party devices and third party services best shown in and . API comprises hooks to database servers application servers and external systems or devices . Application servers comprise applications i.e. EHR .

It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that distributed computing environment may be a LAN WAN VPN or any network configuration of electronic devices. It will further be recognized that application servers and database servers may function on separate computers best shown in or alternatively may function on the same computer not shown . It will further be recognized that in an alternate embodiment not shown computer apparatus may comprise a single computer that comprises both servers and display device .

Turning now to in use diagnostic professional end user interacts with the display device which displays the exemplary user interface utilizing the workflow logic wherein the end user selects a specialty specific workflow depending upon the nature of the patient encounter for example a general encounter and then decides whether to create new form templates comprised of additional end user workflows tailored to selections made by the end user or utilize existing form and system templates comprised of system developer workflows that automatically get inserted into the specialty specific workflow based on end user activity within the workflow. The end user then inserts patient data into the template s or . The inserted patient data then drives the workflow logic and is stored in the EHR system application on application server that stores in associated database .

Additionally from the same specialty specific workflow the end user has the ability to interact directly with third party services and or third party devices via third party controls via third party developer workflows comprised of external system templates . For example the end user can add a third party developer workflow for X ray imaging which utilizes third party controls that enable the X ray device to be controlled via an inserted X ray Imaging external template on the exemplary user interface on the display device . This functionality removes other interfaces that have to be controlled separately. By using an API third party systems and third party services can be seamlessly integrated where appropriate into workflows based on workflow logic and patient data best shown in .

Turning now more particularly to in an exemplary embodiment of an API external systems or devices interact with database servers and application servers through the API . This interaction essentially makes third party systems and devices plug and play for end users reducing complication and interface incompatibility. The database various elements variables object classes routines logic controls and data structures communicate with the API through associated hooks variable hook object classes hook routines hook logic hook controls hook and data structures hook . Likewise the application servers various elements variables object classes routines logic controls and data structures communicate with the API through associated hooks variable hook object classes hook routines hook logic hook controls hook and data structures hook 

It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that an API provides superior interoperability. Because APIs are common in the art but also understood to reveal security vulnerabilities when fully disclosed the lack of further disclosure herein does not represent an unwillingness to disclose but rather an acknowledgment and a sensitivity to the careful security measures in place in an exemplary embodiment and a recognition by those skilled in the art of the general concept and methodology of an API. Inherent in this concept and methodology is the fact that API configuration can differ substantially while still achieving the same results depending on the system in which they are integrated.

Turning now to the relationship between specialty specific workflows that utilize patient data and the workflow logic responsible for intelligently inserting additional workflows and templates into existing workflows is shown. The exemplary flow chart is a simple diagram of the decision making process included in the present invention. It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that the present invention is not intended to identify and limit itself to a single type of logic. Various types of logic can be used to achieve the same results. At step the end user populates a value in a specialty specific template to activate a control in the workflow or an additional template. From there step checks the populated value or activated control against whatever logic rules have been used i.e. branch logic guard logic etc. . The logic rule is then evaluated as TRUE or FALSE at step .

If the logic rule is evaluated as TRUE the value or activated control is then imported into the supplemental workflow template or question in the current workflow at step . On the other hand if the logic rule is evaluated as FALSE the value or activated control continues onto the next question in the current workflow or template at step . When the logic has fully evaluated the value or activated control and has ended i.e. in a return statement return to control flow etc. the process restarts with the next value or activated control back at step .

The foregoing description and drawings comprise illustrative embodiments of the present invention. Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the within embodiments are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Merely listing or numbering the steps of a method in a certain order does not constitute any limitation on the order of the steps of that method. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Although specific terms may be employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments illustrated herewith but is limited only by the following claims.

