---

title: System and method for private online social networking system and for time releasing pre-recorded digital content
abstract: A private online social networking system and method that provides time released dispersal of pre-recorded digital video and images wherein users record digital content such as videos and images at a first time, select from several system-generated, user specific criterion for future time release of the digital content to pre-selected recipients via the system or other third party services such as social networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09161070&OS=09161070&RS=09161070
owner: 
number: 09161070
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 745 767 filed on 25 Dec. 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 789 471 filed on 15 Mar. 2013 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The Disclosure relates generally to the creation and management of a private online social networking system and more specifically to the time released dispersal of pre recorded social networking content wherein the user creates digital video and images directly from a smartphone tablet personal computer or other capable computing device that is securely uploaded and automatically time released based on system generated future criterion.

According to the Go Gulf.com 2012 worldwide statistics 80 of humans own a mobile phone there are 91.4 million smartphones in the United States alone out of the 5 billion mobile phones in the world 1.08 billion are smartphones and 9 out of 10 smartphone users use their phone on a daily basis. In Feb. 16 2012 The Consumer Electronics Association CEA reported that consumers who are supplementing their digital photography with devices like smartphones and tablets and consider their smartphone to be their primary device for their photography needs has tripled in two years to 18 percent. Although consumers value the quality of digital cameras and camcorders they do not want to miss out on great moments that are easily captured by smartphones and tablets and spontaneously shared.

The average user spends 128 minutes on their smartphone every day according to a survey conducted by European telecom 2 Jul. 2012. Checking social networks and camera usage i.e. taking digital photos and recording digital videos ranks among the top activities.

With the advancements in infrastructure and Internet coupled with the surge in global smartphone and tablet usage access to social networks continually grow at a rapid pace spanning global demographics and socio economics.

Current social network systems lack real privacy and do not offer users the ability to securely store digital content. For example once users upload photos to Facebook it automatically becomes the property of Facebook and allows the social network to use all of the meta data associated with it including location places nearby the date time and even who s in the photo. Among other things the data is used to create user targeted ads and sold to advertising companies. Content that is private to users such as a sentimental video recorded for a child or an image intended for a single end recipient becomes exposed and runs the risk of being leaked or compromised.

Current social network systems simply allow users to upload disseminate and share digital content such as video and images to friends affiliates and the general public in the present state.

Various device vendors i.e. Apple Google and third party providers allow users to automatically store and retrieve digital content directly from smartphone tablets and computing devices however these vendor and third party systems are limited to simplified storage and retrieval of digital content and do not offer intelligent methods such as time releasing the digital content for future events.

Current social network systems prohibit direct access to another user s social network content. Even in the event of a user s demise only verified family members or affiliates can preserve and in some cases delete a dead user s social network content ergo dispersal of the dead user s digital content is not possible.

Collectively these advancements in technology and voids in social network systems present a need for a simplified private online social network system and method that provides users the ability to pre record digital video and images directly from a smartphone tablet personal computer or other capable computing device and automatically time release it based on system generated future criterion.

The disclosure relates to an online social networking system and method for time releasing pre recorded digital content. Users register and access the system through the smartphone or tablet application or website. Upon accessing the system users are prompted to record digital videos and images directly from their smartphone tablet personal computer or other capable computing device. The system suggests criterion to record the content for future delivery such as user specific life events special occasions daily life activities and other future events based on demographics lifestyle and location. The criterion is derived from information obtained from the user s registration or shared through third party services. Users select one of the system suggested criterion or input a custom one. Users then create digital videos and or images in the present state. The system automatically catalogs the videos and images in correct queues based on the selected criterion. Once the content has been created users then select the end recipients for the content. The end recipients can be selected from the system s local database invitation to join the system and subsequently become an end recipient third party or manual entry. Upon selecting the end recipients users then select the method of delivery for the content. Content can be delivered via the system or third party services. The content is then securely stored for future delivery. When the criterion is met the content is released to the pre selected end recipient via the pre selected delivery method.

In an ideal manifestation of the disclosure the system would be integrated with third party social networks such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google Orkut and others current and future. The system would allow users the option to release digital content to these third party social networks.

In another ideal manifestation of the disclosure the system would be integrated with external systems such as banks and insurance companies and allow for automated electronic notification based on future criterion such as a user s demise. This notification would prompt a hold or closure of the users accounts stopping fraudulent activities at the point of demise and in real time.

In yet another ideal manifestation of the disclosure the system would have a public interface that would allow users the option to share their digital content with the public upon their demise. Such would be the case for public figures such as celebrities politicians and sports figures as well as military personnel the elderly the ill individuals with high risk jobs and others.

In yet another ideal manifestation of the disclosure the system would be integrated with a digital music service provider. This would allow the user to purchase and overlay music to recorded videos and images.

The present disclosure relates to a private online social networking system and method that provides time released dispersal of pre recorded digital video and images. The system and method of the disclosure allows users to create digital videos and images directly from their smartphone tablet personal computer or other capable computing device then select from system generated criterion to deliver this digital content to designated end recipients. At the core of the disclosure is the notion that users can record videos and take images in the present state select from several system generated criterion that would allow for future time release of the videos and images to pre selected recipients by way of the system or third party services.

As an example of this approach assume on Monday a user records a video and take a pictures on their smartphone. The user can log into the private on line networking system and choose criterion for releasing the video and or a picture in the future. The criterion can include a number of different parameters such as the social network twitter Facebook Instagram etc. the selected recipients my sister parents best friend soccer team etc. and a timing of the release. For example assume the user who on Monday has a picture of her and her sister desires to post that picture on her sister s Facebook page on Friday which is her sister s birthday. The criterion chosen will enable the controlled release of that picture at the timing she desires. Then the user will not have to remember to do the posting manually herself on Friday. There can be several timings too. For example she could choose to post the picture on her sister s page Friday and then her parents Facebook page on the following Tuesday.

A system embodiment includes various hardware components generally known in computing devices. These includes but are not limited to processors graphical or central processors virtual processors or other types of processors a system bus memory of all types input and output components such as keyboards touch sensitive displays microphones speakers and so forth. Any desktop handheld tablet mobile or any other type of device now know or developed in the future can be included within the scope of a system embodiment. Typically a system will generally include a processor and a computer readable storage medium or device which stores computing instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform various functions or operations as disclosed herein.

Referring now to figures specifically a schematic diagram illustrating the user s connectivity to the system. The system web page and mobile application are configured to connect to the mobile device or tablet or a personal computer or other computing device via the Internet . Other networks such as a cellular network or any other type of connectivity could be utilized. Once a session is successfully established between the device and application connectivity is then established to the back end services .

As shown in the back end services include the system s infrastructure security computing and storage components. These components collectively make up the core services of the system.

Referring now to the components of the back end services is a block diagram illustrating the infrastructure components of the system that includes standard utilities and cabling physical connectivity and network services .

Once the criterion has been selected in the form of a theme or template the user selects end recipients from the system s existing user database or sends an invitation to the end recipients to join the system and subsequently become an end recipient of the pre recorded digital content. The invitation is sent via the system or third party services such as Facebook . Next the system automatically designates the delivery method via the system email or third party services such as social networks where the system integrates with social network sites like Facebook through it s publicly available Application Programming Interface API . The system also allows for a supplemental method for delivering content to end recipients that presently do not have an online presence or digital footprint but may possess one in the future such as children. Through a parameterized predictive modeling the system uses a proactive learning algorithm that can find matching parameters structure interactions and relationships from large data sets gathered from identifiable input from the user and publically available online data. For those special future criterion or cases where verification is needed to confirm delivery of the content in addition to or absence of the user s verification the system provides additional verification . One exemplary case is when a user selects the future criterion to pre record digital videos and images for a child s birthday or wedding to be released in the event of his or her demise to pre selected end recipients. The system will allow the user to preselect two or more verifiers users from the system . When a user selects future criterion and the verifiers the system generates a unique code and asks the verifiers to honor the user s request by reporting back to subsequently process the timely release of the digital content. Lastly the system generates a valid delivery time based on the user s selected criterion. The system then marks the transaction complete and restores or removes the videos and images accordingly .

The plurality of criterion includes a time for delivering the media an event which upon occurrence of the event triggers the delivering of the media a privacy threshold a recipient group characterization a recipient designation and a social media for delivering the media. The event could encompass any event that the system can monitor or receive data that the event has occurred. For example the death of the user a holiday a traffic jam a weather event such as a hurricane etc. Any event that the system can receive data about can be a triggering event that would cause the delivery of the media to the selected recipient or recipients. The recipient group characterization could be your soccer team your family your extended family including all cousins and aunts and uncles or friends over the age of 14. It can include characterizations such as work group plus friends having a closeness criterion of 7 out of 10 i.e. relatively good friends .

In another example the private online social networking system that provides time released dispersal of pre recorded digital video and images includes the following features. A web page and mobile application is configured to connect to mobile devices tablets personal computers or other computing devices via the Internet. The back end services provide the system s infrastructure security computing and storage components. A module within the system enables the creation of a living system profile record for each user and the ability to receive recorded media such as videos pictures texts etc. at a first time. The user can select a plurality of system generated criterion and or user defined criteria that allows for future delivery of the media to selected end recipients. The system enables the user to select the end recipient of the media. Once the media is identified the criterion for delivery and the end recipient the system manages the delivery of the media content to the selected recipient at a second time which is later than the first time and according to the criterion. The selected recipient may not at the first time have access to on line services at the first time but may have access later than the first time. One of the events that the system monitors for triggering delivery could be related to the on line access of the selected recipient.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage devices for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such tangible computer readable storage devices can be any available device that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as described above. By way of example and not limitation such tangible computer readable devices can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other device which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information or instructions are provided via a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable storage devices.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Various modifications and changes may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Claim language reciting at least one of a set indicates that one member of the set or multiple members of the set satisfy the claim.

