---

title: Systems, methods, and apparatus to monitor media presentations
abstract: Systems, methods and apparatus to monitor media presentations are disclosed. An example method includes identifying a household of panelists based on a public Internet Protocol address identified in tagging data transmitted by a media presentation device. A panelist is identified within the household of panelists based on metering data. A media source is identified based on the tagging data. Identification of the media presented in association with the tagging data based on at least one of the tagging data and the metering data is attempted. The panelist is credited with exposure to the identified media from the media source at a media presentation location associated with the public IP address when the media is identified. The panelist is credited with exposure to media from the media source at the media presentation location when the media is not identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210230&OS=09210230&RS=09210230
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09210230
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131226
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 473 319 which was filed on May 16 2012. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 473 319 is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to monitoring media presentations and more particularly to systems methods and apparatus to monitor media presentations.

Media providers and or metering entities such as for example advertising companies broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing listening and or media behavior of audience members and or the public in general. To collect these behaviors and or interests an audience measurement company may enlist panelists e.g. persons agreeing to have their media exposure habits monitored to cooperate in an audience measurement study. The viewing behavior of these panelists as well as demographic data about the panelists is collected and used to statistically determine e.g. project estimate etc. the size and demographics of a larger viewing audience.

In recent years increasing numbers of consumer devices have been provided with Internet connectivity and the ability to retrieve media from the Internet. In some cases these consumer devices enable reporting of metering data to metering entities.

As used herein the term media includes any type of content and or advertisement including television programming radio movies web sites etc. Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein identify media presentation devices and or types of media presentation devices used for media measurement. Such media presentation devices may include for example Internet enabled televisions personal computers Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone an iPod etc. video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 etc. tablet computers e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox a Tivo etc. etc. In some examples identifications of media presentation devices used in consumer locations e.g. homes offices etc. are aggregated to determine ownership and or usage statistics of available media presentation devices relative rankings of usage and or ownership of media presentation devices type s of uses of media presentation devices e.g. whether a device is used for browsing the Internet streaming media from the Internet etc. and or other type s of media presentation device information.

In some disclosed examples a media presentation device includes a network interface to transmit a request for media to be presented by the media presentation device. In such examples the media presentation device requests media from a media provider via a connected network e.g. the Internet . In some examples the request for media is a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP request a Session Initiation Protocol SIP message a domain name service DNS query a file transfer protocol FTP request and or any other type s of request.

Media monitoring entities collect audience measurement data using a number of different systems and or methods. In some examples audience measurement data is collected using Domain Name Service DNS query information by for example in manners similar to those disclosed in Besehanic et al. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 329 044 filed on Dec. 16 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Monitoring DNS query information enables the audience measurement entity to identify a media provider e.g. a media providing service such as Hulu Netflix Pandora Spotify iHeartRadio etc. a media presentation device used to present the media e.g. an Internet enabled television a gaming console a personal computer etc. a time that the media presentation device requested the IP address of the media provider etc. However DNS query information does not identify the particular media that is presented.

In some examples the audience measurement data is collected using a metering device e.g. a set top box installed at a location of a panelist e.g. a panelist s home . The example metering device collects metering information based on what is being presented in the vicinity of the metering device. In some examples the metering device identifies the presented media using codes and or signatures associated with the presented media. In some examples the metering information identifies the media presentation device and or the panelist associated with the media presentation. The metering information may not identify the source of the media e.g. may not identify a streaming service provider such as for example Hulu Netflix Pandora Spotify iHeartRadio etc. .

In some examples the audience measurement data is collected using tagging information. Tagging information enables monitoring of media that might not otherwise be identified by the metering device. To gather tagging information the media presentation device cooperates with the media provider and or a central facility of the audience measurement entity to send tagging information to the audience measurement entity. In particular an application of the media presentation device e.g. a browser a media presentation application etc. detects the presence of a tag associated with the media. In some examples the tag is implemented by metadata such as for example an ID3 tag. However any other method of tagging media may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example an HTML tag such as that disclosed in Blumenau U.S. Pat. No. 6 108 637 which is incorporated herein by reference. Tagging information identifies the presented media based on the identified tag s . In some examples the tagging information identifies the media presentation device used to present the media. In some examples the tagging information identifies the provider of the media. However not all media presentation devices and or applications thereof cooperate with the media provider and or the central facility to provide and or collect the tagging information.

With respect to monitoring DNS query information some networks utilize Internet Protocol IP for communication. Two schemes used to address network resources in IP networks are IP addresses and domain names.

The IP address scheme utilizes IP addresses assigned to network devices. For example a network device might be assigned an IP version 4 IPv4 address of 192.168.0.2. Any other past present and or future addressing scheme may additionally or alternatively be used e.g. IPV6 . In some examples more than one IP address might be associated with one network device. For example at a first time the network device might be identified by an IP address of 192.168.0.2 while at a second time the network device might be identified by a different IP address of 192.168.0.3.

Internet Service Providers ISPs typically provide a single public IP address for each media exposure measurement location e.g. a media presentation location a panelist household an internet caf an office etc. receiving Internet services. In some examples multiple devices e.g. media presentation devices are communicatively coupled by a local area network LAN at a media exposure measurement location. In some examples the LAN includes a router and or gateway that accesses another network e.g. the Internet using a single public IP address associated with the media exposure measurement location and then distributed media with in the LAN based on a private addressing scheme.

In some examples within the LAN individual media presentation devices are given private IP addresses in accordance with for example a dynamic host control protocol DHCP . When a media presentation device within the LAN transmits a request to a resource outside of the LAN e.g. on the Internet the router and or gateway translates the originating i.e. private IP address of the device making the query to the public address of the router and or gateway before relaying the request outside of the LAN e.g. to the Internet . Thus when a resource outside of the LAN receives the request the resource is able to transmit a return message e.g. a response to the LAN. On the return path the router and or gateway employs a local look up table to translate the destination IP address of the response received from the resource to the private IP address of the requesting device so that the return message may be delivered to the media presentation device that made the original request.

The second addressing scheme utilizes domain names. Domain names are human readable identifiers that identify a network resource. Example domain names include Amazon.com Google.com Nielsen.com HFZLaw.com etc. While an IP address of a network resource might change over time the domain name typically remains the same. Domain names typically remain the same because they are purchased by the media provider as a way for users to easily identify the service or media provided by the media provider. As the IP address of the media provider changes e.g. because the media provider is now hosting their service via a different server etc. the domain name is updated to be associated with the most recent IP address.

Domain names are accessible via a domain name service DNS server. The DNS server includes records that for example identify a current IP address associated with a domain name of interest. DNS servers providing DNS services provide for translation between domain names and IP addresses and vice versa. For example a domain name of mysite.com may translate to an IP address of 38.76.48.143 a domain name of subdomain1.mysite.com may translate to 38.76.48.144 and a domain name of subdomain2.mysite.com may translate to 43.47.167.134 . To access a network resource via a domain name a network device first requests an IP address associated with the domain name of the network resource from a DNS server. Such a request is sometimes referred to as a DNS query or a DNS lookup. The DNS server provides a response to the DNS query and or DNS lookup indicating the IP address associated with the requested domain name. The network device can then send a content request via the Internet to the network resource at the received IP address.

In accordance with teachings of this disclosure one or more DNS servers are used to track DNS queries and or the devices making such queries. DNS queries are indicative of the identified media presentation devices requesting media from a media provider because requests for media are typically preceded by a DNS query. Therefore DNS queries may be of interest to a media monitoring company. In some examples a DNS server stores records of what domain names were queried and the originator of the DNS query. Thus DNS queries from a particular household for a server and or resource of a media provider may be indicative of media presentations associated with the corresponding media provider in the particular household.

While a given media exposure measurement location can be identified by the public IP address assigned by the ISP and identified in a DNS query e.g. via a DNS lookup individual devices within the media exposure measurement location cannot be identified as easily. In some examples disclosed herein to identify media presentation devices within the media exposure measurement location the media presentation devices are each assigned to separate DNS servers. Thus although requests for media and or DNS lookups are made from the household using the same public IP address DNS lookup queries for a first device in the LAN household are directed to a first DNS server while DNS queries for a second device in the LAN household are directed to a second different DNS server. Although both DNS lookups are performed using the same public IP address the different DNS servers addressed inherently identify which of the devices in the LAN household are responsible for the DNS query. Thus in some examples disclosed herein multiple DNS servers are used to associate media requests with different devices within the media exposure measurement location. In some examples one DNS server is provided per media presentation device within the media exposure measurement location. Thus each media presentation device within the media exposure measurement location is associated with a respective different DNS server.

For example a first device e.g. an Internet enabled television is assigned to a first DNS server. The association may be done for example by the respective gateway of the LAN which is programmed to send DNS queries from the first device within the LAN to the first DNS server and DNS queries from a second device to a second DNS server etc. Additionally or alternatively the association may be done by the respective gateway of the LAN when DNS settings are communicated to each media presentation device e.g. during a DHCP procedure . Because the DNS server or a device analyzing logs of the DNS server knows that DNS queries from the public IP address of the monitored LAN originate with a particular device e.g. the first device within the LAN when the first device transmits a DNS query to the first DNS server the first DNS server or the device analyzing the logs of the first DNS server is able to associate the DNS query with the media exposure measurement location via the public IP address as well as associate the DNS query with the first device via the media presentation device to DNS server association.

Some example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein are employed at a media exposure measurement location having multiple media presentation devices. Some of these example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture are employed at a location interposed between the media presentation devices and a wide area network WAN such as the Internet that includes one or more media providers that provide media in response to request s from the media presentation devices. Some example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein intercept and or record outgoing messages to the WAN e.g. requests from media presentation devices on the same LAN as the intercepting method apparatus or article of manufacture .

While monitoring DNS information enables identification of the media provider and or the media presentation device DNS information typically does not enable identification of the presented media. Thus metering data e.g. data identified by a metering device and or tagging data e.g. data used during trackback monitoring are used to identify media presentations.

In some examples monitoring media using metering data involves identifying metadata codes and or signatures associated with media being presented. In examples illustrated herein a meter e.g. a set top box is installed at a location of a panelist e.g. a home . The example meter collects monitoring information based on what is being presented in the vicinity of the meter. In some examples the meter detects metadata video and or audio signals to identify the media. In some examples the meter identifies the presented media using codes and or signatures associated with the presented media. The meter stores e.g. caches buffers etc. the identified metadata codes and or signatures and transmits the stored information to the audience measurement entity for analysis.

Identification codes such as watermarks ancillary codes etc. may be transmitted with and or within media signals. Identification codes are data that are transmitted with media e.g. inserted into the audio video or metadata stream of media to uniquely identify broadcasters and or media e.g. content or advertisements and or are associated with the media for another purpose such as tuning e.g. packet identifier headers PIDs used for digital broadcasting . Codes are typically extracted using a decoding operation.

Signatures are a representation of some characteristic of the media signal e.g. a characteristic of the frequency spectrum of the signal . Signatures can be thought of as fingerprints. They are typically not dependent upon insertion of identification codes in the media but instead preferably reflect an inherent characteristic of the media and or the signal transporting the media. Systems to utilize codes and or signatures for audience measurement are long known. See for example Thomas U.S. Pat. No. 5 481 294 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Using the meter at the location of the panelist enables identification of the media being presented and media events associated therewith e.g. a start of a media presentation an end of a media presentation etc. . However in some cases it is difficult for the meter to identify the media presentation device and or the source of the presented media e.g. Hulu Netflix Pandora Spotify iHeartRadio etc. . When combined with DNS monitoring information it is possible to identify the media presentation device the media and the source of the presented media.

In some examples the meter might not be able to identify media. For example if a tablet computer e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. is used to present media the meter might not detect the presentation of the media. In some examples the meter might detect the presentation of the media but might not be able to identify the media because for example the code and or signature associated with the media are not intelligible. To compensate for such a scenario tagging data is additionally or alternatively used to identify what media is presented.

The example media provider of the illustrated example of comprises one or more servers providing Internet media e.g. web pages videos images etc. . The example media provider may be implemented by any provider s of media such as a digital media broadcaster multicaster or unicaster e.g. a cable television service a fiber optic television service an IPTV provider etc. and or an on demand digital media provider e.g. an Internet streaming video and or audio services such as Netflix YouTube Hulu Pandora Last.fm etc. a web page and or any other provider of media. Additionally or alternatively the example media provider may not be on the Internet. For example the media providers may be on a private a virtual private and or semi private network e.g. a LAN .

The example network of the illustrated example of is a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. However in some examples local networks may additionally or alternatively be used. For example multiple networks may be utilized to couple the components of the example system to monitor media presentations.

The example media presentation location of the illustrated example of is a panelist household. However the media presentation location may be any other location such as for example an internet caf an office an airport a library a non panelist home etc. While in the illustrated example a single media presentation location is shown any number and or type s of media exposure measurement locations may additionally or alternatively be used.

The example network gateway of the illustrated example of is a router that enables the media presentation devices to communicate with the network e.g. the Internet . In some examples the network gateway includes gateway functionality such as modem capabilities. In some other examples the example network gateway is implemented in two or more devices e.g. a router a modem a switch a firewall etc. . In some examples the example network gateway hosts a LAN for the media exposure presentation location . In the illustrated example the LAN is a wireless local area network WLAN and allows the media presentation devices to transmit and receive data to and or from the Internet. Alternatively the network gateway may be coupled to such a LAN.

The example media presentation devices of are devices that retrieve media from the example media provider for presentation at the media exposure measurement location . In some examples the media presentation devices are capable of directly presenting media e.g. via a display while in some other examples the media presentation devices present the media on separate media presentation equipment e.g. speakers a display etc. . Thus as used herein media presentation devices may or may not be able to present media without assistance from a second device. Media presentation devices are typically consumer electronics. For example the first media presentation device of the illustrated example is an Internet enabled television and thus is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via an integrated display and speakers . The second media presentation device of the illustrated example is a gaming console e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 etc. and employs additional media presentation equipment e.g. a television speakers etc. to present media. In some examples one or more of the media presentation devices of the illustrated example is a personal computer e.g. a tablet a notebook computer a desktop computer etc. which presents media via an associated display device which may or may not be integral to the computer. While in the illustrated example an Internet enabled television and a gaming console are shown any other type s and or number s of media presentation device s may additionally or alternatively be used. For example Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone an iPod etc. video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 etc. tablet computers e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox a Tivo etc. personal computers e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook etc. etc. may additionally or alternatively be used. Thus while in the illustrated example two media presentation devices are shown any number of media presentation devices may be used.

The example meter of the illustrated example of includes a network communicator a media identifier a timestamper and a metering data store . The example meter identifies media presentation events e.g. start events stop events etc. and identifies the presented media associated with those events. In some examples the meter includes people metering functionality which detects individual panelists present in the vicinity of the meter to identify individuals to whom the identified media was presented. In some examples this functionality is provided by a separate people meter.

The example network communicator of the illustrated example of is an Ethernet interface. In the illustrated example the network communicator transmits metering data identified by the meter to the central facility via the network . While in the illustrated example the network communicator is an Ethernet interface any other type s of interface may additionally or alternatively be used. For example the network communicator might include one or more of a Bluetooth interface a WiFi interface a digital subscriber line DSL interface a T interface etc. While in the illustrated example a single network communicator is shown any number and or type s of network communicators may additionally or alternatively be used.

The example media identifier of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s or analog and or digital other circuitry. In the illustrated example the media identifier identifies media presentation events from data and or signals collected by and or input to the meter in any manner e.g. free field audio detected by the meter with a microphone exposed to ambient sound . In the example of the media identifier extracts and or analyzes codes and or signatures from data and or signals collected by and or input to the meter . The metadata codes signatures and or identifications of the media are stored in the metering data store .

The example timestamper of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other analog and or digital circuitry. The media identifier and the timestamper may be implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example of the timestamper timestamps media identifications stored in the metering data store by the media identifier. Timestamping e.g. recording a time and or a date that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented with persons in the audience.

The example metering data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the metering data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the metering data store is illustrated as a single database the metering data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases.

The example central facility of the illustrated example is implemented by one or more servers that collect and process audience measurement data e.g. metering data DNS requests tagging data etc. from the media presentation devices and or the meter e.g. via the gateway to generate media monitoring information and or reports. The central facility analyzes the audience measurement data to identify for example which media presentation devices are the most frequently owned which media presentation device are the most frequently used which media presentation device are the least frequently owned which media presentation device are the least frequently used which media providers are the most least frequently used when particular media is presented and or any other media statistics or information that may be determined from the data. In some examples the central facility analyzes the audience measurement data to identify the most least frequently used type s of media presentation devices for particular type s and or genre s of media. The audience measurement data may also be correlated or processed with factors such as demographic and or geodemographic data e.g. a geographic location of the media exposure measurement location age s of the panelist s associated with the media presentation location an income level of a panelist etc. to facilitate extrapolation and or projection of media exposure to population s of interest. Media presentation device information may be useful to manufacturers and or advertisers to determine which features should be improved determine which features are popular among users identify geodemographic trends with respect to media presentation devices identify market opportunities develop and or create advertisements and or advertisement campaigns determine amounts to be paid for advertisements and or otherwise evaluate their own and or their competitors products and or marketing efforts. Media provider information may be useful to media providers advertisers etc. to determine costs of advertisements broadcast by the media provider comparative levels of customers that use different media providers etc.

The example registrar of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s or other circuitry. In the example of the registrar receives registration data and or information from a panelist and creates a record identifying the panelist and or their respective media presentation devices . The registration data is then stored in the panelist information data store in or in association with the record. In the illustrated example the received registration data includes demographic information. However any other information may additionally or alternatively be collected. The registration data may include for example information identifying the type s number s model s etc. of media presentation device s associated with the panelist a physical mailing address associated with the panelist an email address associated with the panelist information regarding how the panelist receives Internet services e.g. Internet Service Provider ISP information a unique identifier of the panelist e.g. a public IP address associated with the panelist and or any combination or derivation of any information related to the panelist and or media presentation device s the age of the panelist the gender of the panelist the race of the panelist the marital status of the panelist the income of the panelist and or the household of the panelist the employment status of the panelist where the panelist typically intends to use their media presentation device s how long the panelist has owned their device s the education level of the panelist and or any other information related to the panelist or the media presentation device s . The panelist information data store of the illustrated example reflects any relationships between panelists such as for example which panelists belong to the same household.

In the illustrated example the registration data is received by the registrar via an electronic interface e.g. by a panelist entering data into a form at a website or answering survey questions at a website . However the registrar may receive the registration data in other ways. For example the registrar may receive the registration data via a personal interview by telephone and or in person an automated telephone interface direct mailing purchased lists a third party service etc. While the registrar of the illustrated example is an electronic system the registrar may alternatively be implemented manually by a person or group of people collecting and or entering the registration data into the panelist information data store .

Upon receiving the registration data the registrar of the illustrated example creates a record associating the panelist the media presentation device s associated with the panelist and the collected demographic information. The registrar of the illustrated example also assigns a unique alphanumeric identifier to the panelist or media presentation device s . The identifier may be based on for example a model number and or type of the media presentation device. The record is stored in the panelist information data store . In the illustrated example the registrar determines a public IP address associated with the panelist and or media exposure measurement location and stores the public IP address in the record or in association with the record for that panelist and or media exposure measurement location. In some examples the registrar determines the public IP address associated with the panelist and or media exposure measurement location by performing a DNS lookup. Additionally or alternatively the registrar might determine the public IP address associated with the panelist and or media exposure measurement location by inspecting an IP address field of the registration data when the registration data is submitted electronically.

In some examples when an ISP assigns a public IP address to a media exposure measurement location the public IP address is a dynamic IP address. Dynamic IP addresses are typically leased to media exposure measurement locations for a specified period of time e.g. one week one month etc. . Upon expiration of the specified period of time a different public IP address may be assigned to the media exposure measurement location. Thus the registrar may receive a public IP address associated with the media exposure measurement location that becomes invalid or assigned to a different media exposure measurement location upon expiration of the IP address lease. Accordingly in some examples a dynamic DNS system is used to associate a media exposure measurement location with a dynamic IP address. When the public IP address of the media exposure measurement location changes a device on the LAN e.g. the network gateway the media presentation devices the meter etc. updates a dynamic DNS record hosted by a dynamic DNS service to associate a dynamic DNS domain name with the newly leased public IP address. In some examples the registrar monitors the dynamic DNS domain name at the dynamic DNS service to determine if the public IP address associated with the media exposure measurement location has changed and upon detecting a change updates the records stored in the panelist information data store . In some examples the registrar monitors the dynamic DNS service to determine the domain name associated with a public IP address via for example a reverse domain name service query. In some examples the registrar hosts the dynamic DNS service and updates the records stored in the panelist information data store upon receiving a notification from a device on the LAN e.g. the network gateway the media presentation devices the meter etc. that the public IP address associated with the media exposure measurement location has changed.

In some examples the registrar associates the media presentation devices with a corresponding query processor . In the illustrated example each media presentation device sharing a same public IP addresses is associated with a different query processor . However media presentation devices from different media exposure measurement locations i.e. having different public IP addresses may be associated with the same query processor . When associating the media presentation devices with a specific query processor the registrar of the illustrated example balances the number of media presentation devices associated with various query processors . For example if a particular query processor is associated with a large number of media presentation devices e.g. ten thousand devices the registrar may associate the media presentation device with another different query processor that is presently associated with fewer media presentation devices.

In the illustrated example after the registrar has received registration data and associated the media presentation devices with the corresponding query processors the registrar of the illustrated example creates an instruction document. The instruction document of the illustrated example instructs the panelist to enter information regarding the DNS server association into the media presentation device s associated with the panelist and or the media presentation location . Additionally or alternatively the instruction document may instruct an installer from a media monitoring company or anyone else who may configure and or program the media presentation device s and or . In the illustrated example the instruction document is electronically transmitted to the panelist. For example the instruction document may be transmitted to an email address associated with the panelist. However in some examples the instruction document is physically sent to the panelist e.g. by mailing a printed form of the instruction document through a postal service such as the U.S. mail etc. .

The example panelist information data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the panelist information data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the panelist information data store is illustrated as a single database the panelist information data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases and or may be combined with any other database such as for example the metering data store the DNS data store and or the tagging data store .

The example metering data receiver is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC PLD FPLD and or other circuitry. The registrar and or the metering data receiver may be implemented by the same physical processor. In the example of the metering data receiver receives metering data from the meter and stores a record identifying the panelist the media that was identified and or identifying information thereof etc. The metering data is stored in the metering data store . In the illustrated example the received metering data includes a panelist identifier a timestamp identifying a media presentation event e.g. a start a stop etc. a type of the media presentation event data associated with the media presentation event a detected media presentation device etc. However any other information may additionally or alternatively be collected.

The example metering data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the metering data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the metering data store is illustrated as a single database the metering data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases and or may be combined with any other database such as for example the panelist information data store the DNS data store and or the tagging data store .

The central facility of the illustrated example includes one or more query processor s . In the illustrated example each media presentation device within a particular media presentation location e.g. the location is associated with a respective different query processor . Thus when a given query processor receives a DNS query from a public IP address of the particular media presentation location the central facility is able to inherently identify the media device that originated the query based on a public IP address of the media exposure measurement location e.g. the location because all requests from that given public IP address come from a certain media presentation device. In other words the combination of the network address of the query processor e.g. a destination address and the originating public IP address e.g. the originating address specifically identifies a particular originating device e.g. a media presentation device . The requests and or identifying information thereof are stored in the DNS data store .

Each query processor of the illustrated example of implements is implemented at or is otherwise associated with a respective DNS server. Each query processor may receive DNS queries from the same public IP address of the monitored location e.g. the location . In some examples each query processor responds to a DNS query with the same requested DNS information in the same manner as a conventional DNS server. In other examples the query processor does not actually return the requested DNS information in response to a DNS query but instead responds to the DNS query with a redirect message to redirect the querying device e.g. a media presentation device to a different DNS server. In some such examples the query processor may not be implemented by and or implement a conventional DNS server but instead may be thought of as a pseudo DNS server whose function is to log DNS queries and to redirect such queries to a conventional DNS server for service but which does not actually contain a domain name to IP address lookup table.

In examples where more than one query processor s are used the query processor s are identified by different IP addresses. For example a first query processor might have a first IP address while a second query processor might have a second IP address different from the first IP address. Thus when respective media devices e.g. media presentation devices are associated with respective ones of the query processors a first media device may be associated with and should make DNS queries to the first IP address e.g. to the first query processor while a second media device may be associated with and should make DNS queries to the second IP address e.g. to the second query processor . Further in some examples virtual IP addresses are used thereby enabling multiple query processor s to be associated with a single physical connection to the network .

Each of the query processors of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but they could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry. The query processors the registrar and or the metering data receiver may be implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the query processors function as pseudo DNS server s e.g. a DNS server with no translation functionality and respond to DNS queries with DNS redirect messages. In some examples some or all of the query processors implement conventional DNS servers where the query processors receive DNS queries and respond to the queries with the requested DNS information. In some examples some or all of the query processors function as DNS proxies and retrieve DNS information from a separate DNS server on behalf of the DNS query originating device. Additionally or alternatively the query processors may cache and or store DNS information from the separate DNS server so that DNS information may more quickly be transmitted in response to future received DNS queries.

The example DNS data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the DNS data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the DNS data store is illustrated as a single database the DNS data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases and or may be combined with any other database such as for example the panelist information data store the metering data store and or the tagging data store .

The example tag data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but they could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry. The the registrar the metering data receiver query processors and or the tag data receiver may be implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example the tag data receiver receives tagging data from the media presentation devices . In the illustrated example the tagging data includes an IP address and or an identifier of the panelist a timestamp and or data representing and or indicative of the presented media.

The example tagging data store of the illustrated example of may be implemented by any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. Furthermore the data stored in the tagging data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the tagging data store is illustrated as a single database the tagging data store may be implemented by any number and or type s of databases and or may be combined with any other database such as for example the panelist information data store the metering data store and or the DNS data store .

The timestamper of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other analog and or digital circuitry. The registrar the metering data receiver the query processors the tag data receiver and or the timestamper may be implemented by the same physical processor. In the illustrated example of the timestamper timestamps data and or information received by the registrar the metering data receiver the query processors and or the tag data receiver upon receipt. Timestamping e.g. recording a time and or date that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented and or the time that it was presented.

The example correlator of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry. The correlator may be implemented on the same physical processor as the registrar the metering data receiver the query processors the tag data receiver and or the timestamper . In the illustrated example the correlator correlates data and or information stored in the panelist information data store the metering data store the DNS data store and or the tagging data store . The correlator identifies the media exposure measurement location and or the panelist by associating the public IP address of received DNS queries with a record of the public IP address associated with the media exposure measurement location stored in the panelist information data store . In some examples the correlator identifies a DNS query originating device e.g. a media presentation device of the DNS query based on the association of the query processor and the media exposure measurement location stored in the panelist information data store .

The example audience measurement processor of the illustrated example of credits the panelist associated with the media presentation location and or the media presentation device with an exposure to the media identified in the received metering data e.g. the data received by the metering data receiver the DNS data e.g. the data received by the query processor s and or the tagging data e.g. the data received by the tag data receiver . In the illustrated example the audience measurement processor is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry. The audience measurement processor may be implemented on the same physical processor as the registrar the metering data receiver the query processors the tag data receiver the timestamper and or the correlator .

The example reporter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry. The reporter may be implemented on the same physical processor as the registrar the metering data receiver the query processors the tag data receiver the timestamper the correlator and or the audience measurement processor . The reporter generates reports indicative of media exposure metrics based on one or more different types of client devices e.g. personal computers portable devices mobile phones tablets etc. . For example the reporter compiles media exposure metrics based the correlation of the metering data the DNS data and or the tagging data and or on the crediting thereof. A report is then generated based on the crediting performed by the audience measurement processor to indicate exposure measurements e.g. for a type of media e.g. a genre using different types of client devices. In some examples the exposure measurements indicate ratings information for different media e.g. a particular television show a particular website a particular movie etc. In some examples the exposure measurements indicate ratings information for different media providers. However in some other examples the report identifies information specific to particular types of media. Thus for example reports indicating the popularity of watching for instance sports events on certain types of client devices e.g. mobile devices tablets etc. can be compared to other popularities of watching sports events on other types of client devices e.g. televisions personal computers etc. .

Additionally or alternatively popularities of different types of media across different device types may be reported. Such different types of media may be for example news movies television programming on demand media Internet based media games streaming games advertisements etc. Such comparisons may be made across any type s and or numbers of devices including for example cell phones smart phones dedicated portable multimedia playback devices iPod devices tablet computing devices e.g. an iPad standard definition SD televisions high definition HD televisions three dimensional 3D televisions stationary computers portable computers Internet radios etc. Any other type s and or number of media and or devices may be analyzed. The report may also associate the media exposure metrics with demographic segments e.g. age groups genders ethnicities etc. corresponding to the user s of the client device s . Additionally or alternatively the report may associate the media exposure metrics with metric indicators of the popularity of the artist genre song title etc. across one or more user characteristics selected from one or more demographic segment s one or more age group s one or more gender s and or any other user characteristic s .

In some examples the media exposure metrics are used to determine demographic reach of streaming media ratings for streaming media engagement indices for streaming media user affinities associated with streaming media broadcast media and or any other audience measure metric associated with streaming media and or locally stored media. While in the illustrated example the media exposure metrics are used to provide information for streaming media the media exposure metrics may be used to provide information for any other type of media such as for example websites non streaming media etc. In some examples the media exposure metrics are audience share metrics indicative of percentages of audiences for different device types that accessed the same media. For example a first percentage of an audience may be exposed to news media via smart phones while a second percentage of the audience may be exposed to the same news media via tablets.

While in the illustrated example the IP addresses the panelist identifiers and the demographic information are stored in the same data table in some examples the IP addresses the panelist identifiers and the demographic information may be stored in separate data tables. For example the IP addresses and the panelist identifiers may be stored in a first data table while the panelist identifiers may be stored in a second data table .

In the example of the record indicates that the meter associated with the first panelist identified a media start event at 7 00 PM with respect to a presentation by the Internet television . The record indicates that the meter associated with the first panelist identified that television show A was presented by the Internet Television at 7 03 PM . While in the illustrated example the television show A is identified any other media may additionally or alternatively be identified such as for example advertisements radio etc. The record indicates that the meter associated with the first panelist identified a media stop event at 8 00 PM with respect to the presentation by the Internet television .

In the example of the record indicates that the meter associated with the first panelist identified a media start event at 9 30 PM with respect to a presentation by the gaming console . In the illustrated example the media presented by the gaming console is not identified by the meter . However as explained in connection with and or the received tagging data enables the media presented by the gaming console to be identified. The record indicates that the meter associated with the first panelist identified a media stop event at 10 00 PM with respect to a presentation by the gaming console .

In the illustrated example the record indicates that the meter associated with the second panelist identified a media start event at 10 30 PM with respect to a presentation by the Internet television . In the illustrated example the media presented by the Internet television is not identified by the meter and is not identified by tagging data. However as explained in connection with the correlator is able to determine that media was presented via the domain via the Internet television . The record indicates that the meter associated with the second panelist identified a media stop event at 11 30 PM with respect to a presentation by the Internet television .

While in the illustrated example each record indicates a particular event e.g. a media start event a media stop event a media identification event etc. any other data table configuration may additionally or alternatively be used. For example each record may indicate a media start event a media stop event whether the media was identified and or identification data for the identified media.

In the example of the first record of the example data view includes the panelist identifier the timestamp indicating that the television show A was identified at 7 03 PM. The first record further identifies that the media was provided by Netflix.com and was presented via the Internet television . The second record of the example data view includes the panelist identifier the timestamp indicating that the television show B was identified at 9 31 PM. The second record further identifies that the media was provided by Hulu.com and was presented via the gaming console . The third record of the example data view includes the panelist identifier the timestamp indicating that media was presented at 10 30 PM. The third record does not identify the media that was presented but does identify that the media was provided by Hulu.com and was presented via the Internet television .

The meter identifies and records the media start event e.g. record block and attempts to identify the presented media block . In the illustrated example the meter identifies the presented media using any media identification method s e.g. metadata codes and or signatures that identify the media. The meter then stores the media identification e.g. record block . The media presentation device ends the media presentation block . Responsive to the end of the media presentation the meter identifies and records a media stop event e.g. record block . The meter then electronically transmits the stored records to the metering data receiver of the central facility block . While in the illustrated example the records are stored at the meter and then electronically transmitted to the metering data receiver of the central facility the records may be transmitted in any other fashion. For example the records may be electronically streamed to the central facility the records may be stored and then physically transferred e.g. by mailing the meter to the central facility .

The meter of the illustrated example identifies and records the media start event e.g. record block . Because the media includes a tagging instruction the second media presentation device transmits the tagging information to the tag data receiver block . The tag data receiver stores the received tag data in the tagging data store . Meanwhile the meter attempts to identify the presented media block . In the illustrated example the meter does not identify the media. The meter might not identify the media for any number of reasons such as for example an audio and or video signal associated with the media presentation is not loud enough to facilitate identification of a code and or signature the media presentation device e.g. a tablet a laptop etc. may not be near the meter etc. The media presentation device ends the media presentation block . Responsive to the end of the media presentation the meter identifies and records a media stop event e.g. record block . The meter then electronically transmits the stored records to the metering data receiver of the central facility block . While in the illustrated example the records are stored at the meter and then electronically transmitted to the metering data receiver of the central facility the records may be transmitted in any other fashion. For example the records may be electronically streamed to the central facility the records may be stored and then physically transferred e.g. by mailing the meter to the central facility .

While in the illustrated example the presentation by the media presentation device e.g. a gaming console is detected as streaming media from a media provider e.g. Hulu.com the media presentation device may be involved in any other type of media presentation such as for example a game e.g. a video game played by an Xbox etc. . As such the correlator may identify that media was not streamed and that the media presentation device and or the panelist should be credited with playing the game.

While an example manner of implementing the meter of and or the central facility of and or has been illustrated in and or one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in and or may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example network communicator the example media identifier the example timestamper the example metering data store the example meter the example registrar the example metering data receiver the example query processors the example tag data receiver the example timestamper the example correlator the example audience measurement processor the example reporter and or more generally the example central facility of and or may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example network communicator the example media identifier the example timestamper the example metering data store the example meter the example registrar the example metering data receiver the example query processors the example tag data receiver the example timestamper the example correlator the example audience measurement processor the example reporter and or more generally the example central facility of and or could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example network communicator the example media identifier the example timestamper the example metering data store the example meter the example registrar the example metering data receiver the example query processors the example tag data receiver the example timestamper the example correlator the example audience measurement processor the example reporter and or the example central facility of and or are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example network communicator the example media identifier the example timestamper the example metering data store the example meter the example registrar the example metering data receiver the example query processors the example tag data receiver the example timestamper the example correlator the example audience measurement processor the example reporter and or the example central facility of and or may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the example meter of are shown in and or . Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the example central facility of and or are shown in and or . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowchart illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing the example meter and or the example central facility may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended. Thus a claim using at least as the transition term in its preamble may include elements in addition to those expressly recited in the claim.

If a media presentation event is not detected the media identifier continues to attempt to identify a media presentation event block . If a media presentation event is detected the media identifier stores an indication of the media presentation event in the metering data store block . In the illustrated example the media identifier stores a panelist identifier an identifier of the event e.g. a media start event a media stop event and an identified media presentation device. The timestamper stores a timestamp of the media presentation event block .

The media identifier determines whether the recorded media presentation event indicates that the media presentation event was a media start event block . If the media presentation event was not a media start event control returns to block where the media identifier continues to determine if a media event is detected block . If the media presentation event was a media start event the media presenter attempts to identify the presented media block . In the illustrated example the media presenter attempts to identify the presented media by detecting codes and or signatures associated with the presented media. However any other method of identifying the presented media may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example by detecting an identifier of the media through an API of the media presentation device etc.

If the presented media is not identified by the media identifier block control proceeds to block where the media identifier continues to determine if a media event is detected. If the presented media is identified by the media identifier block the media identifier stores an indication of the identified media block . The timestamper stores a timestamp in association with the identified media block . The media identifier then determines if a media event is detected block .

If the storage threshold has not been exceeded block the network communicator waits until the storage threshold has been exceeded. When the storage threshold has been exceeded block the network communicator transmits the stored records e.g. data that can be used to identify the media and or the name s of the identified media etc. to the central facility . In the illustrated example the network communicator transmits the stored records via the Internet. However in some examples the network communicator transmits the stored records via a cellular telecommunication connection via the plain old telephone system POTS or via a local connection such as for example a serial connection a universal serial bus USB connection a Bluetooth connection etc. In some examples the meter may be physically moved to a location of the central facility by for example physically mailing the meter physically mailing a removable memory of the meter e.g. the metering data store etc. to facilitate data extraction from the same.

The query processors receive and store the DNS data in the DNS data store block . In the illustrated example the DNS data is received by the query processors as the DNS queries of the media presentation devices are made e.g. streamed . However in some examples the DNS data may be stored e.g. cached buffered etc. at a location other than the central facility such as for example at a third party DNS provider at the media presentation devices etc. and may be periodically and or aperiodically transferred to the central facility .

The tag data receiver receives and stores the tagging data in the tagging data store block . The tagging data identifies the presented media based on tag s embedded in and or associated with presented media. The media presentation devices and or applications associated with the media presentation devices report the tagging data to the tag data receiver . In the illustrated example the tagging data is received by the tag data receiver as the media presentation devices transmit the tagging data e.g. streamed . However in some examples the tagging data may be stored e.g. cached buffered etc. by the media presentation devices and may be transmitted periodically and or aperiodically to the tag data receiver .

The timestamper inspects the received data e.g. the metering data the DNS data the tagging data etc. and applies timestamps to the received data block . Among other things timestamping e.g. recording a time and or date that an event occurred facilitates accurate identification of media at the central facility by for instance reducing a search space for matching a reference database of codes and or signatures. When the received data is streamed timestamping at the central facility alleviates the meter and or the media presentation devices from having to timestamp the metering data and or tagging data.

To identify the media presentation device via the DNS data the correlator identifies DNS requests made by the media presentation device associated with the panelist between timestamps of the start and stop media presentation events. In some examples the correlator identifies DNS requests that were made by the media presentation device outside of the presentation window e.g. one minute two minutes fifteen minutes one hour etc. as for example the media presentation device may have requested a DNS record of the media provider prior to the presentation of the media. In some examples the correlator may identify a DNS record within an approximate timeframe of the media presentation start event e.g. within one minute of the media presentation start event within two minutes of the media presentation start event within fifteen minutes of the media presentation start event within one hour of the media presentation start event etc. . The correlator identifies the media source based on the DNS data block . The correlator identifies the media source based on the DNS data by performing a look of the domain name that was requested by the media presentation device .

The audience measurement processor determines if the presented media was identified by the metering data block . If the media was identified by the metering data block the audience measurement processor credits the panelist with exposure to the identified media from the identified source e.g. the media provider via the identified media presentation device block . If the media was not identified by the metering data block the audience measurement processor determines if the presented media was identified by the tagging data block . If the media was identified by the tagging data the audience measurement processor credits the panelist with exposure to the identified media from the identified source e.g. the media provider via the identified media presentation device block . If the media was not identified by the tagging data e.g. identified by neither the tagging data nor the metering data the audience measurement processor credits the panelist with exposure to media from the identified source e.g. the media provider via the identified media presentation device block . In some examples the panelist is credited with a duration of exposure based on the media presentation start and stop events.

The correlator then identifies whether additional media presentation events are to be identified block . If additional media presentation events are to be identified control proceeds to block where the correlator identifies the additional media presentation events block . If no additional media presentation events are to be identified the example instructions of terminate.

The system of the instant example includes a processor . For example the processor can be implemented by one or more microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor includes a local memory e.g. a cache and is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory and or is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

One or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit . The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit thus typically includes a graphics driver card.

The interface circuit also includes a communication device e.g. the network communicator such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives. The mass storage device may implement the example metering data store the example panelist information data store the example metering data store the example DNS data store and or the example tagging data store .

The coded instructions of and or may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will appreciate that example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable correlation of audience measurement data from multiple sources for accurate monitoring of media presentations.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

