---

title: Application communication
abstract: An external application is loaded by an electronic device. The external application loads one or more internal applications. The internal application loads a player application, such as a video player. At least one communication channel is configured between the external application and the player application. Subsequently, the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. In response, the external application may perform one or more actions and/or may provide reply signals to the player application. Additionally, the player application may provide instructions to the external application and/or the external application may provide instructions to the player application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09236088&OS=09236088&RS=09236088
owner: RAPT MEDIA, INC.
number: 09236088
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130703
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 813 531 which was filed on Apr. 18 2013 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING AND ANALYZING INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCES which is incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein.

This disclosure relates generally to application communication and more specifically to application programming interfaces for communicating between multiple applications through independent intermediary applications.

Modern applications frequently involve pulling in information and functionality from multiple other sources including other applications. Bringing together multiple independent applications in this manner often creates a disjointed clumsy experience that feels more like interacting with many separate interfaces rather than one seamless integrated interface. As software applications become more interrelated this transition between application contexts becomes more important as does making it as smooth and transparent as possible.

For example a web page presented by a web browser may call one or more components. As such the web page may be an external application and the components may be internal applications. Such components may include iframes widgets and so on. Such internal applications may call one or more players such as one or more video players. Thus multiple independent applications may be simultaneously operating that may create a disjointed clumsy experience that feels more like interacting with many separate interfaces rather than one seamless integrated interface.

The present disclosure discloses systems methods and computer program products for communication between applications. An external application may be loaded. The external application may load one or more internal applications. The internal application may load a player application such as a video player. At least one communication channel may be configured between the external application and the player application. Subsequently the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. In response the external application may perform one or more actions and or may provide reply signals to the player application. Additionally the player application may provide instructions to the external application and or the external application may provide instructions to the player application.

For example the external application may be a web page rendered by a web browser. In such an example the web page may call one or more internal applications which may be one or more components of the web page. Such a component may call the player application and a communication connection may then be configured between the web page and the player application.

In various implementations the internal application may perform the configuration of the communication connection between the external application and the player application. In some cases configuration of the communication connection may be accomplished by including code for such configuration such as one or more scripting language instructions in the web page which is then executed as part of loading the web page to configure the communication connection. Such code may be at least a portion of an application programming interface. In one or more cases configuring the communication connection between the external application and the player application may include negotiating a trusted connection between the external application and the player application.

As discussed above the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. Such events may include a transition a user interaction an interface selection a video transition a portion complete a time reached and or any other such event that may occur during operation of the player application.

Further as discussed above the external application may perform one or more actions in response to a signal from the player application indicating the occurrence of an event. Such actions may include recording the occurrence of the at least one event changing an aspect of a web page presented by the external application transmitting at least one instruction to the at least one player adding at least one item to at least one shopping cart utilizing at least one hardware component of at least one device incorporating the at least one processing unit changing the content of the at least one player enabling at least one form requiring at least one form presenting a different web page utilizing the external application and or any other such action performable by the external application.

Additionally as discussed above the external application may provide instructions to the player application. Such instructions may include an instruction to switch content being played an instruction to pause play an instruction to stop play an instruction to fast forward play an instruction to rewind play an instruction to alter volume or an instruction concerning an event for which the at least one player to monitor and report regarding and or any other instruction performable by the player application.

Moreover as discussed above in some implementations the player application may provide instructions to the external application. Such instructions may include an instruction to perform at least one of change an aspect of a web page presented by the external application add at least one item to at least one shopping cart utilize at least one hardware component of at least one device incorporating the at least one processing unit enable at least one form require at least one form present a different web page utilizing the external application and or any other instruction performable by the external application.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are for purposes of example and explanation and do not necessarily limit the present disclosure. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate subject matter of the disclosure. Together the descriptions and the drawings serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

The description that follows includes sample systems methods and computer program products that embody various elements of the present disclosure. However it should be understood that the described disclosure may be practiced in a variety of forms in addition to those described herein.

The present disclosure describes a communication structure that may allow communication from one application to another through any number of intermediate applications. This communication structure may allow the applications to send and receive messages between one another and act upon these signals to provide a more integrated seamless experience.

The present disclosure discloses systems methods and computer program products for communication between applications. An external application may be loaded. The external application may load one or more internal applications. The internal application may load a player application such as a video player. At least one communication channel may be configured between the external application and the player application.

Subsequently the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. In response the external application may perform one or more actions and or may provide reply signals to the player application. Additionally the player application may provide instructions to the external application and or the external application may provide instructions to the player application.

For example the external application may be a web page rendered by a web browser. In such an example the web page may call one or more internal applications which may be one or more components of the web page. Such a component may call the player application and a communication connection may then be configured between the web page and the player application.

In various implementations the internal application may perform the configuration of the communication connection between the external application and the player application. In some cases configuration of the communication connection may be accomplished by including code for such configuration such as one or more scripting language instructions in the web page which is then executed as part of loading the web page to configure the communication connection. Such code may be at least a portion of an application programming interface. In one or more cases configuring the communication connection between the external application and the player application may include negotiating a trusted connection between the external application and the player application.

As discussed above the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. Such events may include a transition a user interaction an interface selection a video transition a portion complete a time reached and or any other such event that may occur during operation of the player application.

Further as discussed above the external application may perform one or more actions in response to a signal from the player application indicating the occurrence of an event. Such actions may include recording the occurrence of the at least one event changing an aspect of a web page presented by the external application transmitting at least one instruction to the at least one player adding at least one item to at least one shopping cart utilizing at least one hardware component of at least one device incorporating the at least one processing unit changing the content of the at least one player enabling at least one form requiring at least one form presenting a different web page utilizing the external application and or any other such action performable by the external application.

Additionally as discussed above the external application may provide instructions to the player application. Such instructions may include an instruction to switch content being played an instruction to pause play an instruction to stop play an instruction to fast forward play an instruction to rewind play an instruction to alter volume or an instruction concerning an event for which the at least one player to monitor and report regarding and or any other instruction performable by the player application.

Moreover as discussed above in some implementations the player application may provide instructions to the external application. Such instructions may include an instruction to perform at least one of change an aspect of a web page presented by the external application add at least one item to at least one shopping cart utilize at least one hardware component of at least one device incorporating the at least one processing unit enable at least one form require at least one form present a different web page utilizing the external application and or any other instruction performable by the external application.

The electronic device may include one or more processing units one or more non transitory storage media which may take the form of but is not limited to a magnetic storage medium optical storage medium magneto optical storage medium read only memory random access memory erasable programmable memory flash memory and so on one or more display components such as one or more cathode ray tube displays one or more liquid crystal displays one or more plasma displays one or more light emitting diode displays one or more organic light emitting diode displays and or other such displays and or one or more communication components.

The processing unit may be operable to execute one or more instructions stored in the storage medium to perform one or more electronic device functions. Such functions may include executing a browser which may be a web browser such as the browser illustrated as displayed on the display component in . As illustrated the browser loads a web page . The web page may load one or more components which may include one or more iframes widgets and so on such as component . The component may load a player application which may be a video player application. The web page may be an external application as it calls the component which may be an internal application as the component is called by the web page . Returning to though browser execution is listed as an example of an electronic device function it is understood that this is for the purposes of example and in various implementations the electronic device may perform a variety of different functions.

The electronic device may load an external application such as a web page and or other application . The external application may load one or more internal applications such as components of a web page or other internal applications . The internal application may load a player application such as a video player or other player application . At least one communication channel may be configured between the external application and the player application.

Subsequently the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. In response in some implementations the external application may perform one or more actions and or may provide reply signals to the player application.

Additionally the external application may provide instructions to the player application in some implementations. Moreover in various implementations the player application may provide instructions to the external application.

In some implementations the external application internal application s and or the player application may be loaded from the storage medium . However in various implementations the system may include one or more remote computing devices A X A X with which the electronic device is capable of communicating via the communication component and or one or more different communication media. In such cases one or more of the external application internal application s and or the player application may be loaded from one or more of the computing devices A X A X.

In various implementations the internal application may perform the configuration of the communication connection between the external application and the player application. For example when the internal application loads the player application the internal application may configure the communication connection between the external application and the player application. Subsequently the external application and the player application may communicate without involving the internal application.

In various implementations the external application may be a web page and or a component of a web page. In such cases configuration of the communication connection may be accomplished by including code for such configuration including one or more scripting language instructions such as JavaScript in the web page which is then executed as part of loading the web page to configure the communication connection. Such code may be at least a portion of an application programming interface that is provided to enable web pages and or components of web pages to communicate directly with player applications called by internal applications.

In such cases the designer or builder of a web page and or web page component may determine whether or not a player application is allowed to communicate directly with the web page and or web page component by including or omitting the code in the web page and or web page component. If the code is not included the web page and or web page component may not be able to communicate directly with the player application regardless of any messages transmitted by the player application.

In one or more cases configuring the communication connection between the external application and the player application may include negotiating a trusted connection between the external application and the player application. Such trusted connection negotiation may include one or more key exchanges encryption certificate exchanges authentication schemes and or other such trusted connection negotiation protocols.

As discussed above the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. Such events may include any events that may occur during operation of the player application. For example the player application may provide a signal whenever the player application encounters a transition such as a transition from a first video to a second video . By way of another example the player application may provide a signal whenever a user interaction is received. Such a user interaction may be an interface selection such as selection of a presented button and or any other such interaction by a user with the player application which may indicate a change of status of the media content being played such as stopped paused fast forwarded rewound and so on . By way of still another example the player application may provide a signal when the player reaches a portion completed of a media content being played a time reached in the media content being played and or any other such status of the media being played such as play of the media content has been stopped paused fast forwarded rewound and so on .

Further as discussed above the external application may perform one or more actions in response to a signal from the player application indicating the occurrence of an event. Such actions may include any kind of actions that the external application is configured to perform upon receipt of the signal. For example the external application may respond by recording the occurrence of the event such as in one or more maintained analytics databases. By way of a second example the external application may respond by changing an aspect of the external application such as changing an aspect of a web page presented by the external application or by redirecting to present a different web page . By way of a third example the external application may respond by transmitting at least one instruction to the player application. By way of a fourth example the external application may respond by adding at least one item to at least one shopping cart. By way of a fifth example the external application may respond by utilizing at least one hardware component of the electronic device . By way of a sixth example the external application may respond by changing the content of the at least one player. By way of a seventh example the external application may respond by enabling at least one form. By way of an eighth example the external application may respond by requiring at least one form.

Additionally as discussed above the external application may provide instructions to the player application. Such instructions may include any instruction that is performable by the player application. For example the external application may instruct the player application to switch content being played. By way of a second example the external application may instruct the player application to pause play. By way of a third example the external application may instruct the player application to stop play. By way of a fourth example the external application may instruct the player application to fast forward play. By way of a fifth example the external application may instruct the player application to rewind play. By way of a fifth example the external application may instruct the player application to alter volume. By way of a sixth example the external application may instruct the player application concerning an event for which the at least one player is to monitor and report regarding.

Moreover as discussed above in some implementations the player application may provide instructions to the external application. Such instructions may include any other instruction that the external application is capable of performing. For example the player application may instruct the external application to perform at least one of change an aspect of a web page presented by the external application. By way of a second example the player application may instruct the external application to add at least one item to at least one shopping cart. By way of a third example the player application may instruct the external application to utilize at least one hardware component of the electronic device . By way of a fourth example the player application may instruct the external application to enable at least one form. By way of a fifth example the player application may instruct the external application to require at least one form. By way of a sixth example the player application may instruct the external application to present a different web page utilizing the external application.

Detailed example implementations will now be discussed. In a first example implementation a smart phone may load a web page from a web server utilizing a browser application. The web page may load a first iframe that includes content from a video content server as a component of the web page. The content from the video content server loaded in the iframe may load an embedded iframe that includes a video player which plays video content from the video content server. As part of such loading the first iframe may configure a communication channel between the web page and the video player. In this first example implementation the web page may be configured to track how much of embedded videos are actually viewed by users instead of merely loaded and only partially watched. Further in this example the video player may be configured to provide signals to the web page indicating when various points in the played video are reached such as 25 50 75 and 98 . The web page may receive such signals and record the signals in an analytics database which may be reported back to the web server . In this way the information stored in the analytics database may be utilized to determine not only how often videos were viewed via the web page but also how much of the videos users viewed.

In a second example implementation a laptop computer may load a web page from a web server utilizing a browser application. The web page may load a first iframe that includes content from a video content server as a component of the web page. The content from the video content server loaded in the iframe may load an embedded iframe that includes a video player which plays an interactive series of video content segments from the video content server. As part of such loading the first iframe may configure a communication channel between the web page and the video player. In this second example implementation the web page may be configured to change advertisements displayed around the first iframe whenever the video content segment played by the video player switches. Further in this example the video player may be configured to provide signals to the web page indicating when the video player transitions from one video content segment to another. The web page may receive such signals and change the advertisements in response. In this way the web page may be able to change the advertisements presented whenever played video content segments change.

In a third example implementation a desktop computer may load a web page from a web server utilizing a browser application. The web page may load a first iframe that includes content from a video content server as a component of the web page. The content from the video content server loaded in the iframe may load an embedded iframe that includes a video player which plays an interactive series of video content segments from the video content server. As part of such loading the first iframe may configure a communication channel between the web page and the video player. In this third example implementation the web page may include other web page components that play audio. Further in this example the video player may be configured to instruct the web page to mute the audio played by the other web page components whenever the video player is playing a video. As such the video player may be configured to signal the web page whenever a played video is starts stops is muted it unmuted and or otherwise changes status and instruct the web page accordingly. The web page may receive such signals and mute or unmute the audio played by the other web page components accordingly. In this way the video player may prevent the audio from the other web page components from interfering with the audio presented by the video player.

In a fourth example implementation a tablet computer may load a web page from a web server utilizing a browser application. The web page may load a first iframe that includes content from a video content server as a component of the web page. The content from the video content server loaded in the iframe may load an embedded iframe that includes a video player which plays an interactive series of video content segments from the video content server. As part of such loading the first iframe may configure a communication channel between the web page and the video player. In this fourth example implementation the web page may include another embedded video. Further in this example the video player may be configured to provide signals to the web page indicating when a user however a mouse cursor over the video player and to stop start and or otherwise alter the status of the video player in response to instructions from the web page. Based at least on received signals regarding when the mouse cursor is hovered over the video player the web page may instruct the video player to start resume and or otherwise play video whenever the mouse cursor is moved to hover over the video player whereupon the web page may disable the other embedded video from playing and stop pause other otherwise halt play of the video when the mouse cursor is moved to no longer hover over the video player whereupon the web page may signal enable the other embedded video to resume play . In this way the web page may prevent the video player and the other embedded video from interfering with each other.

Next the flow proceeds to block where the external application loads an internal application such as a component of the web page . The flow then proceeds to block where the internal application loads a player application such as a video player .

Next the flow proceeds to block where a communication channel is configured between the external application and the player application. The communication channel may be configured by the internal application and may be configured utilizing at least a portion of an application programming interface. Configuration of the communication channel may include configuring a trusted connection between the external application and the internal application.

The flow then proceeds to block where the electronic device determines whether or not the external application transmits a communication such as an instruction a notification a response to a communication received from the player application and or other such communication to the player application. If not the flow proceeds to block . Otherwise the flow proceeds to block where the external application transmits the communication to the player application before the flow proceeds to block .

At block the electronic device determines whether or not the player application transmits a communication such as an instruction a notification an indication of an event that occurred during performance of the player application a response to a communication received from the external application and or other such communication to the external application. If not the flow proceeds to block . Otherwise the flow proceeds to block where the player application transmits the communication to the external application.

At block the electronic device determines whether the player application and or the external application have ended i.e. terminated execution . If so the flow returns to block where the electronic device continues to operate. Otherwise the flow returns to block where the electronic device determines whether or not the external application transmits a communication to the player application.

Although the method is illustrated and described as including particular operations performed in a particular order it is understood that this is for the purposes of example. In various implementations various arrangements of the same similar or different operations may be performed without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

For example the method illustrates and describes the determination of communications from the external application to the player application and from the player application to the external application as performed sequentially. However it is understood that this is for the purposes of clarity and in various implementations these operations may be performed simultaneously and or substantially simultaneously.

Herein unless otherwise defined servers is intended to include any set of distinct servers including a single server hosting all applications a cloud based server architecture hosting applications the display device itself or any combination of these.

Herein unless otherwise defined external application is intended to include any application which as part of its execution is capable of loading other applications.

Herein unless otherwise defined the player is intended to include a media player or any other kind of application that operates from events hardware software or other types and or user interactions.

Herein unless otherwise defined internal applications is intended to include a single application or an external application containing one or more internal applications.

Once the player has loaded the external application may be provided with an indicator which will signal whenever an event occurs in the player . At this point the player may begin its execution . During this execution the player may encounter various events at which point it may create a distinct signal that communicates the details of the event . This signal may then be sent to the indicator that was provided to the external application which may respond to the signal in any way the external application deems appropriate . This process may repeat with every new event until either the player or the external application terminates .

In general an event may be any change in the state of the player such as when a media file begins or ends playback when a user performs some kind of interaction when the media has moved forward in playback etc.

In general a signal may be any form of information about an event in the player such as when a media file begins or ends playback when a user performed some kind of interaction when the media has moved forward in playback etc.

In one example independent of the player s behavior a channel may be provided to the external application through which it can send signals directly to the player . Once this channel is open any time an event occurs in the external application the external application may generate a signal and then send this signal to the player through the channel . Whenever one of these signals is sent the player may parse out the signal and then perform some action based on the information in the signal such as loading new media or modifying playback . This process may repeat whenever a new signal is sent until either the player or the external application terminates .

In general an event may be any change in the state of the external application such as when a user performs some kind of interaction a file is loaded the application ends etc. In general a signal may be any form of information about a state change in the player such as to start or stop playback go to a specific point in a media file load a new media file etc.

In various implementations a method may include loading an external application loading an internal application by the external application and loading a player by the internal applications. Further the method may include providing a signal from the player to the external application that indicates the occurrence of an event in the player. Additionally the method may include providing a reply signal from the external application to the player responsive to the signal sent from the player to the external application.

In some implementations an electronic device may include a processor a non transitory computer readable storage medium connected to the processor an external application stored on the storage medium and executable by the processor a plurality of internal applications stored on the storage medium and executable by the processor the plurality of internal applications being callable by the external application and a player stored on the storage medium and executable by the processor the player being callable by the plurality of internal applications.

As discussed above and illustrated in the accompanying Figures the present disclosure discloses systems methods and computer program products for communication between applications. An external application may be loaded. The external application may load one or more internal applications. The internal application may load a player application such as a video player. At least one communication channel may be configured between the external application and the player application. Subsequently the player application may provide signals to the external application via the communication connection when one or more events occur. In response the external application may perform one or more actions and or may provide reply signals to the player application. Additionally the player application may provide instructions to the external application and or the external application may provide instructions to the player application.

In the present disclosure the methods disclosed may be implemented as sets of instructions or software readable by a device. Further it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed are examples of sample approaches. In other embodiments the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the method can be rearranged while remaining within the disclosed subject matter. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not necessarily meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The described disclosure may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a non transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the present disclosure. A non transitory machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The non transitory machine readable medium may take the form of but is not limited to a magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette video cassette and so on optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory and so on.

It is believed that the present disclosure and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components without departing from the disclosed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form described is merely explanatory and it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to various embodiments it will be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and that the scope of the disclosure is not limited to them. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. More generally embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure have been described in the context or particular embodiments. Functionality may be separated or combined in blocks differently in various embodiments of the disclosure or described with different terminology. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the disclosure as defined in the claims that follow.

