---

title: Laser based analysis using a passively Q-switched laser employing analysis electronics and a means for detecting atomic optical emission of the laser media
abstract: A device for Laser based Analysis using a Passively Q-Switched Laser comprising an optical pumping source optically connected to a laser media. The laser media and a Q-switch are positioned between and optically connected to a high reflectivity mirror (HR) and an output coupler (OC) along an optical axis. The output coupler (OC) is optically connected to the output lens along the optical axis. A means for detecting atomic optical emission comprises a filter and a light detector. The optical filter is optically connected to the laser media and the optical detector. A control system is connected to the optical detector and the analysis electronics. The analysis electronics are optically connected to the output lens. The detection of the large scale laser output production triggers the control system to initiate the precise timing and data collection from the detector and analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09297696&OS=09297696&RS=09297696
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 09297696
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130125
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship between the inventors and the U.S. Department of Energy operators of the National Energy Technology Laboratory NETL .

The present invention relates to the use of a passively Q switched laser in analysis using precision timing as described herein. Preferably the analysis is Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy LIBS .

Current light based analysis requires the use of expensive equipment that offers a complicated system that is difficult to maintain. Although laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS offers a low cost analysis system it is plagued by its requirements for precise control of laser pulses in conjunction with precise timing of the optical spectrometer. Generally LIBS systems use actively Q switched lasers due to their precision timing. In an actively Q switched laser an input signal is used to control the laser output and to time the measurement. Passively Q switched lasers do not have a highly precise timing signal making them unsuitable for LIBS to those in the art. Therefore there is a need in the art for a low cost reliable laser based analysis using a passively q switched laser.

A device for laser based analysis using a passively Q Switched laser comprising an optical pumping source a high reflectivity mirror HR a laser media a Q switch an output coupler OC an output lens a means for detecting atomic optical emission of the laser media a control system and analysis electronics. The high reflectivity mirror HR the laser media the Q switch the output coupler OC and the output lens are positioned along an optical axis. The optical pumping source is optically connected to the laser media preferably by being focused along the optical axis or from the side focused onto the optical axis. The optical pumping source creates a pumping excitation energy for the laser media. The laser media is made of a material that emits an atomic optical emission when exposed to the pumping excitation energy. The high reflectivity mirror HR is reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media. The laser media and the Q switch are positioned between and optically connected to the high reflectivity mirror HR and the output coupler OC along the optical axis. In one embodiment the laser media and the Q switch are fused to be a single element and the high reflectivity mirror HR and the output coupler OC are preferably coatings on either end of the composite media Q switch. The output coupler OC is optically connected to the output lens along the optical axis. The means for detecting atomic optical emission of the laser media comprises a filter and a light detector. The optical filter optically connects the optical detector to the atomic optical emission of the laser media while also filtering at least a portion of said pumping excitation energy from reaching the optical detector. Therefore only atomic optical lasing emission of the laser media reaching the optical detector pass through the optical filter.

The optical filter is optically connected to the laser media and the optical detector. The control system is connected to the optical detector and the analysis electronics. The analysis electronics are optically connected to the output of the output lens.

As used herein the term optically connected shall refer to any means of optically transferring between either directly or through any number of intermediate components. For example the optical pumping source optically connected to the laser media refers to a direct connection as shown in and or an indirect connection as shown in or whereby the pumping excitation energy from the optical pumping source must first pass through a number of optical components before it reaches the laser media .

In a preferred embodiment the optical pumping excitation energy emitted from the optical pumping source passes through the high reflectivity mirror HR and excites the laser media . In this embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR reflects light at the lasing wavelength and transmits light at the pumping wavelength. In another embodiment the optical pumping excitation energy emitted from the optical pumping source passes through the Q switch before it excites the laser media for example the embodiment shown in . The stored excited states of the laser media spontaneously decay producing an atomic optical emission in random directions. The emission received at the output coupler OC will be partially reflected back to the laser media . Preferably the output coupler OC will reflect less than 50 of the emission energy towards the laser media along the optical axis. The output energy emitted from the laser media towards the Q switch is partially absorbed by the Q switch to prevent lasing from occurring. The emission energy that is received at the high reflectivity mirror HR is reflected back towards the laser media along the optical axis .

The emission energy will reflect back and forth between the high reflectivity mirror HR and the output coupler OC along the optical axis. The emission energy will traverse the laser media and interact with excited atoms preferably Nd within the laser media inducing stimulated emission where the original photons from the emission energy cause the decay of an excited state. The stimulated event produces light of the same wavelength about 1064 nm for a Nd YAG laser media phase and in the same direction as the stimulating photon. At the same time the Q switch allows a certain percentage of the incident photons to pass through unimpeded. The balance of the certain percentage of photons is absorbed within the Q switch inducing excited states. When the material of the Q switch is in an excited state it is virtually transparent to the atomic optical emission of the laser media . Therefore as more of the emission energy is absorbed it effectively makes the Q switch more and more transparent for a short time. This allows more emission energy to pass through and return producing more stimulated emissions within the laser media .

This process of increasing the transparency of the Q switch allows a large number of excited states to build up within the laser media until the Q switch reaches a threshold transparency. The Q switch begins to increase transparency exponentially and the number of photons induced from the emission energy within the laser cavity high reflectivity mirror HR laser media Q switch and output coupler OC also grows exponentially. At this point the Q switch is virtually clear of losses and large scale lasing occurs depleting the excited states in the laser media within a few round trips. The output energy produced is a large number of photons in a very short pulse width. The laser output energy is directed through the output lens . The output lens focuses the laser output energy. In one embodiment the output lens focuses the laser output energy down to a sufficiently small spot size generating a power density or photon flux density of about 1 10W cmor greater so as to create a spark.

The optical pumping source creates an optical pumping excitation energy having low peak power preferably less than 1 000 peak Watts more preferably about 100 1 000 Watts depending on the material of the laser media . The optical pumping excitation energy needs to be sufficient enough to excite the laser media at a greater rate than lost from subsequent stimulated emission and or natural decay. The optical pumping excitation energy may be a single pulse a continuous stream or a series of pulses. In the preferred embodiment the optical pumping source is a laser diode providing optical pumping excitation energy in the form of a single square wave pulse having a low power preferably less than 1 000 peak Watts and a time duration of tens to several hundred microseconds. In yet another embodiment the optical pumping source is one or more vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VCSEL .

The optical pumping source is optically connected to the laser media . In one embodiment for example as shown in and the optical pumping source is positioned along the optical axis . In an alternate embodiment the optical pumping source is positioned outside of preferably normal to the optical axis preferably adjacent to the laser media for example as shown in and . In yet another embodiment the optical pumping source is optically connected to the laser media via one or more optical fibers. Preferably the pumping source is positioned whereby the pumping excitation energy produced by the pumping source is perpendicular to the optical axis .

The high reflectivity mirror HR is reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media . In one embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR is transparent to the pumping excitation energy. The high reflectivity mirror HR allows pumping excitation energy emitted from the optical pumping source in the coaxial pumping configuration to pass through while reflecting the intracavity atomic optical emission of the laser media . Preferably the high reflectivity mirror HR comprises undoped YAG fused silica sapphire or a combination thereof preferably further comprising one or more thin film optical coatings deposited onto one face.

Preferably the high reflectivity mirror HR is a transparent optical media such as fused silica or sapphire having a coating that is reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media and that is transparent to the pumping excitation energy. More preferably the high reflectivity mirror HR is fused silica having a coating that is reflective to the atomic optical emission of the laser media and that is transparent to the pumping excitation energy. In one embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR comprises a plurality of coatings preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR is deposited as an optical coating onto the face of either the laser media or the Q switch to define the optical cavity. In another embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR material has a large thickness where one side is bonded directly to the laser media or Q switch and the other side has the optical coating deposited directly on to it to define the optical cavity. By varying the thickness of the high reflectivity mirror HR material one can tune the length of the optical cavity and to help remove heat that the pumping excitation energy deposits into the face of the laser media or Q switch . When the high reflectivity mirror HR material has a significant thickness between the laser media or Q switch and the high reflectivity HR optical coating optical distortions caused by thermal lensing within the laser are reduced. The length of the cavity dictates the output pulsewidth and can be tuned to provide a pulsewidth that is most appropriate for a particular application.

The laser media is made of a material that emits an atomic optical emission when exposed to the pumping excitation energy. The laser media is preferably made of one of the materials described in Koechner W. Bass M. Solid State Lasers A Graduate Text Springer New York 2003 hereby fully incorporated by reference. The laser media is generally a host material that is doped. The host materials are preferably glasses or crystals of oxides garnets vanadates fluorides or a combination thereof. The Glasses are preferably doped with Nd Er or Yb. Oxides such as sapphire are preferably doped with Ti. The Garnets are preferably Yttrium Aluminum Garnet Y3Al5O12 YAG Gadolinium Gallium Garnet GdGaO GGG and Gadolinium Scandium Aluminum Garnet GdScAlO GSGG and are preferably doped with rare earths such as Nd Tm Er Ho Yb. The Vanadates or Yttrium Orthovanadate YVO4 are preferably doped with Nd. The Fluorides or Yttrium Fluoride YLiF4 are preferably doped with Nd. The laser media is preferably Nd YAG neodymium doped yttrium aluminium garnet Nd Glass neodymium doped glass Nd YLF neodymium doped yttrium lithium fluoride Nd YVO4 Yttrium Vanadate Er Glass Erbium doped glass Yb YAG ytterbium doped yttrium aluminium garnet Alexandrite Ti Sapphire Titanium sapphire or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment the laser media is Nd YAG having about 0.5 atomic weight of Nd which will emit an atomic optical emission at about 1064 nm.

The dopant level of the laser media is preferably low to improve performance. Lowering the dopant concentration affects the overall output by improving the beam overlap efficiency side pumped improving the penetration depth end pumped improving the absorption depth of the optical pumping excitation energy reducing thermal lensing losses and reducing losses due to ASE Amplified Spontaneous Emission . This leads to a more uniform pumped gain profile as well as more uniformly distributed thermal stresses which lessen the effects of thermal lensing. The reduction of dopant concentration lowers the gain of the material slightly but offers larger energy storage capacity in return.

Preferably one or more coatings are used to reduce optical thermal or a combination thereof stresses in the laser media . In a preferred embodiment the laser media comprises CR YAG Nd YAG or a combination thereof positioned between a first undoped YAG layer coating and a second undoped YAG layer coating along the optical axis.

The Q Switch is made of a material with a variable attenuation which is reduced after optical stimulation from the lasing energy. The Q switch preferably comprises Li F or Cr YAG. The Q switch preferably comprises Cr YAG chromium doped yttrium aluminum garnet when the lasing species is Nd having enough Cr such that the small signal transmission of the atomic optical emission is in the range of 10 60 . The Q switch is positioned next to the laser media and between the high reflectivity mirror HR and the output coupler OC depicts one embodiment where the Q switch is positioned between the output coupler OC and the laser media . In an alternate embodiment as shown in the Q switch is positioned between the high reflectivity mirror HR and the laser media

The output coupler OC is optically connected to the output lens along the optical axis . The output coupler OC partially reflects the atomic optical emission of the laser media preferably less than 50 of the atomic optical emission of the laser media is reflected. In a preferred embodiment the output coupler OC reflects about 20 50 of the atomic optical emission of the laser media . Preferably the output coupler OC is fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or a combination thereof preferably further comprising a plurality of optical coatings deposited onto one face preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof. In the alternative the output coupler OC is another optical glass that is transparent to the atomic optical emission of the laser media has a high optical damage threshold and can receive an appropriate optically reflective coating.

In one embodiment the output coupler OC is deposited as an optical coating onto the face of either the laser media or the Q switch to define the optical cavity. In another embodiment the output coupler OC material has a large thickness where one side is bonded directly to the laser media or Q switch and the other side has the optical coating deposited directly on to its opposing face to define the optical cavity. By varying the thickness of the partially reflecting mirror material one can tune the length of the optical cavity and or to help remove heat that the pumping excitation energy deposits into the laser media or Q switch . When the output coupler OC mirror material has a significant thickness between the laser media or Q switch and the output coupler OC optical coating it reduces optical distortions caused by thermal lensing within the laser. The output coupler OC material preferably does not interact with either the pump energy or the atomic optical emission of the laser media and is preferably used as a heat transfer media to reduce heat concentrations within the laser media or Q switch . The length of the cavity dictates the output pulse width and can be tuned to provide a pulse width that is most appropriate for a particular application.

The output lens focuses the lasing energy. In the preferred embodiment the output lens is a piano convex lens preferably having a focal length of about 1 5 centimeters. Preferably the output lens is fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or some other material that is transparent to the lasing energy has an appropriate index of refraction and has a high optical damage threshold. In another embodiment the output lens is a Bi convex lens. Preferably the output lens has an anti reflection coating.

The means for detecting atomic optical emission of the laser media comprises a filter and a light detector. A filter is positioned between the light detector and the laser media to filter out light that is not atomic optical emission of the laser media . The filter is designed to eliminate the transmission of the pump energy or any other excited state emission that is different from the lasing output wavelength. The filter and light detector are designed to detect leakage of the atomic optical emission of the laser media that is emitted in all directions from the high energy lasing process. Preferably one or more electronic devices are used to determine precise timing of the operation of the laser media as described in the various embodiments listed below. Various embodiments are depicted in and are described below.

The filter is any material that at least attenuates light that is not atomic optical emission of the laser media . In one preferred embodiment the filter is an interference filter. In one embodiment the filter blocks or reflects the majority of light including atomic optical emission of the laser media to prevent damage atomic optical emission detections or a combination of at the detector . Preferably the filter is made of an absorbing glass which absorbs the pumping excitation energy and transmits at least some of the atomic optical emission of the laser media .

In a preferred embodiment the filter is a bandpass filter comprised of laminated layers of absorbing glass with coatings of vacuum deposited metallic blocker such as silver which reflects most light and a vacuum deposited thin film partial reflector that transmits a narrow bandwidth of light centered at the atomic optical emission of the laser media with a bandwidth of approximately 2 nm. The partially reflecting thin film is preferably constituted primarily of alternating layers of low index of refraction materials whose presence or absence can be used to tune the reflectivity and the center wavelength to the desired area of operation. The thin films are preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof.

The photo detector is a device that is capable of detecting atomic optical emission of the laser media . Preferably the photo detector is a photomultiplier a photoresistor or a photodiode with the necessary electronics to connect to the control system . As the filter attenuates light that is not atomic optical emission of the laser media light reaching the photo detector will substantially be atomic optical emission of the laser media . Preferably the system is designed to account for any light that is not atomic optical lasing emission of the laser media light that reaches the system for example by setting a threshold value for intensity of light reaching the photo detector before atomic optical emission of the laser media is considered as detected.

In one embodiment a resistor with a known resistance and a photo resistor are connected in series across a voltage source. In another embodiment one or more voltage comparators Analog to digital converters ADC transistors amplifiers or a combination thereof are used to connect the photo detector to the control system . For example in one embodiment the output of the photodiode is electrically connected to the input of a current to voltage amplifier circuit. In another embodiment a photodiode is electrically connected to a voltage source in revere bias with a current detector whereby a change in current is related to a change in light intensity detected.

The control system is any device capable of reading the output from the photo detector and controlling the analysis electronics . The control system preferably comprises a processor computer application specific integrated controller ASIC microcontroller CPU or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the control system is an AMEGA128 as sold by ATMEL.

The analysis electronics are any electronics used to analyze a specimen using the apparatus described herein. In a preferred embodiment the analysis electronics are electronics used to perform laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS . Laser induced breakdown spectroscopy LIBS uses a highly energetic laser pulse as the excitation source and an optical spectrometer as an analyzer. The laser is focused to form a plasma which atomizes and excites samples. Preferably LIBS is used to analyze any matter regardless of its physical state be it solid liquid or gas. Because all elements emit light of characteristic frequencies when excited to sufficiently high temperatures LIBS can in principle detect all elements limited only by the power of the laser as well as the sensitivity and wavelength range of the spectrometer and its detector.

Preferably in embodiments using LIBS the analysis electronics operates by focusing the laser onto a small area at the surface of the specimen when the atomic optical emission of the laser media is discharged it ablates a very small amount of material in the range of nanograms to picograms which generates a plasma plume with temperatures preferably in excess of 10 000 K. Preferably during data collection preferably after local thermodynamic equilibrium is established plasma temperatures range from 5 000 20 000 K. At the high temperatures during the early plasma the ablated material dissociates breaks down into excited ionic and atomic species. During this time the plasma emits a continuum of radiation which does not contain any useful information about the species present but within a very small timeframe the plasma expands at supersonic velocities and cools. At this point the characteristic atomic emission lines of the elements can be observed. The delay between the emission of continuum radiation and characteristic radiation is on the order of 1 to 10 s and this is why it is necessary to temporally gate the detector. As the photo detector detects the precise time of the atomic optical emission of the laser media the control system is able to determine the time that the analysis should be performed and turn on an optical gate to collect only the characteristic radiation.

In the alternative other laser based analytical techniques may be used using the same or similar hardware. For example techniques using the vibrational spectroscopic technique of Raman spectroscopy and the fluorescence spectroscopic technique of laser induced fluorescence LIF . Preferably for embodiments using Raman or LIF the detection of atomic optical lasing emissions by the photo detector is simultaneous with output of the atomic optical lasing emission.

The analysis lens focuses light from the atomic optical emission of the laser media and preferably any resulting light emissions for detection by the analysis electronics . In the preferred embodiment the analysis lens is a piano convex or a bi convex lens. In one embodiment the analysis lens has a focal point of about 1 5 centimeters.

The beam splitter is any device which is capable of partially reflecting atomic optical emission of the laser media through the filter to the photo detector . Preferably the beam splitter is a partial reflector orientated to specularly reflect a portion of the atomic optical emission of the laser media through the filter to the photo detector . Preferably the beam splitter is made of fused silica. The beam splitter preferably comprises a thin glass slide or a partially reflecting dielectric thin film coating on an optical substrate. Partially reflecting thin film coatings are preferably made of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium oxides thereof fluorides thereof or combinations thereof. More preferably the coatings preferably comprise materials with various indices of refraction for example as AlO TaO SiO TiO CaF ZrO BeO MgF LaFand AlFor combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment the beam splitter is made of fused silica with vacuum deposited thin films deposited on the primary face to tune the operating wavelength and the reflectivity and an anti reflection coating on the downstream face to improve transmission and reduce undesirable optical effects such as additional off axis reflections and ghosting of the primary optical signal. The partially reflecting thin film is preferably constituted primarily of alternating layers of low index of refraction materials whose presence or absence can be used to tune the reflectivity and the center wavelength to the desired area of operation. The thin films are preferably made up of oxides of Silicon Titanium Tantalum Zirconium Hafnium Scandium Niobium or combinations thereof. The anti reflection coatings preferably comprise a vacuum deposited thin film of Magnesium Fluoride.

In a preferred embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR is an optical coating deposited onto undoped YAG fused silica sapphire or a combination thereof on the laser media the Q switch is comprised of Li F or Cr YAG and is bonded thereof to the laser media and the output coupler OC is an optical coating deposited onto fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or a combination thereof on the laser media .

In a preferred embodiment the high reflectivity mirror HR is an optical coating deposited onto undoped YAG fused silica sapphire or a combination thereof on the laser media the Q switch is comprised of Li F or Cr YAG and is bonded thereof to the laser media and the output coupler OC is an optical coating deposited onto fused silica sapphire undoped YAG or a combination thereof on the laser media .

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

