---

title: Wireless vehicle servicing
abstract: Various embodiments include methods, systems, and computer-program products for wireless vehicle servicing. Instructions for performing a vehicle servicing operation may be received at a servicing terminal. Further, vehicle servicing operation data based on the instructions and data communication rules for communicating data to a vehicle computing system may be received. Servicing request data stored in computer-readable media may be generated and may include the vehicle servicing operation data and the one or more data communication rules. The servicing request data may be transmitted to the vehicle computing system and servicing return data may be received. Servicing status information may be presented on the servicing terminal based on the servicing return data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996232&OS=08996232&RS=08996232
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08996232
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130620
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 773 997 filed May 5 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 498 771 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

One or more embodiments relate to servicing of a vehicle. In some embodiments the servicing may be wireless vehicle servicing. In some further embodiments the wireless vehicle servicing may be based on diagnostic standards.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 778 888 issued to Cataldo et al. discloses a system and method for automated collection of data from a transportation vehicle having a wireless transmitter connected to a diagnostic service bus. The wireless transmitter is in communication with a server for processing and displaying the collected data.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 321 issued to Bromley et al. discloses a remote vehicle diagnostics monitoring configuration and reprogramming tool. The system includes a fleet of vehicles equipped with wireless mobile communications means that enable fleet managers to remotely diagnose monitor and reprogram vehicles in their fleet via an Internet Web based browser environment. Each vehicle within the fleet is equipped with a smart device that is coupled to the data bus within each vehicle. Data commands relating to the vehicle s parameters are sent and received using satellite and terrestrial wireless communications technology. Users remotely perform total fleet logistics and eliminate the need to physically bring fleet vehicles to a repair maintenance or configuration facility.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0177352 discloses a vehicle diagnosis system for ascertaining storing and transmitting diagnosis data from control units in a motor vehicle to a computer outside of the motor vehicle. The diagnosis system has components which are inside of the vehicle and components which are outside of the vehicle. The onboard components are capable of autonomously requesting diagnosis data from control units buffer storing the diagnosis data and of transmitting the diagnosis data to offboard components. The offboard components can be used to configure the onboard components to visually display the transmitted data and to forward the data to subsequent systems. Access is effected using a communication module which is preferably implemented in a diagnosis control unit with a dedicated gateway and which is not the control unit for the central locking A gateway for diagnosis applications is present in the vehicle in the case of vehicles with a diagnosis CAN bus or with another diagnosis bus.

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0253235 to Bi et al. discloses a method of wireless communication with a device. The method includes accessing diagnostic information associated with the device and providing the diagnostic information over an air interface.

One aspect relates to a computer implemented method for remote vehicle servicing. The computer implemented method may include receiving on a servicing terminal instructions for performing a vehicle servicing operation. The vehicle servicing operation may include but is not limited to vehicle diagnostics vehicle module software firmware updates and vehicle key reprogramming.

The method may further include receiving vehicle servicing operation data based on the instructions and one or more data communication rules for communicating data to a vehicle computing system. The data communication rules may include rules relating to transporting the servicing request data packet over a communication channel compatible with the vehicle computing system. The communication channel or mode may be BLUETOOTH cellular or 802.11 communication.

The vehicle servicing operation data may include rules for conforming to a servicing standard for vehicle servicing including but not limited to the J 2534 standard.

The method may further include generating servicing request data stored in computer readable media. Computer readable media may include RAM and or a buffer. The servicing request data may include the vehicle servicing operation data and the one or more data communication rules. The servicing request data may be transmitted to the vehicle computing system and servicing return data may be received from the vehicle computing system. Servicing status information may be presented audibly textually or visually on the servicing terminal based on the servicing return data.

In some embodiments the method may further include receiving over the data communication channel the servicing request data at the vehicle computing system which may be in communication with one or more vehicle modules over a vehicle network. A service to perform may be determined based on the servicing request data. Data may be exchanged over the vehicle network based on the service. The method may further include receiving servicing status data to obtain servicing return data. The servicing return data may be transmitted over the communication channel to the servicing terminal.

The servicing request data may include an authorization key for validating that the vehicle servicing operation is authorized. Validation of the authorization key may be performed onboard of the vehicle computing system or offboard of the vehicle computing system.

The method may further include receiving input from a user defining at least one of the vehicle servicing operations to be performed.

The method may further include processing the servicing return data on the servicing terminal to obtain the servicing status information.

Another aspect may include a computer program product for remote vehicle servicing. The computer program product may include instructions for receiving on a servicing terminal input for performing a vehicle servicing operation receiving vehicle servicing operation data and receiving one or more data communication rules for communicating data to a vehicle computing system. Based on the input the computer program product may further include instructions for transmitting to the vehicle computing system the vehicle servicing operation data based on the one or more data communication rules. The computer program product may further include instructions for receiving from the vehicle computing system servicing return data. Servicing status information may be presented on the servicing terminal based on the servicing return data.

The computer program product may further include instructions for establishing communication with a vehicle information server having a vehicle information database. The vehicle information database may including servicing operation data. The servicing operation data may be received from the vehicle information database. The vehicle servicing operation data may include data relating to at least one of vehicle diagnostics vehicle module software firmware updates and vehicle key reprogramming.

In one embodiment the servicing return data may include vehicle diagnostic trouble codes. The computer program product may further includes instructions for receiving one or more diagnostic data definitions from the vehicle information database for correlating with the diagnostic trouble codes. The diagnostic data definitions may be correlated with the vehicle diagnostic trouble codes for presentation on the service terminal.

Another aspect may include a vehicle servicing system comprising a servicing computer. The servicing computer may be configured to receive vehicle servicing data and rules for data communication with a vehicle computing system VCS . The servicing computer may be further configured to transmit vehicle servicing request data based on the data communication rules and the vehicle servicing data. The servicing computer may be further configured to receive servicing return data and obtain servicing status information based on the servicing return data. The servicing status information may be presented to a user.

In one embodiment the VCS may be configured to retrieve rules for communication with the servicing computer. The return servicing data may include the data communication rules. The servicing computer may be further configured to receive the return servicing data based on the data communication rules.

These and other aspects will be better understood in view of the attached drawings and following detailed description.

Detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of an invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for the claims and or as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

A client terminal which may also be referred to as a diagnostic terminal may be any personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop or handheld nomadic device e.g. PDA mobile phone etc. . Client terminal may have installed diagnostic software for performing processing and presenting diagnostic information to a user at client terminal . The software may be installed via physical storage mediums e.g. CD ROM USB memory card etc. and or wirelessly e.g. and without limitation over an Internet Intranet WAN or LAN connection . The installed software may be fully independent diagnostic program modules and or sub modules e.g. and without limitation dynamic link libraries or DLLs communicating with other software programs. It should be understood that the software is not limited to a particular configuration. For example the diagnostic software may be implemented as a single module or a number of modules communicating with each other. Further details of the diagnostic software will be described below with respect to .

Client terminal may also communicate over a wired or wireless connection with a vehicle information database via a server not shown on which the database may be implemented. The vehicle information database may include vehicle information such as diagnostic information about the vehicle. More specifically database may include diagnostic data definitions of the diagnostic data from a vehicle e.g. diagnostic trouble codes i.e. DTC . The diagnostic data definitions may be displayed to the user from terminal . Other non limiting information that may be included in database may include vehicle software firmware updates and programming re programming information e.g. for vehicle keys . It will be appreciated however that database may include other vehicle related information. In one embodiment the vehicle information may be organized according to a vehicle information number VIN .

A user may include but is not limited to a vehicle owner dealership and or a vehicle service shop. In one embodiment the user may require authorization e.g. and without limitation a username and password or other suitable login information in order to access data from the vehicle information database . Accordingly database may be a secure database. The user authorization information may be provided by an OEM or other entity responsible for managing database . In some embodiments the user authorization information may be given to the user when access subscription fees are paid by the user.

As will be further described below diagnostic information may be exchanged between client terminal and a vehicle for diagnosing one or more vehicle concerns. Non limiting examples of communication modes include wireless such as BLUETOOTH an 802.11 standard communication WiFi WiMax etc. radio frequency RF transmission and cellular and or wired including electrical communication. Other communication modes may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

The vehicle may be outfitted with a vehicle computing system VCS that serves as a gateway for diagnosing one or more vehicle concerns at terminal . illustrates a block topology of the vehicle computing system.

A vehicle enabled with the vehicle computing system may contain a visual front end interface located in the vehicle. The user may also be able to interact with the interface if it is provided for example with a touch sensitive screen. In another illustrative embodiment the interaction occurs through button presses audible speech and speech synthesis.

In the illustrative embodiment shown in a processor controls at least some portion of the operation of the VCS . Provided within the vehicle the processor allows onboard processing of commands and routines. Further the processor is connected to both non persistent and persistent storage . In this illustrative embodiment the non persistent storage is random access memory RAM and the persistent storage is a hard disk drive HDD or flash memory.

The processor is also provided with a number of different inputs allowing the user to interface with the processor. In this illustrative embodiment a microphone an auxiliary input for input a USB input a GPS input and a BLUETOOTH input are all provided. An input selector is also provided to allow a user to swap between various inputs. Input to both the microphone and the auxiliary connector is converted from analog to digital by a converter before being passed to the processor.

Outputs to the system may include but are not limited to a visual display and a speaker or stereo system output. The speaker may be connected to an amplifier and may receive its signal from the processor through a digital to analog converter . Output can also be made to a remote BLUETOOTH device such as PND or a USB device such as vehicle navigation device along the bi directional data streams shown at and respectively.

In one illustrative embodiment the system uses the BLUETOOTH transceiver to communicate with a user s nomadic device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA etc. . The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower .

Exemplary communication between the nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver is represented by signal .

Pairing a nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver can be instructed through a button or similar input. Accordingly the CPU is instructed that the CPU that the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver will be paired with a BLUETOOTH transceiver not shown in a nomadic device .

Data may be communicated between CPU and network utilizing for example a data plan data over voice or DTMF tones associated with nomadic device . Alternatively it may be desirable to include an onboard modem having antenna in order to communicate data between CPU and network over the voice band. The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments the modem may establish communication with the tower for communicating with network . As a non limiting example modem may be a USB cellular modem and communication may be cellular communication.

In one illustrative embodiment the processor is provided with an operating system including an API to communicate with modem application software. The modem application software may access an embedded module or firmware on the BLUETOOTH transceiver to complete wireless communication with a remote BLUETOOTH transceiver such as that found in a nomadic device .

In another embodiment nomadic device includes a modem for voice band or broadband data communication. In the data over voice embodiment a technique known as frequency division multiplexing may be implemented when the owner of the nomadic device can talk over the device while data is being transferred. At other times when the owner is not using the device the data transfer can use the whole bandwidth 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz in one example .

If the user has a data plan associated with the nomadic device it is possible that the data plan allows for broad band transmission and the system could use a much wider bandwidth speeding up data transfer . In still another embodiment nomadic device may be replaced with a cellular communication device not shown that is installed to vehicle . In yet another embodiment the ND may be a wireless local area network LAN device capable of communication over for example and without limitation an 802.11g network i.e. WiFi or a WiMax network.

In one embodiment incoming data can be passed through the nomadic device via a data over voice or data plan through the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver and into the vehicle s internal processor . In the case of certain temporary data for example the data can be stored on the HDD or other storage media until such time as the data is no longer needed.

Additional sources that may interface with the VCS include a personal navigation device having for example a USB connection and or an antenna a vehicle navigation device having a USB or other connection an onboard GPS device or a remote navigation system not shown having connectivity to network .

Further the CPU may be in communication with a variety of other auxiliary devices . These devices can be connected through a wireless or wired connection such as a USB connection . Also or alternatively the CPU may be connected to a vehicle based wireless router using for example a WiFi transceiver . This could allow the CPU to connect to remote networks in range of the local router .

The vehicle servicing system may be utilized by a user when attempting to address one or more vehicle concerns for a vehicle. provide further details on the data exchange process between a client terminal and the vehicle i.e. the VCS for addressing these vehicle concerns. It should be understood that the operation of the vehicle servicing system is not limited to occur on a system having the architecture illustrated in . For example and without limitation all or most of the operation may occur onboard the vehicle e.g. and without limitation on the VCS . As another example while terminal is illustrated in the Figures as an offboard component the system may be modified such that terminal is an onboard component in the vehicle and accordingly at least part of the operation is performed in the vehicle.

Referring now to vehicle servicing software may be installed on the client terminal block . In one embodiment the software may be installed via a physical storage medium or wirelessly prior to or upon first use of the servicing software . The software may be obtained from a vehicle dealership an OEM or a third party such as a vehicle service shop and stored on a physical medium. In some embodiments the software may be obtained from a third party application provider such as the APPLE STORE BLACKBERRY APP WORLD or ITUNES. In further embodiments the software may be downloaded to the client terminal e.g. and without limitation over the Internet from a website.

As described above software may be a self sufficient program a sub module communicating with other programs or combinations thereof. In one embodiment software is implemented in client as a dynamic link library DLL . One of ordinary skill in the art will know and understand the function and operation of DLLs.

In one embodiment the client terminal may include an application programming interface API for communicating with a program that defines specific standards by which vehicle diagnostic must take place. In some countries such as the United States these standards may be mandated by a government agency such as the Environmental Protection Agency so that vehicle diagnostics may be standardized for all vehicle diagnosticians from individuals to vehicle dealerships. One example of such a standard is the J2534 standard defined by the Society of Automotive Engineers SAE . These standards may be implemented in the program as diagnostic rules that are used to request diagnostic information from a vehicle.

As illustrated in block the servicing software may be run or loaded from terminal . The software may be user activated or called by another program e.g. another diagnostic program .

The diagnostic software may offer a number of different servicing operations. Non limiting examples of such servicing operations may include vehicle diagnostics updating vehicle modules software firmware and programming e.g. key reprogramming . Accordingly the software may receive an operation selection input from the user selecting one or more of servicing operations block . The user input may or may not be in response to a request from the software for the user to input a service operation selection.

In one embodiment information for performing the service operation and other vehicle information may be received from the vehicle information database . Accordingly the software may determine if a connection is available with the vehicle information database block . If a connection is not available the software via terminal may connect to the vehicle information database the server not shown on which the database is implemented as represented by circle block A and illustrated in .

Referring to a request to connect to the vehicle information database may be transmitted from the terminal block . The request may be transmitted manually e.g. via user action or automatically.

In one embodiment the user may need to be authorized before access to the vehicle information database is granted. Accordingly a request for authorization information may be transmitted from the server housing database and received at terminal block . Non limiting examples of authorization information may include any secure way of identifying an authorized user e.g. and without limitation a username and password . The user may input authorization information and the authorization information may be transmitted to the server for access to database block .

As illustrated in block the authorization information may be validated. If the authorization information is not recognized or does not pass another request for authorization information may be received at terminal and the information re transmitted block . If the authorization information is valid or passes the connection to the database is established . The process may then continue at circle block B . It should be understood that a database connection may be established at anytime that is suitable for the various contemplations of the invention.

If and when a connection to the database is established block the software may retrieve vehicle servicing operation information based on the vehicle servicing operation selected block . For example if the user selected module updates update patches may be retrieved from the vehicle information database . As another non limiting example reprogramming information for reprogramming the vehicle to recognize a key or reprogramming information for reprogramming a key can be obtained from the vehicle information database . As another non limiting example which will be described in further detail below diagnostic data definitions may also be retrieved from the database . The diagnostic data definitions may be definitions of diagnostic trouble codes DTCs received from the vehicle.

Retrieving vehicle servicing operation information block may also include retrieving the servicing compliance rules from the vehicle servicing standards program via the API described above for transmission to the VCS . The servicing compliance rules may apply to all vehicle servicing operations. Thus once the software is activated the software may communicate with the API at client terminal in order to retrieve the servicing compliance rules from the vehicle servicing standards program . The servicing information that is retrieved by the software may be buffered in memory not shown of the client terminal until the information is transmitted to the VCS .

Prior to transmission the servicing operation information may be packetized for transmission as a data packet to the VCS block . Other data may also be included in the data packet s . For example and without limitation software may also packet communication rules for communicating data packets to the VCS block . Non limiting examples may include BLUETOOTH profile information wireless internet protocol IP addresses a cellular device number a network address i.e. a media access control address and other like information. The communication rules may also include rules on obtaining access to the VCS and its services e.g. authorization information for unlocking diagnostic services . The VCS communication rules may be received by calling other software program s from the client terminal memory not shown or the rules may be hard programmed to the software . It should be understood that these examples of obtaining communication rules are non limiting. Further it will be appreciated that other vehicle servicing related and non vehicle servicing related data may be included in the data packet s without departing from the scope and spirit of the various embodiments.

The servicing operation information and the communication rules may be packetized by the software to generate a servicing data packet s block . The data packet s may be held at the terminal until transmission of at least one of the data packets. In one embodiment the data packet s may be stored in memory e.g. non persistent volatile memory such as RAM . Additionally or alternatively the data packet s may be held in a buffer not shown of the terminal . It should be understood that the data packet s may be held in other suitable computer readable media of terminal without departing from the scope and spirit of the various embodiments.

The servicing data packet s may be wirelessly transmitted to the VCS block through wireless cloud . In one embodiment the servicing data packet s may be transmitted using a specific protocol designed for the VCS .

The wireless cloud may include but is not limited to BLUETOOTH an 802.11 wireless standard WiFi WiMax etc. cellular and or RF communication. In one embodiment a BLUETOOTH enabled remote terminal may communicate with the VCS within a certain radius of the wireless cloud . In one non limiting embodiment the radius may be 32 feet.

As illustrated in block a determination may be made whether the transmission was successful. If not the servicing data packet may be re transmitted block . In some embodiments the servicing data packet s may be re transmitted a predetermined number of times. If data packet s are not successfully transmitted the transmission may terminate.

If the transmission is successful software at terminal which may or may not be software may wait for a response from the vehicle with service information. The service information may be a return data packet including the diagnostic vehicle data e.g. DTCs and or a servicing status. Once the return data packet is received and processed at terminal the service information may be output from terminal block . Output may include but is not limited to a graphical audible or tactile output. Further details of the return data packet and the processing of the data for output will be described below.

The VCS may be outfitted with a wireless server which may understand and implement diagnostic identifiers i.e. diagnostic parameters also known as DID and DTC requests from the terminal . Accordingly in one embodiment wireless server may receive the service data packet s from the terminal . The wireless server may be a BLUETOOTH server or 802.11 server. In some embodiments the wireless server may not be a physical component of the VCS but a service implemented in the wireless cloud .

Requests to and responses from the vehicle may be exchanged securely over a secured connection between the wireless server and the VCS . In one embodiment the exchanged data may be encrypted.

In one embodiment when data is transmitted to the VCS for accessing the various services from the VCS e.g. diagnostics the data may first need to be authorized as permitted to access the one or more service of the VCS . Thus an authorization process may be performed at the vehicle block . In one embodiment the authorization process may be performed by an authorization module not shown in the VCS . illustrates a non limiting example of the VCS service authorization process.

As illustrated in block the VCS service that is being accessed may be identified. In this case a determination is made whether the diagnostics service is being access block . Although illustrates that a determination may be made whether a diagnostic service is being accessed block the operation is not limited to making this determination. The determination may relate to any service however other services fall outside of the scope of the invention. As such if the diagnostics service is not being accessed then the authorization process may be performed for the other service s block .

The servicing data transmitted from the terminal may include an authorization key for unlocking the diagnostics service. In one embodiment this authorization key may be one of the VCS communication rules packetized at the terminal for transmission to the vehicle . Upon determining that the diagnostics service is being accessed the authorization key may be retrieved and transmitted for validation block onboard or offboard. Where the validation is offboard the authorization key and validation may be transmitted to from an offboard authorization system via network . In one embodiment the offboard authorization system may be hosted and operated by an OEM.

The authorization key validation process may include a challenge operation for validating the authorization key block . Non limiting examples of such challenge operations may include performing a look up in an authorization database determining if a correlation exists between the transmitted authorization key and the valid authorization key determining if a match exists between the transmitted authorization key and the valid authorization key or other suitable validation techniques. A successful challenge may result in the generation and or receipt of a security key for transmission to the VCS .

Based on the validation process a validation pass result may be transmitted to the VCS block . If the authorization key does not pass the validation process the process may terminate block . If the authorization key is validated the security key may be transmitted to the VCS block .

As illustrated in block an additional validation process may occur at the VCS . The VCS may store e.g. and without limitation in RAM a security key corresponding to the security key received as part of the authorization process described above. Accordingly the VCS may determine if the security keys correspond. In one embodiment validating the security keys may include a similar challenge process as described above.

If the security key is not validated the process may terminate block . Otherwise the servicing diagnostics service on the VCS may be accessed or unlocked block .

Referring back to after receiving unpacking the servicing data packet block the servicing operation request unpacked from the servicing data packet may be received block at the VCS e.g. and without limitation by wireless server . In addition instructions may be received to perform one or more vehicle servicing operations.

In one embodiment a determination may be made as to what service operation s is being requested block . As illustrated in a determination may be made whether vehicle diagnostics is being requested. It should be understood however that this determination should not be interpreted as a default or the initial determination made by the VCS . Rather the arrangement of is for illustration and explanation and that the determination in block may be made for any one of the service operation based on the request.

If the request is for vehicle diagnostics the VCS may receive one or more diagnostic trouble codes DTC from the vehicle modules by communicating with the one or more vehicle modules over a vehicle network block . One or more data packets may be generated and packaged at the VCS which may include the one or more DTCs as part of servicing status data in the data packet s transmitted to terminal block . The data packet s may be held at the terminal VCS until transmission of at least one data packets. In one embodiment the data packet s may be stored in memory e.g. non persistent volatile memory such as RAM . Additionally or alternatively the data packet s may be held in a buffer not shown of the VCS . It should be understood that the data packet s may be held in other suitable computer readable media of VCS without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

Otherwise if the service operation is not vehicle diagnostics the servicing status of the other operation s may be received during and or upon completion of the servicing operation according to the request block . For example where the request is for a software firmware update the update request may be received and the update data may be transmitted to the software firmware. The status of this update may be received as data for packaging in the return servicing data packet.

Some or all of the status data may be packaged block in data packet s and transmitted block to the terminal as servicing return data packet s . It should be understood that the return servicing data packet s may include at least some of the same information as the servicing request data packet s described above. As a non limiting example the return data packet s may include the communication rules for data communication between the VCS and the terminal .

As described above the data from the return servicing data packet s may be extracted and processed at terminal and the servicing status may be output from the terminal . The output may be used to address vehicle concerns and or as confirmation of the vehicle servicing process. The data from the return servicing data packet s may be processed for output by a single service diagnostic software module housed in terminal e.g. software or by a combination of the diagnostic and servicing software modules in terminal .

While exemplary embodiments are illustrated and described above it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possibilities. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

While exemplary embodiments are described above it is not intended that these embodiments describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally the features of various implementing embodiments may be combined to form further embodiments of the invention.

