---

title: Method and system for assistive photography
abstract: The disclosure relates generally to photography techniques, and more specifically to a method and system for assistive photography. In one embodiment, an assistive photography method is disclosed, which comprises: capturing one or more image frames of a subject using a photographic device, selecting dynamically, using one or more processors, an assistive stencil based on the one or more image frames and at least one predefined subject photograph requirement; and providing the dynamically selected assistive stencil in a preview display of the photographic device; wherein the assistive stencil assists in at least partially satisfying the at least one predefined subject photograph requirement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232143&OS=09232143&RS=09232143
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09232143
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20131031
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 4209 CHE 2013 filed Sep. 18 2013 titled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ASSISTIVE PHOTOGRAPHY. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to photography techniques and more specifically to a method and system for assistive photography.

With the increase in quality and popularity of devices having photograph capturing functionality such as camera mobile phones and tablets photographs are increasingly gaining importance in the processes defined for different purposes. For example photographs are used for the purpose of situation documentation subject identification and subject condition assessment. For such uses the photographs may need to meet certain requirements to qualify for usage. For example an officer inspecting a building for construction violations with respect to an approved plan or building bye laws of a state may require specific views of the house and surrounding areas to be captured.

Photographs taken using standard photography may not meet the desired requirements. This may be due to the photographer s lack of knowledge of the requirements or due to manual error by the photographer. Further there is no standardized way to specify and communicate the photography requirements to an end user. There may also be cases where some or all of the requirements are not communicated explicitly but remain as implicit requirements.

In one embodiment an assistive photography method is disclosed comprising capturing one or more image frames of a subject using a photographic device selecting dynamically using one or more processors an assistive stencil based on the one or more image frames and at least one predefined subject photograph requirement and providing the dynamically selected assistive stencil in a preview display of the photographic device wherein the assistive stencil assists in at least partially satisfying the at least one predefined subject photograph requirement.

In one embodiment a photographic device is disclosed comprising a processor a preview display and a memory disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions to capture one or more image frames of a subject and select dynamically an assistive stencil based on the one or more image frames and at least one predefined subject photograph requirement wherein the assistive stencil assists in at least partially satisfying the at least one predefined subject photograph requirement and providing via the preview display the dynamically selected assistive stencil.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Now exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While exemplary embodiments and features are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the subject matter. Instead the proper scope of the subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The image frames of the subject may be used to automatically determine a relative position between the subject and the photographic device at step . In some embodiments feature based object tracking mechanisms may be used to determine the relative position. In an exemplary embodiment if the image frames indicate that a complete left profile view of a car has been captured then the photographic device and possibly the user of the photographic device may be inferred to be to the left of the car and a certain distance away from the car. Similarly if the image frames indicate that only a partial left profile view is captured then the position of the photographic device may be inferred to be to the left of the car and at a closer distance to the car. The image frames may be deemed to indicate the complete left profile view of the car or a partial left profile of the car if the image frames match preexisting images corresponding to a complete left profile image of the car or a partial left profile image of the car respectively to a predefined degree. In some embodiments various images of the car may be preloaded into the photographic device in order to perform the comparison. In some other embodiments the various images of the car may be available on a server and may be accessible by the photographic device. The subject and or relative position may be identified in some embodiments manually a user interface may be provided via a preview display of the photographic device listing a selection of possible subject identifications and relative positions e.g. car front house east corner building rear etc. and a user of the photographic device may select a subject identification and relative position from the presented listing.

Thereafter at step an assistive stencil may be dynamically provided in a preview display of the photographic device based on the image frames and one or more predefined subject photograph requirements. Here the subject photograph requirements may correspond to certain conditions that have to be satisfied in order for the photograph to be acceptable for a particular purpose. The subject photograph requirements may be predefined by an authorizing authority. For example a user may have to submit photographs of a vehicle damaged in an accident to an insurance company for claims processing. In order for the photographs to be accepted by the insurance company the insurance company may specify one or more requirements that are to be met by the photographs. As an example a requirement specified by the insurance company may be that each of the doors of the car is to be photographed separately. In some embodiments each requirement specified by the authorizing authority may include a requirement ID a requirement name a requirement description and a requirement priority that classifies whether the requirement is optional or mandatory. An exemplary set of requirements is illustrated below 

In some embodiments the subject photograph requirements may be defined by the authorizing authority and provided on a server. A user may then download the requirements and save it locally on the photographic device. The subject photograph requirements and the image frames of the subject may be used to identify and select one or more assistive stencils that are to be provided to the user in order to capture photographs that satisfy the requirements. For example if the image frames indicate that the photographic device is pointed at the front view of a house assistive stencils may be provided to the user to satisfy requirements if any associated with the front view. If more than one requirement is associated with the front view of the house then more than one stencil may be provided to the user. In some embodiments a single assistive stencil may be provided to satisfy a requirement. In other embodiments more than one assistive stencil may be provided one after the other in order to satisfy a requirement. For example a requirement may specify that the front view of a house is to be captured. However if the distance in front of the house is not sufficient for the user to go back far enough to photograph the entire front view in accordance with an assistive stencil of the front view then two stencils may be provided to the user one after the other one stencil to assist the user to capture a front left perspective view and another stencil to assist the user to capture a front right perspective view. The photographs captured using these two stencils may together satisfy the requirement of capturing the front view of the house. The assistive stencils may be provided to the user until all the requirements have been met. If for example there are no requirements to be satisfied from the current position of the user with respect to the subject then the user may be prompted to move to a new position. Similarly if an assistive stencil is provided to the user and the user is not able to capture an image to conform to the provided stencil then after a predefined time period one or more alternate stencils may be provided to the user. Here the alternate stencils may enable the user to capture photographs that satisfy the requirements associated with the initial stencil.

The one or more assistive stencils may be adaptively and dynamically provided based on the relative position of the user of the photographic device with respect to the subject. The image frames captured when a user points the photographic device at the subject may be analyzed to determine the position of the user and accordingly one or more stencils may be provided. The position of the user relative to the subject may be determined using computer vision methodologies such as feature based object tracking. Thus two different sets of assistive stencils may be provided to satisfy the same set of requirements if two users attempt to take photographs of a subject from two different positions relative to the subject. Appropriate stencils may be provided based on the user s position to satisfy all the requirements from that position.

In some embodiments the assistive stencils provided to the user may be selected from a set of stencils saved locally on the photographic device. The set of stencils may be downloaded to the photographic device during configuration of the photographic device or at a later point of time and saved locally. Here each set of stencils may correspond to a subject or object associated with the user. For example if the user owns two different cars then two sets of stencils each corresponding to one car may be downloaded by the user from a repository. Thereafter on capturing image frames of the subject one or more of the locally saved stencils may be provided to assist the user to capture photographs that meet the predefined requirements. In some other embodiments the one or more assistive stencils may be obtained from a server in real time. In this case the image frames captured by the photographic device may be transmitted to a server over a wired or wireless communication link. Thereafter the image frames may be processed by the server and accordingly one or more assistive stencils may be selected to be provided to the user. These selected stencils may then be communicated to the photographic device over wired or wireless communication links.

In addition to providing the assistive stencils based on the requirements to be met other parameters such as but not limited to the capabilities of the photographic device the current environmental conditions the user preferences and the user behavior history may be considered when providing the adaptive stencils. In some embodiments the capabilities of the photographic device such as but not limited to processing capabilities storage capabilities type of optical lens used in the photographic device pixel resolution of the photographic device etc. may be determined and accordingly assistive stencils may be provided. For example if the pixel resolution of the photographic device is low then the assistive stencils provided to the user may be stencils that assist the user to take a photograph from a close distance from the subject. Such stencils which enable the user to take a close up photograph of the subject may minimize noise or distortion in the photograph caused by the low pixel resolution of the photographic device thus making the photograph acceptable. Further sensors associated with the photographic device may be used to determine the prevalent light conditions. For example a light sensor may determine the intensity of light in the proximity of the photographic device at a given point of time. Poor light may require that a photograph is to be taken from a distance close to the subject and hence a different set of stencils may be provided than when light conditions are good. Alternatively the photographic device may be configured to access a weather server to determine weather conditions for a location. The exact location of the photographic device may be determined by using a Global Position System GPS receiver associated with the photographic device.

In some embodiments one or more preferences of the user may be considered while selecting an assistive stencil to be provided to the user. The user may indicate preferences such as a color of the stencil to be provided and thickness of the outline associated with the stencil. The user may also indicate if the stencil is to be displayed statically at one location in the preview display or if the stencils should dynamically move to conform to the subject. The user preferences may be explicitly specified by the user or may be learned based on user behavior history.

The assistive stencils provided to the user for a subject may be pre created based on one or more photographs or images of the subject. For example if stencils are to be created for a car the images of the car from various online and offline sources may be used to create the assistive stencils. The assistive stencils may be images having only minimalistic details of the subject tracked as opaque and rest of the surfaces of the subject left transparent. The stencils may be two dimensional stencils or three dimensional stencils. In order to create the assistive stencils for a subject different views of the subject may be photographed and stencils created for the subject. and illustrate an exemplary photograph of a subject and a stencil created from the photograph respectively. For example the photograph may have exemplary features such as opaque chimney opaque walls transparent or translucent windows and on different floors of the building that is the subject of the photograph opaque or transparent or translucent doors and features defining the boundaries or partitions within the subject or the like. A stencil corresponding to this subject identified in the photograph may have corresponding exemplary features such as transparent chimney transparent walls transparent windows and on different floors of the building that is the subject of the photograph opaque doors and edge features defining the boundaries or partitions within the subject or the like.

On creating the stencils the stencils may be configured by manually marking areas within the stencil to correspond to the areas of the subject as illustrated in . For example in the stencil of may be used and features of the subject e.g. chimney second floor window first floor window front door first floor second floor etc. may be identified and labeled digitally. The information associated with the stencils may be structurally and hierarchically configured and managed as individual stencil parts. Each stencil part may include a stencil part ID a stencil part name a stencil part description to identify the stencil part and reference data corresponding to the stencil part that may be used to compare the subject part in any given image frames with respect to the stencil part. Further each stencil part may also include information identifying the stencil ID to which the stencil part belongs and also relationship of the stencil part with respect to the stencil. The configuration of the stencil assists in determining which stencils are to be provided for which requirement.

Referring back to after the assistive stencil is provided to the user the user may align the stencil with the subject and provide an input to capture a digital photograph of the subject at step . The input may include but is not limited to the user pressing a physical button on the photographic device or interacting with a touch sensitive area of the preview display. When a user provides the input a point in time image of the subject may be captured and saved in a memory of the photographic device. In some embodiments a digital photograph of the subject may be automatically captured when the stencil is substantially aligned with the subject to be photographed. Once a photograph of the subject is captured the user may be allowed to mark one or more areas of interest in the digital photograph at step . The user may be provided a user interface to mark the one or more areas. In other embodiments if a display associated with the photographic device is touch sensitive the user may interact directly with the touch sensitive display in order to mark the one or more areas of interest.

In some other embodiments the marking of the one or more areas of interest may trigger one or more second assistive stencils to be provided to the user. In other words marking of an area of interest may trigger further granular stencils associated with the marked area of interest to be provided to the user. For example if photographs of a damaged car are to be submitted to an insurance company in order to process the claims the user may mark an area of damage say a portion of the front passenger door. Now based on this feedback from the user one or more assistive stencils corresponding to the front passenger door may be provided to capture more detailed photographs of the damaged area. In some embodiments the one or more second assistive stencils may be provided from a server. In this case the photograph taken by the user as well as the markings made by the user is transmitted to the server in order to select and obtain the one or more stencils.

At step the photograph captured based on the provided assistive stencil may be validated against the requirements that the photograph is supposed to meet. In other words the photograph may be checked to verify if the requirements for that photograph have been satisfied. The photograph may be validated by comparing the photograph against a preexisting photograph corresponding to the stencil that was provided to the user. For example if a requirement indicates a rear view of a car is to be captured and a corresponding stencil is provided to enable the user to take a photograph of the rear view then the photograph taken using the stencil may be compared against a preexisting photograph of the rear view of the car in order to validate the photograph that was captured using the stencil. In addition to the requirements that are to be met for the photograph the photograph may also be checked to determine if any other partial or complete requirements have been inadvertently met in the photograph. Based on the validation of the photograph one or more second assistive stencils may be provided to the user at step . If a photograph meets some requirements but fails to meet some others then further stencils may be provided to the user that focuses on the requirements that were not met. For example two requirements for a photograph of a building may include a front view of the building is to be covered and 30 feet to the left of the building is to be covered . On validating the photograph if it is found that the front view requirement is satisfied but the 30 feet to the left of the building is to be covered requirement is not satisfied then further stencils may be provided to assist the user to capture a photo that satisfies that requirement. If a photograph inadvertently partially or completely satisfies a requirement that was not meant to be satisfied by that photograph then additional stencils to capture that satisfied part of the requirement may not be provided to the user. illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a captured photograph and illustrates various requirements that have either been satisfied or left unsatisfied in the photograph . Here the intended requirement for the photograph may be to capture the name of the building. In addition to the intended requirement an unintended requirement 2nd floor of the building has to be covered. View from any side is fine may also have been partially captured as shown in see element and B see elements . As a result additional stencils which cover the already captured partial requirement may not need to be provided to the user.

A photographic device for assisting a user to capture photographs that conform to one or more requirements will now be described in conjunction with . Photographic device may include a processor a preview display and a memory disposed in communication with processor and storing processor executable instructions. The instructions may comprise instructions to capture one or more image frames of a subject select dynamically an assistive stencil based on the one or more image frames and at least one predefined subject photograph requirement and provide via preview display the dynamically selected assistive stencil. Here the one or more assistive stencils may assist the user to at least partially satisfy the at least one predefined requirement of the photograph of the subject.

In order to capture the image frames a camera not shown in associated with photographic device may be pointed at the subject of interest. In the context of this disclosure the image frames may correspond to continuous frames of the subject that are received via the camera lens when the camera is pointed at the subject. Thus capturing the image frames of the subject may not require taking a photograph of the subject. Usually a photograph represents a point in time image of the subject that is saved either on a photographic film or is stored electronically. The images frames as described in conjunction with this disclosure may represent in some embodiments a continuous real time set of frames of the subject. The image frames may not be required to be stored or may be stored temporarily for a period of time.

Photographic device may further include instructions stored in memory to determine a relative position between the subject and photographic device . One or more assistive stencils may then be selected based on the relative position and the one or more subject photograph requirements. Additionally the capabilities of photographic device the current environmental conditions the user preferences and the user behavior history may determine which stencils are selected to be presented as explained in conjunction with . Here the requirements of the photograph may correspond to certain conditions that have to be satisfied in order for the photograph to be acceptable for a particular purpose. The requirements for a photograph may be predefined by an authorizing authority. In some embodiments the requirements associated with a photograph may be defined by the authorizing authority and provided on a server. A user may then download the requirements and save it locally on the photographic device. The subject photograph requirements and the image frames of the subject may be used to select one or more assistive stencils that are to be provided to the user in order to capture photographs that satisfy the requirements. One or more than one stencil may be selected to be provided to the user in order to satisfy a single requirement as explained in conjunction with . The one or more assistive stencils may be adaptively and dynamically provided based on the relative position of photographic device with respect to the subject. The image frames captured when a user points the photographic device at the subject may be analyzed to determine the position of photographic device and accordingly one or more stencils may be provided.

In some embodiments the assistive stencils provided to the user may be selected from a set of stencils saved in memory of photographic device . The set of stencils may be downloaded to memory from a web server during configuration of the photographic device or at a later point of time and saved locally. In some other embodiments the one or more assistive stencils may be provided directly from the web server in real time. In this case the image frames captured by photographic device may be transmitted to the web server over a wired or wireless communication link. Thereafter the image frames may be processed by the web server and accordingly one or more assistive stencils may be selected to be provided to the user. These selected stencils may then be communicated to photographic device over the wired or wireless communication link. The assistive stencils provided to the user for a subject may be pre created based on one or more photographs or images of the subject as explained in conjunction with .

After the assistive stencil is provided to the user the user may align the stencil with the subject and provide an input such as pressing a physical button not shown in on photographic device or interacting with a touch sensitive area of preview display . Photographic device may include instructions to capture a digital photograph of the subject in response to the input by the user. When the user provides the input a point in time image of the subject may be captured and saved in memory of photographic device . In some embodiments a digital photograph of the subject may be automatically captured when the stencil is substantially aligned with the subject to be photographed.

Photographic device may further include a user interface not shown in to allow the user to mark one or more areas of interest in the digital photograph. In some embodiments if a display associated with the photographic device is touch sensitive the user may interact directly with the touch sensitive display in order to mark the one or more areas of interest. In some embodiments the user may mark areas on the digital photograph to add additional information for a requirement or for a purpose. Various properties of the marking including color of a marking line thickness of the marking line color of the marking area pressure applied while marking etc. may indicate additional information. In some other embodiments the marking of the one or more areas of interest may trigger one or more second assistive stencils to be provided to the user. In other words marking of an area of interest may trigger further granular stencils associated with the marked area of interest to be provided to the user as explained in conjunction with . In some embodiments the one or more second assistive stencils may be provided from a server. In this case the photograph taken by the user as well as the markings made by the user is transmitted to the web server in order to select one or more stencils that are to be provided to the user.

In some embodiments on capturing the digital photograph of the subject in accordance with the assistive stencil instructions stored in memory may cause the digital photograph to be validated against the requirements that the photograph is supposed to meet. In other words the digital photograph may be checked to verify if the requirements for that photograph have been satisfied. In addition to the requirements that are to be met for the photograph the photograph may also be checked to determine if any other partial or complete requirements have been inadvertently met in the photograph. Based on the validation of the photograph further assistive stencils may be provided to the user. If a photograph meets some requirements but fails to meet some others then further stencils may be provided to the user that focuses on the requirements that were not met. If a photograph inadvertently partially or completely satisfies a requirement that was not meant to be satisfied by that photograph then additional stencils to capture that satisfied part of the requirement may not be provided to the user.

Thus the method and system disclosed herein may enable a user to capture photographs that comply with certain conditions or requirements that make the photograph acceptable for a particular purpose. Since the assistive stencils are provided dynamically and in real time depending on the position of the user the stencils may assist the user to a greater degree. Further by adapting the stencils provided based on the image frames seen by the photographic device and also various other device or environmental constraints the probability of the photographs being rejected for non compliance with the requirements may be minimized.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera charge coupled device CCD card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and system for assistive photography. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

Other embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the disclosure being indicated by the following claims.

