---

title: Hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein compositions for induction of DNA damage, cell death and LSD1 inhibition
abstract: Compositions comprising hydroxytyrosol-containing formulations and treatment regiments comprising hydroxytyrosol and/or oleuropein and chemotherapeutic agents are disclosed. Compositions and/or regiments may optionally include the administration of vitamins, minerals, and anti-oxidants. Methods for using these compositions and treatment regimens for treating subjects for diseases, such as a malignancy, and for inducing or enhancing angiogenesis, treating or preventing oxidative stress, for treating or preventing high glucose-induced dysfunction, treating or preventing chemotherapy-induced dysfunction, and for improving cell viability are provided. Various methods for use of the hydroxytyrosol compositions for inhibition of lysine specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) in various cancers are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09144555&OS=09144555&RS=09144555
owner: 
number: 09144555
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application claims priority and is related to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 819 226 filed on May 3 2013 and entitled Hydroxytyrosol Compositions for Induction of DNA Damage and Cell Death and Inhibition of LSD1 and to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 731 598 filed on Nov. 30 2012 and entitled Hydroxytyrosol Compositions for Induction of DNA Damage and Cell Death. The entire contents of this patent application are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference including without limitation the specification claims and abstract as well as any figures tables or drawings thereof.

The invention relates to compositions comprising hydroxytyrosol HT and HT containing formulations and treatment regiments comprising hydroxytyrosol compositions and HT containing formulations and or oleuropein and chemotherapeutic agents. Compositions and or regiments may optionally include the administration of vitamins minerals and or anti oxidants. Methods for using these compositions and treatment regimens for treating subjects for diseases such as a malignancy and for inducing or enhancing angiogenesis treating or preventing oxidative stress for treating or preventing high glucose induced dysfunction treating or preventing chemotherapy induced dysfunction and for improving cell viability are provided. The invention further relates to various methods for use of the hydroxytyrosol compositions and HT containing formulations for inhibition of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 in various cancers.

The beneficial health effects of phenolic compounds isolated from are now evident. In particular the antioxidant and anti inflammatory properties of hydroxytyrosol have been widely investigated and shown to have beneficial uses as an antioxidant for the treatment of oxygen free radical associated diseases or conditions. Specifically United States Patent Pub. No. US 2011 0034519 A1 describes compositions for and methods of administration of hydroxytyrosol and optionally other dietary supplements to a subject in need thereof for the inhibition and treatment of necrosis and extended quiescence that result in cellular necrosis instead of normal proliferation which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition the beneficial properties of hydroxytyrosol for reversing damage to cells promoting wound healing and inhibiting necrosis have been similarly demonstrated. Specifically United States Patent Pub. No. US 2013 0266545 A1 describes compositions and methods for reversing damage to skin cells and in particular to compositions and methods for wound healing and inhibiting necrosis for example in the treatment of skin that is distressed or wounded as result of a disease or other biological condition or process.

Compounds for treatment of diseases are often non naturally occurring cause harmful side effects and are expensive to produce. Chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer can be prohibitively expensive and cause a variety of serious side effects. It is therefore unexpected and desirable that the co therapy and or co administration of regimens comprising hydroxytyrosol and chemotherapeutic agents demonstrate beneficial results in treating malignancy.

Furthermore oxidants and free radical species such as reactive oxygen species ROS are known to contribute to cell damage and or cell death as well as having a role in various metabolic and immune system processes. Synthetic antioxidants such as butylated hydroxyanisole BHA and butylated hydroxytoluene BHT and tertiary butylhydroquinone TBHQ have demonstrated carcinogenicity and other toxic properties underscoring the need for natural antioxidants. Growing evidence links antioxidants with a decreased risk of chronic diseases such as coronary heart disease cancer and several other aging related health concerns Tahseen Iqbal et al. Antioxidant Activity and Volatile and Phenolic Profiles of Essential Oil and Different Extracts of Wild Mint from the Pakistani Flora Journal of Analytical Methods in Chemistry 2013 vol. 2013 Article ID 536490 . Oxidative stress has been linked to collateral damage in cancer chemotherapy. See e.g. Yumin Chen et al. Collateral Damage in Cancer Chemotherapy Oxidative Stress in Nontargeted Tissues 2007 Mol. Interventions. 7 3 147 156 . Antioxidant activity has also been linked to wound healing. See e.g. Arti Shukla et al. Asiaticoside induced Elevation of Antioxidant Levels in Healing Wounds 1999 Phytother. Res. 13 50 54 to induction of angiogenesis see Elena Daghini et al. Antioxidant vitamins induce angiogenesis in the normal pig kidney 2007 American Journal of Physiology Renal Physiology. 293 F371 F381 and high glucose induced dysfunction see G. Cohen et al. The roles of hyperglycaemia and oxidative stress in the rise and collapse of the natural protective mechanism against vascular endothelial cell dysfunction in diabetes 2007 113 4 5 259 267 . Reduction in the concentration of one or more radical species in a biological environment thus has benefits in various biological environments for amelioration of a host of conditions. As a result compounds capable of enhancing the antioxidant capability in cells animals or individuals are important tools in treating or preventing a wide range of conditions. The expression of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 in various cancers is prevalent and represents a potential mechanism for prevention treatment and or detection of cancers. Conventional efforts to develop specific inhibitors of the LDS1 protein expressed in a majority of cancers have had limited success to date. In particular development of specific inhibitors of the LDS1 protein active and binding sites has not resulted in significant advances in cancer treatment and or prevention. However the inhibition of LSD1 activity by hydroxytyrosol hydroxytyrosol derivatives substituted hydroxytyrosol compounds and or hydroxytyrosol prodrugs has provided surprising and unexpected results demonstrating at least equivalent LSD1 inhibition or superior inhibition to known LSDI inhibitors.

Accordingly it is an objective of the claimed invention to provide compositions and methods for the treatment of diseases currently treated with chemotherapeutic agents including cancers malignancies and tumors.

A further object of the invention is to provide compositions and methods for inhibiting LSD1 activity particularly in cancer cells malignancies and tumors.

A further object of the invention is to provide methods and compositions to increase the antioxidant capacity of normal cells.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following specification taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In an aspect of the invention the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of hydroxytyrosol HT and HT containing formulations in cancer cells compared normal PBMC cells has been demonstrated. Hydroxytyrosol containing formulations or HT containing formulations as used herein encompasses any formulation or composition that includes hydroxytyrosol including but not limited to hydroxytyrosol alone hydroxytyrosol in combination with oleuropein and Formulations 1 2 and 3 Table 9 undiluted or at any dilution where an effective amount of hydroxytyrosol is present. The results further demonstrate applications of use treatment suppression and or amelioration of various conditions and diseases including any of those currently treated with chemotoxic compounds such as for example cancers. In an additional aspect the ability of hydroxytyrosol to induce double stranded breaks in DNA in malignant cells but not normal cells is demonstrated. The results confirm the specificity of potential treatments using hydroxytyrosol in particular the specificity of treatment regimens using hydroxytyrosol in combination with chemotherapeutic agents. Genome wide mRNA sequencing has been employed to demonstrate molecular mechanisms accounting for the biological effects of hydroxytyrosol disclosed herein according to the invention. In an additional aspect of the invention the combinatorial effects of hydroxytyrosol and the widely used chemotherapeutic doxorubicin in K562 cells has been demonstrated.

In yet another aspect of the invention the targeting of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 for the treatment of cancer cells is provided. In a preferred embodiment LSD1 is targeted by contacting particular residues in the LSD1 protein in particular the tryptophan residue at position 807 Trp807 the phenylalanine at position 560 Phe560 and or the histidine at position 812 His812 . In a more preferred embodiment LSD1 activity is inhibited by treatment with hydroxytyrosol or a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol including as referred to herein this application without limitation hydroxytyrosol derivatives substituted hydroxytyrosol compounds and or hydroxytyrosol prodrugs . In another embodiment LSD1 expression in cancer cells is downregulated by treatment with hydroxytyrosol or a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol. In another embodiment hydroxytyrosol is provided to a person in order to prevent or treat the growth development or metastasis of cancer cells.

An aspect of the invention encompasses a pharmaceutical composition for treatment suppression and or amelioration of a condition or disease currently treated with chemotoxic compounds wherein said composition comprises hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method of treating a condition of disease currently treated with chemotoxic compounds comprising administering to an individual in need thereof a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for detecting cancer or pre cancer cells in an individual comprising administering to an individual in need thereof a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite to a particular site of said individual followed by detection of genetic and epigenetic effects to detect cancerous or pre cancerous cells.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a pharmaceutical composition for treating cancers comprising the hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein of claim a chemotherapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method of inhibiting LSD1 in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method of inhibiting LSD1 in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising a compound that interacts with LSD1 at either the flavin group of LSD1 or close to the adenosine group of LSD1.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method of detecting an LSD1 expressing cancer in an individual comprising contacting a sample from said individual with or administering to said individual directly a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite followed by detection of LSD1 inhibition.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for increasing lysine methylation of a histone polypeptide in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for increasing or decreasing gene expression in a cell comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for inducing cell death in a comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for improving cell viability comprising contacting said cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for treating or preventing chemotherapy induced dysfunction in an individual or cell comprising contacting said individual or cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for treating or preventing high glucose induced dysfunction in an individual or cell comprising contacting said individual or cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for treating or preventing oxidative stress in an individual or cell comprising contacting said individual or cell with a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

Another aspect of the invention encompasses a method for inducing or enhancing angiogenesis comprising administering a composition comprising hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived and or substituted compound and or a hydroxytyrosol metabolite.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals represent like parts throughout the several views. Reference to various embodiments does not limit the scope of the invention. Figures represented herein are not limitations to the various embodiments according to the invention and are presented for exemplary illustration of the invention.

The embodiments of this invention are not limited to particular compositions and methods of use thereof which can vary and are understood by skilled artisans. It is further to be understood that all terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting in any manner or scope. For example as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the can include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates otherwise. Further all units prefixes and symbols may be denoted in its SI accepted form. Numeric ranges recited within the specification are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include each integer within the defined range.

So that the present invention may be more readily understood certain terms are first defined. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which embodiments of the invention pertain. Many methods and materials similar modified or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice of the embodiments of the present invention without undue experimentation the preferred materials and methods are described herein. In describing and claiming the embodiments of the present invention the following terminology will be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.

The term about as used herein refers to variation in the numerical quantity that can occur for example through typical measuring and liquid handling procedures used for making concentrates or use solutions in the real world through inadvertent error in these procedures through differences in the manufacture source or purity of the ingredients used to make the compositions or carry out the methods and the like. The term about also encompasses amounts that differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a composition resulting from a particular initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the term about the claims include equivalents to the quantities.

In the present invention an effective amount or therapeutically effective amount of a compound or of a composition of the present invention is that amount of such compound and or composition that is sufficient to affect beneficial or desired results as described herein. In terms of treatment of a mammal e.g. a human patient an effective amount is an amount sufficient to at least slow the progression or spread of disease or render the disease susceptible to therapeutics or remediation.

The term cancers as used herein refers to the commonly understood spectrum of diseases including but not limited to solid tumors such as cancers of the breast respiratory tract brain reproductive organs digestive tract urinary tract eye liver skin head and neck thyroid parathyroid and their distant metastases and also includes lymphomas sarcomas and leukemias. Examples of breast cancer include but are not limited to invasive ductal carcinoma invasive lobular carcinoma ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma in situ. Examples of cancers of the respiratory tract include but are not limited to small cell and non small cell lung carcinoma as well as bronchial adenoma and pleuropulmonary blastoma. Examples of brain cancers include but are not limited to brain stem and hypophthalmic glioma cerebellar and cerebral astrocytoma medulloblastoma ependymoma as well as neuroectodermal and pineal tumor. Tumors of the male reproductive organs include but are not limited to prostate and testicular cancer. Tumors of the female reproductive organs include but are not limited to endometrial cervical ovarian vaginal and vulvar cancer as well as sarcoma of the uterus. Tumors of the digestive tract include but are not limited to anal colon colorectal esophageal gallbladder gastric pancreatic rectal small intestine and salivary gland cancers. Tumors of the urinary tract include but are not limited to bladder penile kidney renal pelvis ureter and urethral cancers. Eye cancers include but are not limited to intraocular melanoma and retinoblastoma. Examples of liver cancers include but are not limited to hepatocellular carcinoma liver cell carcinomas with or without fibrolamellar variant cholangiocarcinoma intrahepatic bile duct carcinoma and mixed hepatocellular cholangiocarcinoma. Skin cancers include but are not limited to squamous cell carcinoma Kaposi s sarcoma malignant melanoma Merkel cell skin cancer and non melanoma skin cancer. Head and neck cancers include but are not limited to laryngeal hypopharyngeal nasopharyngeal oropharyngeal cancer and lip and oral cavity cancer. Lymphomas include but are not limited to AIDS related lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma cutaneous T cell lymphoma Hodgkin s disease and lymphoma of the central nervous system. Sarcomas include but are not limited to sarcoma of the soft tissue fibrosarcoma osteosarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma lymphosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma. Leukemias include but are not limited to acute myeloid leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia and hairy cell leukemia. Cancers also specifically include but are not limited to chronic myeloid leukemia CML acute myeloid leukemia AML cutaneous T cell lymphoma CTCL cutaneous T cell lymphoma CTCL acute T lymphoblast leukemia ALL MDR acute T lymphoblast leukemia MDR ALL large B lymphocyte non Hodgkin s lymphoma leukemic monocyte lymphoma epidermal squamous carcinoma epithelial lung adenocarcinoma liver hepatocellular carcinoma colorectal carcinoma breast adenocarcinoma brain glioblastoma prostate adenocarcinoma gastric carcinoma and other cancerous tissues. Cancers further include all forms of cancer expressing lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 . These disorders have been characterized in humans but also exist with a similar etiology in other mammals and can be treated by administering the methods and compositions of the present invention.

The term weight percent wt percent by weight by weight and variations thereof as used herein refer to the concentration of a substance as the weight of that substance divided by the total weight of the composition and multiplied by 100. It is understood that as used here percent and the like are intended to be synonymous with weight percent wt etc.

As one skilled in the art shall appreciate there are two distinct mechanisms for cell death. Apoptosis refers to normal or programmed cell death which encompasses the physiological process by which cells are routinely eliminated giving balance to the proliferation of new cells. During apoptosis the outer membrane of the cell forms bubbles known as blebs. The content of the cells becomes incased in the blebs. The blebs separate from the cell and are digested by nearby cells or macrophages. This orderly process greatly reduces toxicity to surrounding cells.

 Necrosis refers to a distinct form of cell death that is not a programmed event and is known as accidental death. This pathological process occurs when cells are exposed to extreme stress chemical insult and resultant free radical damage. The early stages of necrosis involve a swelling of the cell called oncosis. During oncosis the cell and its organelles begin to swell due to an exchange in the cell s potassium to sodium ratios. Necrosis after the oncosis stage is an explosive event where the cells contents stream directly into the surrounding cells environment causing damage and an immune response. Controlling necrosis during the early oncosis stage is important. Up to this point necrosis is a reversible event. The morphology of cells dying by necrosis centers on changes in the cell s permeability. Hengartner M O The biochemistry of apoptosis. Nature 407 770 776 2000 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Osmotic changes take place during an exchange of cytosol potassium and extracellular sodium. Early stage necrosis known as oncosis is characterized by the dilation or swelling of the cell and its organelles due to this exchange. Cell survival of this non programmed event is dependent upon repairing the cell s membrane and stopping the flow of sodium ions into the cells interior. Repair of the cell s membrane and improvement in the cell s environment to more homeostatic conditions are paramount to survival

 Quiescence refers to the normal part of the cell cycle also referred to as G that is the counterpart to proliferation and involves a myriad of molecular events that occur and trigger the progression to the pre replicative G phase. Cosenza S C Owen T A Soprano D R Soprano K J Evidence That the Time of Entry into S is Determined by Events Occurring in Early G. J Biological Chem 263 12751 12758 1988. The Gphase represents not just the absence of signals for mitosis but an active repression of the genes needed for mitosis. This is an important distinction since cancer cells cannot enter Gand as a consequence become immortal.

The methods and compositions of the present invention may comprise consist essentially of or consist of the components and ingredients of the present invention as well as other ingredients described herein. As used herein consisting essentially of means that the methods and compositions may include additional steps components or ingredients but only if the additional steps components or ingredients do not materially alter the basic and novel characteristics of the claimed methods and compositions.

In an aspect of the invention the administration of hydroxytyrosol containing formulations results in selective cell damage including for example cell death apoptosis and or DNA double strand breaks in cells in need of treatment according to the invention. The term apoptosis often is used interchangeably with programmed cell death. According to the invention the selective effects on cells results in no damage to normal cells. In an aspect the hydroxytyrosol containing formulations are employed as a pre treatment for the chemotherapeutic agents. The compositions according to the invention provide a biochemical mechanism by which cellular characteristics are regulated. The compositions and or treatment regimens according to the invention comprise hydroxytyrosol containing formulations and may also include a chemotherapeutic agent.

Hydroxytyrosol containing formulations as used herein encompasses any formulation or composition that includes hydroxytyrosol including but not limited to hydroxytyrosol alone hydroxytyrosol in combination with oleuropein and Formulations 1 2 and 3 Table 9 undiluted or at any dilution where an effective amount of hydroxytyrosol is present. Additional components may be added to hydroxytyrosol containing formulations such as a chemotherapeutic agent carrier diluent and or other pharmaceutically acceptable delivery agents or the like.

In one aspect hydroxytyrosol compositions include any hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein. Suitable hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein include for example hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived compound a hydroxytyrosol substituted compound a hydroxytyrosol metabolite originating from a prodrug and combinations of the same.

The compositions according to the invention employ hydroxytyrosol. Hydroxytyrosol HT CAS Registry number 10597 60 1 is also known as 3 hydroxytyrosol 3 4 dihydroxyphenyl ethanol DOPET or 4 2 hydroxyethyl 1 2 benzenediol. Hydroxytyrosol has the Formula I set out below 

For use in the hydroxytyrosol containing formulations and other compositions of the present invention hydroxytyrosol may be derived from natural sources or prepared by chemical synthesis. For example the hydroxytyrosol may be obtained as an extract of or otherwise derived from olive leaves olive fruits and vegetation water of olive oil production. When obtained as an extract for example of olive leaves the extract will contain hydroxytyrosol tyrosol oleuropein and other polyphenols. In one preferred embodiment the hydroxytyrosol is obtained as an olive leaf extract of . Further description regarding the isolation and purification of hydroxytyrosol from olive by products is described by Fernandez Bolanos et al. Cur. Org. Chem. 12 442 463 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary synthesis procedures for the chemical and or enzymatic synthesis of hydroxytyrosol are suitable for use according the present invention. Exemplary synthesis procedures may include for example synthesis from tyrosol synthesis from 3 4 dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and its methyl ester and or synthesis from oleuropein. Such synthesis procedures are suitable for synthesis of hydroxytyrosol substituted hydroxytyrosol and or hydroxytyrosol derivatives according to the invention. In further embodiments hydroxytyrosol derivatives such as hydroxytyrosol acyl derivatives can be synthesized by chemical and or chemoenzymatic methods. Further description regarding exemplary synthesis of hydroxytyrosol is described by Fernandez Bolanos et al. Cur. Org. Chem. 12 442 463 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In addition to isolated purified derived and or synthesized hydroxytyrosol compositions according to a further embodiment a hydroxytyrosol derivative and or substituted hydroxytyrosol include for example hydroxytyrosol acyl derivatives according to the following Formula II 

In a further embodiment compounds derived from hydroxytyrosol hydroxytyrosol derivatives hydroxytyrosol substituted compound metabolites of hydroxytyrosol its derivatives and or substituted compounds one or more mixtures thereof or one or more combinations thereof are employed for hydroxytyrosol compositions.

In a further embodiment hydroxytyrosol derivative and or substituted hydroxytyrosol include for example hydroxytyrosol acyl derivatives substitute d hydroxyl groups and or substituted compositions are employed and have the following general Formula III 

wherein R1 R2 and R3 provide a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate prodrug and or isomer of hydroxytyrosol that has inhibitory efficacy against the LSD1 protein interacts with Trp807 Phe560 and or His812 of LSD1 improves cell viability in normal non cancer cells abrogates or prevents chemotherapy induced dysfunction abrogates or prevents high glucose induced dysfunction increases antioxidant activity and or induces or enhances angiogenesis.

As used herein the term analog refers to a chemical compound that is structurally similar to another but differs slightly in composition as in the replacement of one atom by an atom of a different element or in the presence of a particular functional group or the replacement of one functional group by another functional group . Thus an analog is a compound that is similar or comparable in function and appearance but not in structure or origin to the reference compound.

As defined herein the term derivative refers to compounds that have a common core structure and are substituted with various groups as described herein. For example all of the compounds represented by Formula III are hydroxytyrosol derivative and or substituted hydroxytyrosol derivatives and have Formula III as a common core.

The term prodrug as understood by one skilled in the art refers to compounds or derivatives that are converted in vivo to the compounds of the invention as a result of spontaneous chemical reaction s enzyme catalyzed chemical reaction s and or metabolic chemical reaction s . Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to derivatives and metabolites of the compounds of the formula set forth according to the present invention. These may include for example biohydrolyzable moieties such as biohydrolyzable amides biohydrolyzable esters biohydrolyzable carbamates biohydrolyzable carbonates biohydrolyzable ureides and biohydrolyzable phosphate analogues. Further prodrugs include compounds that can be oxidized reduced aminated deaminated esterified deesterified alkylated dealkylated acylated deacylated phosphorylated dephosphorylated or other functional group change or conversion involving forming or breaking chemical bonds on the prodrug by either enzymatic action or by general acid or base solvolysis. Prodrugs can be prepared according to methods known to one skilled in the art such as those described by Burger Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Discovery 6th ed. Donald J. Abraham ed. 2001 Wiley and Design and Applications of Prodrugs H. Bundgaard ed. 1985 Harwood Academic Publishers . Further structurally diverse prodrugs of hydroxytyrosol have been described by Fernandez Bolanos J G Lopez O Fernandez Bolanos J Rodriguez Gutierrez G. Hydroxytyrosol and derivatives isolation synthesis and biological properties. Cur. Org. Chem. 12 442 463 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Without limiting the scope of the invention any compound that is a prodrug of a compound of the formulas according to the invention are included within the scope of the invention.

In a still further embodiment hydroxytyrosol derivative and or substituted hydroxytyrosol include for example hydroxytyrosol acyl derivatives substituted hydroxyl groups and or substituted compositions are employed and have the following general structure 

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing no unsaturation and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Alkyl groups may include straight chain alkyl groups e.g. methyl ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl decyl etc. cyclic alkyl groups or cycloalkyl or alicyclic or carbocyclic groups e.g. cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl etc. branched chain alkyl groups e.g. isopropyl tert butyl sec butyl isobutyl etc. and alkyl substituted alkyl groups e.g. alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups . Unless otherwise specified the term alkyl includes both unsubstituted alkyls and substituted alkyls. As used herein the term substituted alkyls refers to alkyl groups having substituents replacing one or more hydrogens on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents may include for example alkenyl alkynyl halogeno hydroxyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylaminocarbonyl dialkylaminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates alkylsulfinyl sulfonates sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclic alkylaryl or aromatic including hetero aromatic groups.

In some embodiments substituted alkyls can include a heterocyclic group. As used herein the term heterocyclic group includes closed ring structures analogous to carbocyclic groups in which one or more of the carbon atoms in the ring is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen sulfur or oxygen. Heterocyclic groups may be saturated or unsaturated. Exemplary heterocyclic groups include but are not limited to aziridine ethylene oxide epoxides oxiranes thiirane episulfides dioxirane azetidine oxetane thietane dioxetane dithietane dithiete azolidine pyrrolidine pyrroline oxolane dihydrofuran and furan.

Alkyl groups preferably have from 1 to about 22 carbon atoms. Methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl and butyl including n butyl tert butyl sec butyl and iso butyl are particularly preferred alkyl groups. As used herein the term alkyl unless otherwise stated refers to both cyclic and noncyclic groups although cyclic groups will comprise at least three carbon ring members such as cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl. Alkyl radicals may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents such as an aryl group like in benzyl or phenethyl.

 Alkenyl and Alkynyl refer to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one unsaturation one carbon carbon double or triple bond respectively and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Alkenyl and alkynyl groups preferably have from 2 to about 22 carbon atoms. The terms alkenyl and alkynyl as used herein refer to both cyclic and noncyclic groups although cyclic groups will comprise at least three carbon ring members. Alkenyl and alkenyl radicals may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents.

 Aryl refers to a radical derived from an aromatic hydrocarbon by removal of a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom. Suitable aryl groups in the present invention include single and multiple ring compounds including multiple ring compounds that contain separate and or fused aryl groups. Typical aryl groups contain from 1 to 3 separated and or fused rings and from 6 to about 22 carbon ring atoms. Aryl radicals may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents. Specially preferred aryl groups include substituted or unsubstituted phenyl substituted or unsubstituted naphthyl substituted or unsubstituted biphenyl substituted or unsubstituted phenanthryl and substituted or unsubstituted anthryl.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a cyclic radical having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements. Suitable heterocyclyl radicals include heteroaromatic and heteroalicyclic groups containing from 1 to 3 separated and or fused rings and from 5 to about 18 ring atoms. Preferably heteroaromatic and heteroalicyclic groups contain from 5 to about 10 ring atoms. Heterocycles are described in Katritzky Alan R. Rees C. W. and Scriven E. Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry 1996 Pergamon Press Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28. Suitable heteroaromatic groups in the compounds of the present invention contain one two or three heteroatoms selected from N O or S atoms and include e.g. coumarinyl including 8 coumarinyl quinolyl including 8 quinolyl isoquinolyl pyridyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyrimidinyl furyl pyrrolyl thienyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl isoxazolyl oxazolyl imidazolyl indolyl isoindolyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl pyridazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl benzothienyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Suitable heteroalicyclic groups in the compounds of the present invention contain one two or three heteroatoms selected from N O or S atoms and include e.g. pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl dihydrofuryl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl pyrazolidinyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyclo 3.1.0 hexyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptyl 3H indolyl and quinolizinyl. Heterocylic radicals may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents.

In each of the aforementioned embodiments the components of the composition of the present invention may optionally be present in the form of an ester or a physiologically and or pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Exemplary esters include the mono di and triesters of hydroxytyrosol with un saturated carbonic acids R COON whereby R is an alkyl or alkenyl chain having 2 to 22 carbon atoms. Exemplary pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic salts and organic salts. Suitable non organic salts include inorganic and organic acids such as acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethenesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic malic maleic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric acid p toluenesulfonic and other pharmaceutically acceptable salts as provided in Stahl and Wermuth Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use 1st Ed Wiley VCH 374 2002 . Thus for example the hydroxytyrosol may be provided as hydroxytyrosol acetate which releases hydroxytyrosol in the stomach or intestine.

In an aspect the compositions according to the invention deliver at least about 1 M hydroxytyrosol at least about 5 M hydroxytyrosol at least about 10 M hydroxytyrosol at least about 20 M hydroxytyrosol at least about 50 M hydroxytyrosol at least about 100 M hydroxytyrosol or greater. In addition without being limited according to the invention all ranges recited are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include each integer within the defined range. In general larger doses tend to produce greater effects with the preferred dosage also depending at least in part upon weight metabolism individual body chemistry type of cancer or other condition being treated and the like.

In an embodiment the dose of hydroxytyrosol administered to a person is about 0.01 to about 1000 micrograms per kilogram of body weight. In addition without being limited according to the invention all ranges recited are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include each integer within the defined range. In a further aspect the hydroxytyrosol is present at a level such that an effective amount for the induction of cell death apoptosis and or DNA double strand breakage in malignant cells results.

Depending upon the route of administration greater doses of hydroxytyrosol may be administered. For example significantly lesser amounts of hydroxytyrosol may be absorbed when the route of administration is oral as compared to parenteral or other forms of systemic administration. For oral delivery therefore the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol administered orally may be about 0.01 micrograms to about 1000 micrograms per kilogram of body weight. By way of further example in one embodiment the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol administered orally to a person is about 1 to about 100 micrograms per kilogram of body weight. By way of further example in one embodiment the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol administered orally to a person is about 5 to about 50 micrograms per kilogram of body weight. By way of further example in one embodiment the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol administered orally to a person is about 10 micrograms to about 50 micrograms per kilogram of body weight.

For parenteral delivery the daily dose may be from about 0.01 to about 100 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per day twice a day or more than twice a day. In one embodiment the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol parenterally administered to a person is about 0.1 to about 50 micrograms per kilogram of body weight per day. In another such embodiment the daily dose of hydroxytyrosol parenterally administered to a person is about 0.1 to about 10 microgram per kilogram of body weight.

Regardless of the route of administration of the hydroxytyrosol the compositions may be administered in a single dose or multiple doses to achieve a target daily dose. For example for certain embodiments the hydroxytyrosol is provided in a formulation that will provide a single daily dose. Alternatively for such embodiments the hydroxytyrosol is provided in a formulation that will provide in two or more doses over the course of a day.

As one skilled in the art appreciates greater amounts of hydroxytyrosol may be included in the dosage unit form when the intended route of administration is oral. For example typical dosage forms for oral administration include tablets pills capsules gelcaps caplets and the like. A single dose therefore may comprise a single tablet pill capsule gelcap caplet or the like or two or more tablets pills capsules gelcaps caplets and the like. In general dosage forms for oral administration may contain 0.01 to 100 milligrams of hydroxytyrosol. For example in one embodiment the dosage unit form contains 1 to 50 milligrams hydroxytyrosol.

The route of administration may affect the rate and extent of absorption of hydroxytyrosol. Taking this into account i.e. taking into account the fraction of an administered dose that is not absorbed or for whatever reason is not systemically bioavailable to the subject it is generally preferred that the administered dose provide the subject with at least about 100 but less than about 10 000 preferably less than about 6 000 TE of systemically bioavailable hydroxytyrosol per day. In general it is preferred that the administered dose provide the subject with at least about 250 TE of systemically bioavailable hydroxytyrosol per day. In certain embodiments it is preferred that the administered dose provide the subject with at least about 500 at least about 750 at least about 1 000 or at least about 5 000 TE of systemically bioavailable hydroxytyrosol per day.

The compositions according to the invention employ a chemotherapeutic agent. Chemotherapeutics may also be referred to as chemotoxic agents chemotherapy and the like which are customarily employed to diminish cell proliferation and or to induce cell apoptosis as one skilled in the art appreciates. Additional cancer therapies may also be employed in combination with the hydroxytyrosol according to the invention including for example biotherapeutic agents radiopharmaceuticals and the like.

As one skilled in the art appreciates cancer chemotherapeutic agents are used for their lethal action to cancer cells. Unfortunately few such drugs differentiate between a cancer cell and other proliferating cells. Chemotherapy generally requires use of several agents concurrently or in planned sequence. Combining more than one agent in a chemotherapeutic treatment protocol allows for 1 the largest possible dose of drugs 2 drugs that work by different mechanisms 3 drugs having different toxicities and 4 the reduced development of resistance. Chemotherapeutic agents mainly affect cells that are undergoing division or DNA synthesis thus slow growing malignant cells such as lung cancer or colorectal cancer are often unresponsive. Furthermore most chemotherapeutic agents have a narrow therapeutic index. Common adverse effects of chemotherapy include vomiting stomatitis and alopecia. Toxicity of the chemotherapeutic agents is often the result of their effect on rapidly proliferating cells which are vulnerable to the toxic effects of the agents such as bone marrow or from cells harbored from detection immunosuppression gastrointestinal tract mucosal ulceration skin and hair dermatitis and alopecia .

Many potent cytotoxic agents act at specific phases of the cell cycle cell cycle dependent and have activity only against cells in the process of division thus acting specifically on processes such as DNA synthesis transcription or mitotic spindle function. Other agents are cell cycle independent. Susceptibility to cytotoxic treatment therefore may vary at different stages of the cell life cycle with only those cells in a specific phase of the cell cycle being killed. Because of this cell cycle specificity treatment with cytotoxic agents needs to be prolonged or repeated in order to allow cells to enter the sensitive phase. Non cell cycle specific agents may act at any stage of the cell cycle however the cytotoxic effects are still dependent on cell proliferation. Cytotoxic agents thus kill a fixed fraction of tumor cells the fraction being proportionate to the dose of the drug treatment.

Exemplary chemotherapeutic agents suitable for use in compositions and or combinational therapies according to the invention include anthracyclines such as doxorubicin alkylating agents nitrosoureas antimetabolites such as 5 FU platins antitumor antibiotics such as dactinomycin daunorubicin doxorubicin Adriamycin idarubicin and mitoxantrone miotic inhibitors alkylating agents mitotic inhibitors steroids and natural hormones including for example corticosteroid hormones sex hormones immunotherapy or others such as L asparaginase and tretinoin. These and other specific examples of chemotherapeutic agents are well known to those of skill in the art and are included within the scope of the invention.

The components of the treatment compositions according to the invention can further be combined with various functional components suitable for use treating the particular cancer or other condition. Additional functional ingredient components may include those that improve the health and or viability of a patient and or the cells of a patient.

In other embodiments additional functional ingredients may be included in the compositions. The functional ingredients provide desired properties and functionalities to the compositions. For the purpose of this application the term functional ingredient includes a material that when combined with the hydroxytyrosol provides a beneficial property in a particular use or treatment. Some particular examples of functional materials are discussed in more detail below although the particular materials discussed are given by way of example only and that a broad variety of other functional ingredients may be used.

In some embodiments the compositions may include additional amino acids and other functional ingredients may include for example oleuropein N acetyl cysteine antioxidants vitamins and or minerals such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. US 2011 0034519 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments suitable antioxidants include ascorbic acid vitamin C and its salts ascorbyl esters of fatty acids ascorbic acid derivatives e.g. magnesium ascorbyl phosphate sodium ascrobyl phosphate and ascorbyl sorbate EGCG oleuropein tocopherol vitamin E tocopherol sorbate tocopherol acetate other esters of tocopherol tyrosol butylated hydroxy benzoic acids and their salts gallic acid and its alkyl esters such as propyl gallate uric acid and its salts and alkyl esters sorbic acid and its salts lipoic acid amines e.g. N N diethylhydroxylamine and amino guanidine sulfhydryl compounds e.g. glutathione dihydroxy fumaric acid and it salts glycine pidolate arginine pilolate nordihydroguaiaretic acid bioflavinoids curcumin lysine methionine proline superoxide dismutase resveratrol and other polyphenols. In other embodiment one or more of cystine cystine derivatives vitamin C tannic acid vitamin E vitamin E derivatives catechin niacin unsaturated fatty acids vitamin P vitamin Q glutathione isoflavones guava selenium oleuropein or other polyphenol s is further included. In a still further embodiment one or more of N acetyl cysteine glycine L taurine L proline niacinamide vitamin B3 pyridoxine vitamin B6 and methylsulfonylmethane is further included.

Without being limited according to various aspects of the invention in some aspects there are benefits to providing certain combined ratios of such functional ingredients for providing additional benefits. In one embodiment compositions contain N acetyl cysteine and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of N acetyl cysteine to hydroxytyrosol to between 1 1 and 50 1 preferably between 10 1 and 30 1 preferably between 20 1 and 25 1 respectively. In one embodiment compositions contain glycine and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of glycine to hydroxytyrosol to between 1 1 and 50 1 preferably between 30 1 and 40 1 preferably 35 1 respectively. In another embodiment compositions contain L taurine and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of L taurine to hydroxytyrosol is between 1 1 and 50 1 preferably between 20 1 and 50 1 preferably between 30 1 and 40 1 and preferably about 35 1 respectively. In another embodiment compositions contain L proline and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of L proline to hydroxytyrosol is between 1 1 and 20 1 preferably between 1 1 and 10 1 preferably between 1 1 and 5 1 respectively. In yet a further embodiment the compositions contain methylsulfonylmethane and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of methylsulfonylmethane to hydroxytyrosol is between 1 1 and 30 1 preferably between 5 1 and 25 1 preferably between 10 1 and 20 1 respectively. In a still further embodiment compositions contain niacinamide and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of niacinamide to hydroxytyrosol to between 1 1 and 10 1 respectively. In one embodiment the composition contains niacinamide and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of niacinamide to hydroxytyrosol is between 1 1 and 5 1 preferably between 1 1 and 2 1 respectively. In a still further embodiment the composition contains pyridoxine and hydroxytyrosol and the weight ratio of pyridoxine to hydroxytyrosol is between 1 1 and 10 1 preferably between 1 1 and 5 1 preferably between 1 1 and 2 1 respectively.

Compositions containing hydroxytyrosol may be formulated in any conventional manner. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. Suitable routes of administration include but are not limited to oral parenteral e.g. intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous rectal subcutaneous intramuscular intraorbital intracapsular intraspinal intraperitoneal or intrasternal topical nasal transdermal intraocular intravesical intrathecal enteral pulmonary intralymphatic intracavital vaginal transurethral intradermal aural intramammary buccal orthotopic intratracheal intralesional percutaneous endoscopical transmucosal sublingual and intestinal administration.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for use in the compositions of the present invention are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are selected based upon a number of factors hydroxytyrosol concentration and intended bioavailability the disease disorder or condition being treated with the composition the subject his or her age size and general condition and the route of administration. Suitable carriers are readily determined by one of ordinary skill in the art see for example J. G. Nairn in Remington s Pharmaceutical Science A. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1985 pp. 1492 1517 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference .

In general oral routes of administration are preferred. For oral administration the hydroxytyrosol containing compositions are preferably formulated as tablets dispersible powders pills capsules gelcaps caplets gels liposomes granules solutions suspensions emulsions syrups elixirs troches dragees lozenges or any other dosage form which can be administered orally. Techniques and compositions for making oral dosage forms useful in the present invention are described in the following references 7 Modern Pharmaceutics Chapters 9 and 10 Banker Rhodes Editors 1979 Lieberman et al. Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms Tablets 1981 and Ansel Introduction to Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms 2nd Edition 1976 .

The hydroxytyrosol containing compositions of the present invention may also be preferably formulated for parenteral administration e.g. formulated for injection via intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous rectal subcutaneous intramuscular intraorbital intracapsular intraspinal intraperitoneal or intrasternal routes. The compositions of the invention for parenteral administration comprise an effective amount of hydroxytyrosol in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration include solutions suspensions dispersions emulsions or any other dosage form which can be administered parenterally. Techniques and compositions for making parenteral dosage forms are known in the art.

Suitable carriers used in formulating liquid dosage forms for oral or parenteral administration include nonaqueous pharmaceutically acceptable polar solvents such as oils alcohols amides esters ethers ketones hydrocarbons and mixtures thereof as well as water saline solutions dextrose solutions e.g. DW5 electrolyte solutions or any other aqueous pharmaceutically acceptable liquid.

Suitable nonaqueous pharmaceutically acceptable polar solvents include but are not limited to alcohols e.g. .alpha. glycerol formal .beta. glycerol formal 1 3 butyleneglycol aliphatic or aromatic alcohols having 2 30 carbon atoms such as methanol ethanol propanol isopropanol butanol t butanol hexanol octanol amylene hydrate benzyl alcohol glycerin glycerol glycol hexylene glycol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol lauryl alcohol cetyl alcohol or stearyl alcohol fatty acid esters of fatty alcohols such as polyalkylene glycols e.g. polypropylene glycol polyethylene glycol sorbitan sucrose and cholesterol amides e.g. dimethylacetamide DMA benzyl benzoate DMA dimethylformamide N .beta. hydroxyethyl lactamide N N dimethylacetamide amides 2 pyrrolidinone 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone or polyvinylpyrrolidone esters e.g. 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone 2 pyrrolidinone acetate esters such as monoacetin diacetin and triacetin aliphatic or aromatic esters such as ethyl caprylate or octanoate alkyl oleate benzyl benzoate benzyl acetate dimethylsulfoxide DMSO esters of glycerin such as mono di or tri glyceryl citrates or tartrates ethyl benzoate ethyl acetate ethyl carbonate ethyl lactate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters of sorbitan fatty acid derived PEG esters glyceryl monostearate glyceride esters such as mono di or tri glycerides fatty acid esters such as isopropyl myristrate fatty acid derived PEG esters such as PEG hydroxyoleate and PEG hydroxystearate N methylpyrrolidinone pluronic 60 polyoxyethylene sorbitol oleic polyesters such as poly ethoxylated 30 60 sorbitol poly oleate 2 4 poly oxyethylene 15 20 monooleate poly oxyethylene 15 20 mono 12 hydroxystearate and poly oxyethylene 15 20 mono ricinoleate polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate polyoxyethylene sorbitan monopalmitate polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate polyoxyethylene sorbitan monostearate and Polysorbate 20 40 60 or 80 from ICI Americas Wilmington Del. polyvinylpyrrolidone alkyleneoxy modified fatty acid esters such as polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil and polyoxyethylated castor oils e.g. Cremophor EL solution or Cremophor RH 40 solution saccharide fatty acid esters i.e. the condensation product of a monosaccharide e.g. pentoses such as ribose ribulose arabinose xylose lyxose and xylulose hexoses such as glucose fructose galactose mannose and sorbose trioses tetroses heptoses and octoses disaccharide e.g. sucrose maltose lactose and trehalose or oligosaccharide or mixture thereof with a C4 C22 fatty acid s e.g. saturated fatty acids such as caprylic acid capric acid lauric acid myristic acid palmitic acid and stearic acid and unsaturated fatty acids such as palmitoleic acid oleic acid elaidic acid erucic acid and linoleic acid or steroidal esters alkyl aryl or cyclic ethers having 2 30 carbon atoms e.g. diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dimethyl isosorbide diethylene glycol monoethyl ether glycofurol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycol ether ketones having 3 30 carbon atoms e.g. acetone methyl ethyl ketone methyl isobutyl ketone aliphatic cycloaliphatic or aromatic hydrocarbons having 4 30 carbon atoms e.g. benzene cyclohexane dichloromethane dioxolanes hexane n decane n dodecane n hexane sulfolane tetramethylenesulfon tetramethylenesulfoxide toluene dimethylsulfoxide DMSO or tetramethylenesulfoxide oils of mineral vegetable animal essential or synthetic origin e.g. mineral oils such as aliphatic or wax based hydrocarbons aromatic hydrocarbons mixed aliphatic and aromatic based hydrocarbons and refined paraffin oil vegetable oils such as linseed tung safflower soybean castor cottonseed groundnut rapeseed coconut palm olive corn corn germ sesame persic and peanut oil and glycerides such as mono di or triglycerides animal oils such as fish marine sperm cod liver haliver squalene squalane and shark liver oil oleic oils and polyoxyethylated castor oil alkyl or aryl halides having 1 30 carbon atoms and optionally more than one halogen substituent methylene chloride monoethanolamine petroleum benzin trolamine omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids e.g. alpha linolenic acid eicosapentaenoic acid docosapentaenoic acid or docosahexaenoic acid polyglycol ester of 12 hydroxystearic acid and polyethylene glycol Solutol HS 15 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany polyoxyethylene glycerol sodium laurate sodium oleate or sorbitan monooleate.

The hydroxytyrosol containing compositions and or regimens of the present invention may be used in methods for the treatment of subjects having a variety of diseases. In some embodiments the hydroxytyrosol containing compositions and or regimens of the present invention may be used for the treatment of cancers for example neoplasias chronic leukemias non Hodgkin s lymphoma Hodgkin s disease multiple myeloma chronic myeloid leukemia CML acute myeloid leukemia AML and other cancerous tissues. In some embodiments the hydroxytyrosol containing compositions and or regimens of the present invention may be used for the treatment of any cancer expressing lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 .

In an embodiment the treatment may be performed by administration of the hydroxytyrosol containing compositions and or regimens to the subject in need thereof or by administration directly to the site of the tumor or other cancer cells. The treatment may be performed in conjunction with administration of a chemotherapeutic agent e.g. a treatment regimen either simultaneously in the same composition or in separate compositions or sequentially. The treatment may be performed by administration of components in any order and in any combination. The treatment may also be performed using more than one chemotherapeutic agent or other type of treatment. Further the treatment may be performed by providing multiple administrations of the compositions. One skilled in the art will ascertain these variations in treatment regimens employing the hydroxytyrosol compositions and or regimens disclosed herein.

As referred to in the methods of administering hydroxytyrosol compositions such compositions include any hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein. Suitable hydroxytyrosol based inhibitor of the LDS1 protein include for example hydroxytyrosol a hydroxytyrosol derived compound a hydroxytyrosol substituted compound a hydroxytyrosol metabolite originating from a prodrug and combinations of the same. A hydroxytyrosol containing formulation may further include other functional ingredients for example oleuropein N acetyl cysteine antioxidants vitamins minerals and or amino acids chemotherapeutic agent carrier diluent and or other pharmaceutically acceptable delivery agents or the like.

The methods of the invention may be further applicable to non cancerous condition which are treated with regimens employing chemotherapeutic agents such as for example hepatitis C or other viral infections ankylosing spondylitis multiple sclerosis Crohn s disease psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma.

The combination of hydroxytyrosol containing formulations and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent according to methods of the invention results in at least additive effects preferably synergistic effects. The combinational therapy according to the invention results in a greater reduction in cell number an increase in apoptosis and or other indicator of improved treatment for a regimen disclosed herein in comparison to either compound alone. In and additional aspect the combination of the hydroxytyrosol and a chemotherapeutic agent according to methods of the invention may allow for a reduction in toxicity of the treatment as a similar result may be achieved with a lower dose of the chemotherapeutic agent. This is important as many of these agents are highly toxic and should be used in as small dose as possible.

The compositions and or regimens of the present invention may also be used in methods for inducing cell death. The compositions and or regimens may be administered to a cell or tissue to promote or enhance the effects of an apoptotic or necrotic agent or other treatment or agents or treatments that arrest the cell cycle. Such compositions and or regimens may include but are not limited to ultraviolet radiation or other types of radiation staurosporine actinomycin rifampicin cyclin dependent kinase cdk inhibitors indirubin checkpoint kinase inhibitors DNA and RNA polymerase inhibitors DNA methyltransferase inhibitors exonuclease inhibitors histone acetylase and deacetylase inhibitors and nuclease inhibitors.

Such methods may be performed for example by administration of an apoptotic or necrotic agent or agents that arrest the cell cycle either simultaneously in the same composition or in separate compositions or sequentially. The treatment may also be performed using more than one agent or other type of treatment. Further the treatment may be performed by providing multiple administrations of the compositions to the cell or tissue.

Such methods may further be performed on individuals using the routes of administration and dosages discussed above. Further the treatment may be performed to provide hydroxytyrosol containing formulations at the desired dose systemically or to specific locations in the body. Further the treatment may be performed to provide hydroxytyrosol containing formulations in multiple administrations to the individual.

The compositions of the present invention may also be used in methods for the detection of pre cancer and or cancerous tissues cells in a patient. As disclosed according to the invention contacting cancer cells with compositions of hydroxytyrosol induces genetic and epigenetic effects in those cells which can be detected. Therefore an embodiment of this invention is the administration of the hydroxytyrosol compositions according to the various embodiments of the invention followed by detection of genetic and or epigenetic effects to detect cancerous or pre cancerous cells.

Such detection methods may be performed by administering the compositions according to the invention to a subject or by administration directly to a specific site of the subject. The methods may further include the collecting of cells tissue or other biological material from the patient. Such collection may be used for the determination of genetic and or epigenetic effects. The detection may be performed by a single administration or multiple administrations and may be done by collecting a single sample or by collecting multiple samples. The detection may be performed by collecting a sample from a patient and administering the compositions according to the invention to that isolated sample.

The compositions of the present invention may also be used to induce certain desired changes or effects in other cell types. As disclosed according to the invention and as shown in contacting epidermal or endothelial cells with compositions comprising consisting of and or consisting essentially of hydroxytyrosol improves migration response to high glucose induced dysfunction and response to doxorubicin induced damage. Further contacting endothelial cells with compositions of hydroxytyrosol improves tubule formation angiogenesis. Further contacting peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC with compositions of hydroxytyrosol improves their antioxidant capacity activity including in the presence of high glucose high glucose induced dysfunction and chemotherapeutic agents e.g. doxorubicin induced damage . Further still contacting peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC with compositions of hydroxytyrosol improves cell viability. These beneficial uses of hydroxytyrosol are further confirmed by mRNA sequence and micro array data summarized in and further summarized in Table 1.

Further still contacting muscle cells with compositions of hydroxytyrosol improves cell viability as shown in . This beneficial use of the compositions of the invention is even more pronounced in the presence of chemotherapeutic agents e.g. doxorubicin induced damage and oxidative stress.

Accordingly in one embodiment of the invention the compositions and methods are employed to achieve a protective effect for example to improve cell viability or to treat or prevent chemotherapy induced damage high glucose induced dysfunction and or oxidative stress in non cancer cells including for example epithelial cells endothelial cells muscle cells and PBMC.

The hydroxytyrosol containing formulations and other compositions of the present invention may also be used in methods to sensitize cancers for example cancer cells tumors or malignancies to surveillance by an individual s immune system. In one aspect such methods may be performed by administration of hydroxytyrosol containing formulations to stimulate rapid proliferation of normal peripheral blood cells increasing the number of naturally occurring natural killer NK cells found in the population and enhancing cytotoxic immunity against the cancer. Such methods may be accomplished using the various routs of administration and dosing schemes discussed above. In another aspect increased sensitization of cancer cells may be achieved by isolating immune cells from an individual treating the immune cells with hydroxytyrosol containing compositions ex vivo and returning the treated cells to an individual.

LSD1 also referred to as KDM1A is a histone H3K4 K9 demethylase and epigenetic regulator with roles in both gene activation and repression. LSD1 has been shown to have increased expression in multiple cancer types. LSD1 is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 8 323 941 and 7 741 086 which are incorporated herein by reference. LSD1 is a histone demethylase with specificity for mono and dimethyl histone H3 lysine 4 and mono and dimethyl histone H3 lysine 9. Such histone demethylases contribute to epigenetic regulation of gene expression which provides cells with a heritable mechanism for controlling gene expression without altering the DNA nucleotide sequence. LSD1 is highly conserved in high eukaryotes and null mutation of LSD1 genes in mouse causes embryonic lethality.

LSD1 is a member of the flavin adenine dinucleotide FAD dependent family of amine oxidases which require FAD to oxidize the mono or dimethyl lysine to an imine intermediate that is further hydrolyzed to unmodified lysine and formaldehyde. LSD1 was identified as a component of the Ctb co repressor complex and as a member of the CoREST repressor complex. When the CoREST complex is targeted to lineage specific genes LSD1 demethylates the activating H3K4me2 mark to silence their expression. Additional repressive complexes containing LSD1 have been identified including NRD and subsets of the HDAC complexes.

Conversely LSD1 has been found to interact with multiple proteins complexes that function in gene activation. LSD1 is recruited via interaction with androgen receptor or estrogen receptor for transcription of androgen receptor and estrogen receptor target genes. In this role LSD1 is thought to demethylate the repressive H3K9me2 mark to allow for gene activation. LSD1 is also a member of a transcription elongation complex composed of ELL elongation factor RNA polymerase II pTEFb AF4 and AFF4. Additionally LSD1 is a component of an MLL supercomplex associated with active transcription. MLL itself is an epigenetic modifier as a histone methyltransferase with specificity for H3K4.

In one aspect of the present invention hydroxytyrosol containing formulation may be employed to alter the interactions of LSD1 is various proteins or complexes. In a preferred embodiment hydroxytyrosol containing formulations are employed to induce epigenetic effects for example through inhibiting LSD1 and thereby altering H3K9 methylation and or through altering interactions with other factors. In another aspect hydroxytyrosol containing formulations may be utilized to induce changes in gene expression related to particular functions for example glucose metabolism.

Human LSD1 consists of 852 amino acids and comprises an N terminal SWIRM domain involved in protein interactions and a C terminal amine oxidase domain which contains an insertion that forms the CoREST interacting site the so called tower domain . A truncation mutant of LSD1 lacking its N terminal 184 residues retained full demethylase activity against methylated H3 K4 peptide substrates.

Studies investigating potential inhibitors of LSD have elucidated the protein crystal structure of LSD1 and a substrate like peptide inhibitor which was derived from the N terminal 21 amino acid residues of histone H3 peptide in which lysine 4 K4 is replaced by methionine that binds to LSD1 with high binding affinity K 0.05 mol L . Wang et al. Cancer Res. 71 23 7238 7249 2011 . These studies have further shown that the positively charged residues Arg2 and Arg8 of the peptide establish favorable electrostatic interactions with a cluster of negatively charged residues on LSD1 surface that involve Asp375 Glu379 Asp553 Asp555 Asp556 Asp557 and Glu559. The funneled channel that accesses to FAD is blocked by the peptide inhibitor.

LSD1 can be inhibited or inactivated in a number of ways. Tranylcypromine Parnate is a non reversible monoamine oxidase enzymatic inhibitor of that inhibits the amine oxidase function of LSD1 by covalently modifying the FAD cofactor of LSD1. Phase II clinical trials of tranylcypromine in acute myeloid leukemia patients have already commenced.

Other enzymatic inhibitors of LSD1 have been identified for example by Wang et al. Cancer Res. 71 23 7238 7249 2011 that inhibit LSD1 activity without forming a covalent bond by blocking the funneled channel that accesses to FAD. These novel inhibitors exhibited half maximal inhibitory concentrations IC50 at 5.27 11.16 M 5.27 11.16 e 006M .

Willmann et al. Int. J. of Cancer 131 11 2704 09 2012 also reported a selective and reversible LSD1 inhibitor Namoline which blocks LSD1 demethylase activity in vitro and in vivo. Namoline has a reported LSD1 half maximal inhibitory concentration IC50 of 50 M.

The amine oxidase activity of LSD1 may also be inhibited by preventing binding of the peptide substrate. This can be accomplished by occupying the substrate binding site by altering the conformation of the binding site or by interacting with key amino acids that affect substrate binding including preventing establishment of favorable electrostatic interactions with any of the cluster of negatively charged residues on LSD1 surface that involve Asp375 Glu379 Asp553 Asp555 Asp556 Asp557 and Glu559. Without being bound by any particular theory compositions of the invention including hydroxytyrosol or derivatives or equivalents of hydroxytyrosol or oleuropein may inhibit the enzymatic activity of LSD1 in any of these ways.

LSD1 can also be inhibited by blocking interactions with partner proteins. For Example Ferrari Amorotti et al. showed that preventing the interaction of LSD1 with the E box binding transcription repressor Slug suppressed motility and invasiveness of cancer cells similar to inhibition of LSD1 with Parnate. Cancer Res. 2013 Jan. 1 73 1 235 45 2012 .

In addition LSD1 can be inactivated by downregulation using methods familiar to a person of skill in the art including gene down regulation or targeted knock down of the gene by RNA interference RNAi . For example Wang et al. ablated LSD1 expression with a specific siRNA targeted at an mRNA region that is identical between mouse and human LSD1 genes that induced a marked inhibition of cell growth and BrdUrd incorporation in cancer cells.

In one embodiment of the invention the hydroxytyrosol containing formulations inhibit LSD1 activity. In one aspect hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein or homologues of hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein binds directly to LSD1. In a more specific aspect hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein or homologues of hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein may mediate inhibition of LSD1 by interacting with for example the flavin group of the FAD contained in the LSD1 protein or a site close to the adenosine group . In a more specific aspect hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein or homologues of hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein may mediate inhibition of LSD1 by interacting with specific residues on LSD1 for example the tryptophan residue at position 807 Trp807 the phenylalanine at position 560 Phe560 and or the histidine at position 812 His812 .

In one aspect LDS1 inhibition results in modification of histone methylation. Such inhibition may comprise alteration of di methylation of lysine 9 of histone H3 H3K9 . Such alteration may comprise an increase or a decrease in H3K9 dimethylation.

LSD1 has been linked to a large number of cancer types including non small cell lung cancer Lv et al. PLoS ONE 7 4 e35065. doi 10.1371 journal.pone.0035065 2012 breast cancer Wu et al. PNAS 109 41 16654 59 2012 hepatocellular carcinoma Zhao et al. Tumor Biology 34 1 173 80 2013 colon cancer Jin et al. Biochem J. 449 2 459 68 2013 prostate cancer Willmann et al. Int. J. of Cancer 131 11 2704 09 2012 chondrosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma osteosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma Bennani Bati et al. Human Pathology 43 8 1300 07 2012 olitary fibrous tumors synovial sarcomas rhabdomyosarcomas desmoplastic small round cell tumors and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors Schildhaus et al. Human Pathology 42 11 1667 75 2011 teratocarcinoma embryonic carcinoma and seminoma or embryonic stem cells that express the stem cell markers Oct4 and Sox2 Wang et al. Cancer Res. 71 23 7238 49 2011 and bladder cancer Kauffman et al. Mol. Carcinogenesis 50 12 931 44 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Schenk et al. specifically showed LSD1 to be a therapeutic target and that it may contribute to acute myeloid leukemia AML pathogenesis Inhibition of LSD1 by tranylcypromine allowed for effective treatment of AML otherwise unresponsive to all trans retinoic acid ATRA therapy. The authors suggested that LSD1 may contribute to AML pathogenesis and inhibition of LSD1 could provide for new combinatorial therapies for AML.

In addition Harris et al. Cancer Cell. 2012 Apr. 17 21 4 473 87 showed that inhibition of LSD1 prevented development of leukemia in a murine model of mixed lineage leukemia MLL leukemia by inducing differentiation of MLL leukemia cells. The authors suggested that LSD1 was responsible for promoting the oncongenic gene program associated with certain types of leukemia.

Conventional efforts to develop specific inhibitors of the LDS1 protein expressed in a majority of cancers have had limited success to date. In particular development of specific inhibitors of the LDS1 protein at the FAD or the funneled channel that accesses to FAD including Asp375 Glu379 Asp553 Asp555 Asp556 Asp557 and Glu559 sites have not resulted in significant advances in cancer treatment and or prevention.

LSD1 has also been implicated in the activation of HIV viral transcription Sakane et al. PLoS Pathology 7 8 e1002184. doi 10.1371 journal.ppat.1002184 and in HIV 1 gene silencing in latently infected cells Le Douce et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 2012 40 5 1904 1915 . Further LSD1 has been linked to both repression of inflammation Janzer et al. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 421 4 665 70 2012 and hypertension Williams et al. Am J Hypertens. 25 7 812 17 2012 .

Without being limited to a particular theory it is believed that hydroxytyrosol interacts directly with LSD1 in a manner that inhibits the FAD dependent oxidation of methylated lysine either by binding FAD or by blocking the funneled channel that accesses to FAD. In the alternative hydroxytyrosol may block peptide ligand binding by inhabiting the ligand binding site altering the conformation of the ligand binding site of LSD1 or interacting with key amino acid residues that affect substrate binding by LSD1. The invention therefore embodies any derivative of oleuropein or hydroxytyrosol or structural mimic or homologue thereof that exhibits binding and or inhibition characteristics similar to hydroxytyrosol.

As demonstrated by this invention hydroxytyrosol inhibits the enzymatic activity of LSD1 . Unlike other inhibitors of LSD1 hydroxytyrosol is a naturally occurring compound lacking the substantial toxic side effects of other inhibitors. According to the invention LSD1 is inhibited by exposure to hydroxytyrosol or compositions comprising hydroxytyrosol. This inhibition of LSD1 prevents the growth development migration and metastasis of cancer cells. Although not bound by this exemplary embodiment hydroxytyrosol can be provided in order to inhibit enzymatic activity prevent association with co factors or partner proteins or decrease expression of LSD1 in target cancer cells thereby preventing the growth development migration or metastasis of cancer cells.

In addition hydroxytyrosol or derivatives of hydroxytyrosol and or oleuropein may inhibit LSD1 by preventing the binding of partner proteins or cofactors or by downregulating the protein. It is understood that inhibition of LSD1 by hydroxytyrosol or derivatives equivalents of hydroxytyrosol or oleuropein can be by one or more of these mechanisms.

In another embodiment hydroxytyrosol is used to treat cancer in an individual by inhibiting LSD1 and thereby inhibiting cancer cell growth development or metastasis. In a preferred embodiment the individual is screened for a cancer that is linked to LSD1 and if the individual has a cancer linked to LSD1 the individual is treated with a composition of the present invention. In another embodiment hydroxytyrosol is used to prevent the growth or development of cancer in an individual.

The compositions of the present invention may also be used to detect cancer cells that express LSD1 or are susceptible to LSD1 inhibition. As disclosed according to the invention cancer cells can be assayed for sensitivity to LSD1 inhibition by contacting with compositions comprising hydroxytyrosol. Sensitivity can be measured using a variety of indicators including for example cell growth proliferation and or death alteration of gene expression and epigenetic effects cell invasion cell migration cell adhesion and or expression of cancer cell markers.

In a further embodiment detection of hydroxytyrosol sensitivity of cancer cells may be used as part of a method for treatment of an individual with an LSD1 expressing cancer. According to the invention and individual may be screened for a cancer sensitive to hydroxytyrosol via LSD1 inhibition and upon identification of a hydroxytyrosol sensitive cancer the individual may be administered a composition of hydroxytyrosol sufficient to treat or prevent development of the cancer.

It is understood from the disclosures made herein that in vitro efficacy of treatment with hydroxytyrosol alone or as part of an exemplary formulation or in conjunction with additional treatments is predictive of in vivo efficacy. For example dosing schemes for chemotherapeutic agents doxorubicin vinblastine and mitomycin C are well understood in the art. Further according to aspects of the invention dosing for administration of hydroxytyrosol alone or as part of an exemplary formulation or in conjunction with additional treatments wherein the hydroxytyrosol or formulation is administered at 0.5 mg kg body weight for 5 days per week for 6 weeks.

All publications and patent applications in this specification are indicative of the level of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. All publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated as incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention are further defined in the following non limiting Examples. It should be understood that these Examples while indicating certain embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these Examples one skilled in the art can ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention and without departing from the spirit and scope thereof can make various changes and modifications of the embodiments of the invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. Thus various modifications of the embodiments of the invention in addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

The molecular docking program AutoDock Vina was used to propose energetically favorable binding sites for hydroxytyrosol on human LSD1. Docking was performed on the crystal structure of LSD1 complexed with FAD covalently bonded to tranylcypromine PDBID 2EJR . Prior to docking calculations all waters as well as the tranylcypromine adduct were removed to create a PDB file containing only LSD1 and FAD. Although the control compound tranylcypromine is known to inhibit LSD1 via covalent attachment to the co factor FAD preliminary work does not assume covalent bonding between HT and FAD. This enables identification of possible HT binding sites both near and distal from the FAD pocket. On the other hand predicted binding sites close to FAD may enable the identification of candidate structures for FAD with HT adduct. Predicted docking poses may also help guide determination and refinement of the HT FAD chemical structure and conformation within the protein inhibitor co crystal structure. In addition we modeled the novel LSD1 inhibitor 2d 1 15 bisN 5 3 3 diphenyl propyl N 1 biguanido 4 12 diazapentadecane and compared binding energies to those of HT.

The hydroxytyrosol ligand structure was obtained from the ZINC small molecule structure database and converted to PDB format using Deepview. LSD1 FAD and hydroxytyrosol PDB files were pre processed using PyRx to create their corresponding PDBQT files for use with Autodock Vina. All five rotatable torsions for hydroxytyrosol were activated while LSD1 FAD was assumed to be rigid. PyRx was used to define the ligand search grid with the center coinciding with those of the amine oxidase domain with x y z dimensions of 65 3. The grid encompasses the amine oxidase domain surface and enables exhaustive search of potential binding sites. The searches were each conducted with exhaustiveness of 2000. Calculations were performed on a 180 node 64 bit Intel Xeon E5 2670 cluster housed at the Victorian Partnership for Advanced Computing VPAC facilities utilizing 16 nodes 256 cores per docking search. The top 20 predicted hydroxytyrosol binding poses were visualized and analyzed using VMD version 1.9.2.

Preliminary docking calculations of HT to FAD bound LSD1 indicate two clusters of docking solutions indicative of the possible presence of two distinct favorable binding sites for this inhibitor. The most energetically favorable site is close to the flavin group of the FAD while the other site is close to the adenosine group. The binding pose with the highest predicted binding affinity lies close to the flavin group and is illustrated in and . The HT ring is predicted to form close contacts with several aromatic and basic residues in particular the tryptophan residue at position 807 Trp807 the phenylalanine at position 560 Phe560 and or the histidine at position 812 His812 suggesting the possible importance of and cation interactions in stabilizing the binding between LSD1 and HT . Also of interest is a predicted docking site which directly overlaps with the position of the tranylcypromine adduct in 2EJR . This binding pose may help in identifying positions on the flavin ring which may covalently bind HT in a manner analogous to the covalent linkage of tranylcypromine to FAD as part of its inhibition mechanism.

The docking studies indicate that HT binds to LSD1 with an affinity analogous to 2d. The predicted binding affinities are for competitive binding of 2d 7.4 kcal mol Kd 5.97 10mol L at 300K and HT 5.8 kcal mol Kd 5.95 10mol L at 300K .

Hydroxytyrosol induces cell death apoptosis and DNA double strand breaks in erythroleukemic cells but not in normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

Human chronic myelogenous leukemia K562 cells were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. USA and maintained in complete Royal Park Memorial Institute RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 20 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10. Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were fractionated using the Ficoll Plaque fractionation method from whole blood obtained from the Australian Red Cross Blood Bank ARCB under ethic approval 304 12 . Cells were harvested fresh on the day of the experiments and maintained in complete RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine and 20 g mL gentamicin at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Cells were seeded at densities of 7 500 cells in black flat bottom 96 well plates Nalge Nunc Penfield N.Y. USA and treated with a dose response of hydroxytyrosol 0 200 M oleuropein 0 800 M tyrosol 0 1000 M and homovanilic acid 0 1000 M for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cell viability was determined after 24 hour exposure to hydroxytyrosol and measured using the Cell Titer Blue Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Cell Titer Blue reagent was added to each well and incubated for 4 hours at 37 C. 5 CO before reading fluorescence intensity 550 nm excitation 615 nm emission using the Perkin Elmer Victor3 Perkin Elmer MA USA multi label plate reader.

Cells were seeded at densities of 1 10 mL in 24 well culture Nalge Nunc New York USA and treated with hydroxytyrosol 0 20 100 M for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cells were then stained and quantified for the number of H2AX foci per cell nuclei. Briefly using cytofunnels and filter cards aliquots of 450 L were cytospun Shandon Inc. for 5 minutes at 500 rpm onto Poly o lysine slides Menzel Glaser Germany . All cells were then fixed for 10 minutes with 4 paraformaldehyde Sigma Aldrich USA washed once for five minutes with PBS without calcium and magnesium and permeabilized using 0.1 Triton X 100 Sigma Aldrich USA for 10 minutes at room temperature. After three consecutive 5 minute washes with PBS without calcium and magnesium cells were blocked in 1 BSA to reduce non specific binding for 20 minutes. After removal of blocking solution cells were incubated in mouse monoclonal anti phospho histone H2AX antibody Upstate New York USA diluted in 1 BSA 1 500 in a dark humidified environment for one hour on a rotating platform at room temperature. Following three consecutive washes cells were exposed to a secondary goat anti mouse antibody 1 500 in 1 BSA conjugated with Alexa 488 Molecular Probes Oregon USA and incubated for 1 hour in a dark humidified environment on a rotating platform at room temperature. Following three consecutive washes cells were incubated in TO PRO3 Invitrogen Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA diluted in PBS in a 1 1000 dilution for 20 minutes in the dark on a rotating platform. After two 5 minute washes in PBS cells were mounted with prolong Gold antifade solution Invitrogen Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA coverslipped Biolab VIC AUS and sealed with nail polish. Slides were incubated overnight at 4 C. before imaging.

Images were acquired using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta laser confocal microscope fitted with a Z stage motor and 63 oil plan apochromat objective with a refractive index of 1.40. Argon Alexa 488 and Neon TOPRO3 lasers were acquired to visualize H2AX foci and DNA double strand breaks. A step size of 0.5 m was used taking 8 16 optical Z slices of the cells for each microscopic field. A pinhole size of 1 was used to maximize the spatial resolution. Images required for H2AX quantification were acquired in 512 512 pixel format and loaded into Image J Fiji version 1.44a . Images used in the presentation of H2AX foci formation or DNA double strand breaks repair proteins were acquired in a 1024 1024 pixel format. A minimum of 100 cells were imaged for each experimental group for all cell types.

Image J software was used for the quantification of foci in all experiments. Confocal images lsm files acquired in Z series were loaded and the Maximum Z projection tool was applied to stack individual colors into a 2D image and minimize the loss of dull foci. To analyze more than one cell per image stack from the nucleus blue image each individual nucleus was defined by manually drawing regions around the nuclei. Nuclei which were not fully in view dull out of plan or overlapping were carefully not selected to reduce error in the determination of foci number. The area selected to analyze foci could be automatically transferred to the foci green maximum projection image by selecting the corresponding green image. Now clearly defined nuclear regions were selected numbers of foci were quantified by using the find maxima tool. By selecting the outpoint type as point selection and ticking the preview point selection box a noise tolerance was selected by carefully comparing visual inspection of foci with automated counts. A noise tolerance was typically chosen between 50 and 1000. Foci were now quantified as a total number for all cells selected. The average number of foci per nucleus was calculated and recorded into Excel spread sheets Microsoft Redmond Wash. USA . A minimum of 100 cells were analyzed for each experiment group with noise tolerance kept constant for the entire analysis.

Statistical analysis was measured using Prism version 5 GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. USA . A one way analysis of variance ANOVA was employed with a Bonferroni post test to determine the statistical significance between differing treatments. The level of significance was accepted at p

Our findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces cell death and apoptosis preferentially in chronic myeloid leukemic K562 cells compared to normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC . Using Cell Titer Blue cell viability assay kit the cell viability of K562 cells was significantly reduced in a dose dependent manner following treatment with 20 or 100 M of hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours. In addition these effects were not reciprocated in the normal PBMC cells and cell viability remained at 100 . Similarly the Apo ONE Homogeneous Caspase 3 7 assay kit was employed to levels of caspase 3 7 activity within the cells following hydroxytyrosol. Again a significant dose dependent increase in caspase 3 7 apoptotic activity was observed in the K562 cells that was not mirrored in the PBMC cells. Using H2AX investigations our findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces significant DNA double strand breaks indicated by accumulation of H2AX in K562 increasing genomic instability and decreasing cell integrity . These affects were not seen in the PBMC cell.

Hydroxytyrosol augments the cytotoxic apoptotic and DNA damaging effects of doxorubicin in human erythroleukemic cells but in normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

Cells were seeded at densities of 1 10 mL in 24 well cultures Nalge Nunc New York USA and treated with 0 20 or 100 M hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours prior to one hour incubation in 1 M doxorubicin. The cells were then washed twice and incubated for a further 24 hours in fresh media 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Alternatively Cells were seeded at densities of 7 500 cells in black flat bottom 96 well plates Nalge Nunc Penfield N.Y. USA and treated with 100 M hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Following incubation cells were either treated with 1 or 10 M doxorubicin 1 M mitomycin C 100 ng mL vinblastin 5 kJ mUVA or 2 Gy 137Cs and incubated for a further 24 hours before measuring cytotoxic and apoptotic effects. Cell Titer Blue reagent 20 l per 100 L was added to each well and mixed gently for 5 sec prior to 4 hr incubation at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO. Fluorescence intensity ex 550 nm and em 615 nm was determined using a Perkin Elmer Victor3 multilabel microplate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Data were expressed as relative cell viability compared to untreated cells after correction of subtracting the media control fluorescence reading.

Apoptosis was determined by cell lysis prior to measuring caspase 3 7 enzymatic activity with Apo ONE Homogeneous Caspase 3 7 Assay kit Promega WI USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Following determination of growth inhibition as described above Apo 1 substrate buffer mix was added to each well at a ratio of 1 1 and incubated for 4 hours on a rotating platform in the dark at 22 C. The fluorescence intensity ex 485 nm and em 525 nm was determined on a Victor3 multilabel plate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Apoptosis was reported as the change in fluorescence over 4 hours and after subtraction of the media control.

Cells were seeded at densities of 0.5 10 mL in 24 well cultures Nalge Nunc New York USA and treated with or without 100 M hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours prior to one hour incubation in 1 M doxorubicin. The cells were then washed twice and incubated for a further 24 hours in fresh media 37 C. 5 v v COprior to staining for H2AX. In separate experiments were treated with 1 M mitomycin C or 100 ng mL vinblastin for 2 hours following treatment with hydroxytyrosol or were exposed to 5 kJ mUVA or 2 Gy 137Cs and incubated for a further 1 hour before fixing and staining for H2AX.

Following combinations treatments cells were then stained and quantified for the number of H2AX foci per cell nuclei. Briefly using cytofunnels and filter cards aliquots of 450 L were cytospun Shandon Inc. for 5 minutes at 500 rpm onto Poly o lysine slides Menzel Glaser Germany . All cells were then fixed for 10 minutes with 4 paraformaldehyde Sigma Aldrich USA washed once for five minutes with PBS without calcium and magnesium and permeabilized using 0.1 Triton X 100 Sigma Aldrich USA for 10 minutes at room temperature. After three consecutive 5 minute washes with PBS without calcium and magnesium cells were blocked in 1 BSA to reduce non specific binding for 20 minutes. After removal of blocking solution cells were incubated in mouse monoclonal anti phospho histone H2AX antibody Upstate New York USA diluted in 1 BSA 1 500 in a dark humidified environment for one hour on a rotating platform at room temperature. Following three consecutive washes cells were exposed to a secondary goat anti mouse antibody 1 500 in 1 BSA conjugated with Alexa 488 Molecular Probes Oregon USA and incubated for 1 hour in a dark humidified environment on a rotating platform at room temperature. Following three consecutive washes cells were incubated in TO PRO3 Invitrogen Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA diluted in PBS in a 1 1000 dilution for 10 minutes in the dark on a rotating platform. After two 5 minute washes in PBS cells were mounted with prolong Gold antifade solution Invitrogen Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA coverslipped Biolab VIC AUS and sealed with nail polish. Slides were incubated overnight at 4 C. before imaging.

Images were acquired using a Zeiss LSM 510 Meta laser confocal microscope fitted with a Z stage motor and 63 oil plan apochromat objective with a refractive index of 1.40. Argon Alexa 488 and Neon TOPRO3 lasers were acquired to visualize H2AX foci and DNA double strand breaks. A step size of 0.5 m was used taking 8 16 optical Z slices of the cells for each microscopic field. A pinhole size of 1 was used to maximize the spatial resolution. Images required for H2AX quantification were acquired in 512 512 pixel format and loaded into Image J Fiji version 1.44a . Images used in the presentation of H2AX foci formation or DNA double strand breaks repair proteins were acquired in a 1024 1024 pixel format. A minimum of 100 cells were imaged for each experimental group for all cell types.

Image J software was used for the quantification of foci in all experiments. Confocal images lsm files acquired in Z series were loaded and the Maximum Z projection tool was applied to stack individual colors into a 2D image and minimize the loss of dull foci. To analyses more than one cell per image stack from the nucleus blue image each individual nucleus was defined by manually drawing regions around the nuclei. Nuclei which were not fully in view dull out of plan or overlapping were carefully not selected to reduce error in the determination of foci number. The area selected to analyses foci could be automatically transferred to the foci green maximum projection image by selecting the corresponding green image. Now clearly defined nuclear regions were selected numbers of foci were quantified by using the find maxima tool. By selecting the outpoint type as point selection and ticking the preview point selection box a noise tolerance was selected by carefully comparing visual inspection of foci with automated counts. A noise tolerance was typically chosen between 50 and 1000. Foci were now quantified as a total number for all cells selected. The average number of foci per nucleus was calculated and recorded into Excel spread sheets Microsoft Redmond Wash. USA . A minimum of 100 cells were analyzed for each experiment group with noise tolerance kept constant for the entire analysis.

Statistical analysis was measured using Prism version 5 GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. USA . A one way analysis of variance ANOVA was employed with a Bonferroni post test to determine the statistical significance between differing treatments. The level of significance was accepted at p

Cell Titer Blue reagent 20 l per 100 L was added to each well and mixed gently for 5 sec prior to 4 hr incubation at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO. Fluorescence intensity ex 550 nm and em 615 nm was determined using a Perkin Elmer Victor3 multilabel microplate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Data were expressed as relative cell viability compared to untreated cells after correction of subtracting the media control fluorescence reading.

Apoptosis was determined by cell lysis prior to measuring caspase 3 7 enzymatic activity with Apo ONE Homogeneous Caspase 3 7 Assay kit Promega WI USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Following determination of growth inhibition as described above Apo 1 substrate buffer mix was added to each well at a ratio of 1 1 and incubated for 4 hours on a rotating platform in the dark at 22 C. The fluorescence intensity ex 485 nm and em 525 nm was determined on a Victor3 multilabel plate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Apoptosis was reported as the change in fluorescence over 4 hours and after subtraction of the media control.

Hydroxytyrosol enhances the cytotoxicity of doxorubicin in K562 cells. The anthracycline doxorubicin is widely used in cancer therapy as a front line chemotherapeutic. Findings indicate that pre treatment of K562 cells with hydroxytyrosol enhances the DNA damaging and cytotoxic effects of doxorubicin by inducing caspase 3 7 apoptosis and DNA double strand breaks . Importantly this effect was evident preferentially in the malignant K562 cells compared to the PBMC cells.

The results further show hydroxytyrosol enhances the DNA damaging effects of all anti cancer modalities tested in the erythroleukemic K562 malignant cell model. The efficacy of hydroxytyrosol used in conjunction with the anthracycline doxorubicin FIG. widely used in cancer therapy as a front line chemotherapeutic anti cancer agents vinblastine and mitomycin C and the radiation modalities UVA and ionizing radiation was investigated. The results indicate that pre treatment of K562 cells with hydroxytyrosol enhances the cytotoxic effects of most anti cancer modalities also via the induction of caspase 3 7 apoptosis and DNA double strand breaks. These findings suggest the potential for combinatorial effects of hydroxytyrosol with current conventional cancer therapies.

According to embodiments of the invention the use of HT containing compositions in conjunction with chemotherapeutic agents e.g. doxorubicin demonstrate benefits for the combined use of hydroxytyrosol and doxorubicin in cancer therapy.

hydroxytyrosol containing formulation sensitizes chronic myeloid leukemic K562 cells to immune surveillance by 65 .

Cells were seeded at densities of 7 500 cells in black flat bottom 96 well plates Nalge Nunc Penfield N.Y. USA and treated with a dose response of Formulation 1 2 Table 7 for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cell viability was measured by the Cell Titer Blue assay kit as previously described.

Normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells and erythroleukemic K562 cells were seeded at densities of 1 10 mL in 24 well culture Nalge Nunc New York USA and treated separately with hydroxytyrosol containing formulation 2 dilution factor 4 for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cells were then washed twice and co incubated in ratios of 1 50 K562 PBMC for a further 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cells were then incubated for with 5 M Hoechst 33342 for 1 hour and 10 M propidium iodide for 15 minutes prior to live imaging using an Olympus FSX100 Bio Imaging Navigator fluorescence microscope. Images were analyzed using Image J Fiji version 1.4 software and the number of dead cells shown by propidium iodide was quantified. Percentages of dead cells for the total population of cells per frame were calculated.

Biological immune surveillance is the immune systems defense system within the human body to recognize and destroy not only invading pathogens but also host cells that become cancerous. A hydroxytyrosol containing formulation of the present invention Formulation 2 Table 9 sensitizes chronic myeloid leukemic K562 cells to immune surveillance by 65 by stimulation of rapid proliferation of normal peripheral blood cells increasing the number of naturally occurring natural killer NK cells found in the population and enhancing cytotoxic immunity .

Hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein induce cell death and apoptosis in human malignant cell lines but not in normal cells.

Human chronic myelogenous leukemia K562 cells ATCC No. CCL 243 human large B lymphocyte non Hodgkin s lymphoma LCL cells human leukemic monocyte lymphoma U937 cells ATCC No. CRL 1593.2 human prostate adenocarcinoma PC3 ATCC No. CRL 1435 and human gastric carcinoma SNU 16 cells ATCC No. CRL 5974 were maintained in complete Royal Park Memorial Institute RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 20 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10.

Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were fractionated using the Ficoll Plaque fractionation method from whole blood obtained from the Australian Red Cross Blood Bank ARCB under ethic approval 304 12 . Cells were harvested fresh on the day of the experiments and maintained in complete RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine and 20 g mL gentamicin at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Human cutaneous T cell lymphoma MyLa cells expressing CD4 ECACC No. 95051032 and CD8 ECACC No. 95051033 were obtained from the European Culture Collection of Cell Cultures ECACC CAMR Salisbury UK and maintained in complete RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen 10 v v human AB serum Lonza Basel Switzerland and 100 u mL IL 2 Sigma Aldrich USA or 100 u mL IL 2 Sigma Aldrich USA with 100 u mL IL 4 R D Systems MN USA respectively. Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v CO2 at 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged three times per week and seeded at ratios 1 2. Liver hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells ATCC No. Nb 8065 were maintained in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and were cultured in 75 cmT flask and maintained at 37 C. in 5 COhumidified incubator.

Human acute T lymphoblast leukemic CEM CCRF cells ATTC NO. CCL 119 obtained from the ATCC were maintained in Modified Eagle s Medium MEM supplemented with 2 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA 10 v v FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Similarly CEM CCRF P glycoprotein PGP over expressing vinblastine derivative R100 cells expressing multi drug resistance MDR were grown in a MEM supplemented with 2 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 10 v v FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine 80 units gentamicin and 100 ng ml vinblastine. R100 cells were cultured in a MEM FBS gentamicin media without vinblastine for 7 days prior to use in experiments. Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10.

Human acute myeloid leukemic HL 60 cells ATCC No. CCL 240 obtained from the ATCC were maintained in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM Gibco Invitrogen Carlsbad USA supplemented with 20 fetal bovine serum FBS In Vitro Technologies Victoria Australia antibody antimycotic containing 100 U mL Penicillin 100 g mL Streptomycin 0.25 g mL Amphotericin B Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA and 1 GlutaMAX Gibco Invitrogen . Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10.

Human epidermal squamous carcinoma A431 cells ATCC No. CRL 1555 human breast adenocarcinoma MCF7 cells ATCC No. HTB 22 and brain glioblastoma T98G cells ATCC No. CRL 1690 obtained from the ATCC were grown as monolayers in a Modified Eagle s Medium MEM supplemented with 2 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen 10 v v FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Human epithelial lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells ATCC No. CCL 185 human liver hepatocellular carcinoma and human colorectal carcinoma HT 29 cells ATCC No. HTB 38 were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection and grown as monolayers in DMEM Gibco Invitrogen supplemented with 10 v v FBS In Vitro Technologies antibody antimycotic containing 100 U mL Penicillin 100 g mL Streptomycin 0.25 g mL Amphotericin B Invitrogen Carlsbad . All adherent cells were maintained in the exponential growth phase in T75 cmvented culture flasks and passaged by 0.05 v v trypsin EDTA GIBCO Invitrogen before seeding at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Cell proliferation was determined using the Cell Titer Blue Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. USA . Cells were seeded at 10 000 cells per well in black flat bottom 96 well plates Nalge Nunc Penfield N.Y. USA and treated with serial doses of hydroxytyrosol 0 3200 M and oleuropein 0 12800 M for 24 48 and 120 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Following incubation with the test samples Cell Titer Blue reagent 20 l per 100 L was added to each well and mixed gently for 5 sec prior to 4 hr incubation at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO. Fluorescence intensity ex 550 nm and em 615 nm was determined using a Perkin Elmer Victor3 multilabel microplate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Data were expressed as relative cell viability compared to untreated cells after correction of subtracting the media control fluorescence reading.

Apoptosis was determined following 24 hours incubation with 50 M hydroxytyrosol and 200 M oleuropein prior to cell lysis and measuring caspase 3 7 enzymatic activity with Apo ONE Homogeneous Caspase 3 7 Assay kit Promega WI USA according to the manufacturer s instructions. Following determination of growth inhibition as described above Apo 1 substrate buffer mix was added to each well at a ratio of 1 1 and incubated for 4 hours on a rotating platform in the dark at 22 C. The fluorescence intensity ex 485 nm and em 525 nm was determined on a Victor3 multilabel plate counter PerkinElmer Waltham Mass. USA . Apoptosis was reported as the change in fluorescence over 4 hours and after subtraction of the media control.

Statistical analysis was measured using Prism version 6 GraphPad Software San Diego Calif. USA . A one way analysis of variance ANOVA was employed with a Bonferroni post test to determine the statistical significance between differing treatments. The level of significance was accepted at p

Our findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces cell death and apoptosis preferentially in malignant cells compared to normal cells. In vitro studies investigating the effects of hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein on proliferation in numerous normal and malignant cells Table 1 show both hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein decreases the viability and inhibit proliferation of all malignant cells in a dose dependent manner following 24 hours treatment .

In addition investigation of the ECvalues following 24 48 and 120 hours incubations of hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein showed that ECvalues decreased in response to incubation time of the olive constituents Table 3 .

The Apo One homogenous caspase 3 7 assay was used to measure the relative caspase 3 7 induction in haematological malignant and normal peripheral blood cells. Cells were pre treated with either 50 M hydroxytyrosol and 100 M oleuropein for 24 hours prior to cell lysis by the Apo One assay reagents. The results show significant augmentation in the induction of caspase 3 7 apoptosis in all haematological cell lines investigated by either hydroxytyrosol or oleuropein but not normal peripheral blood cells PBMC . In most cell lines both hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein were found to be effective.

mRNA Seq indicates that hydroxytyrosol regulates the expression of various genes in a dose dependent manner genes associated with cell death cell cycle and apoptosis are regulated in K562 cells. Antioxidant and anti inflammatory pathways are modulated in human keratinocytes. In vitro assays indicate that hydroxytyrosol is a potent inhibitor of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 .

Human chronic myelogenous leukemia K562 cells ATCC No. CCL 243 were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. USA and maintained in complete Royal Park Memorial Institute RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 20 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10. Human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes transfected with the human papilloma virus HPV were grown as monolayers in keratinocyte Serum Free Medium SFM medium GIBCO Invitrogen supplemented with L glutamine human epidermal growth factor EGF and bovine pituitary extract BPE at 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cells were passaged by trypsinisation and seeded at ratio of 1 3.

Cells were seeded at densities of 1 10 mL in culture flasks Nalge Nunc New York USA and treated with hydroxytyrosol 0 20 100 M for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. mRNA sequencing was performed by TRIZOL extraction and library preparation using Illumina kits according to manufacturer s protocols. Next generation sequencing NGS was performed at a depth of approximately 20 million mapped reads per sample to determine the effect of hydroxytyrosol on genome wide gene expression in human erythroleukemic K562 cells and human keratinocytes 24 hr treatment 20 and 100 M . Reads generated by the Illumina base calling software V1.6 were aligned with Burrows Wheeler Aligner to the human transcriptome database curated by RefSeq Hg18 build . Raw counts were normalized to adjust for slightly differing data volume across lanes giving the widely used score reads per transcript per million reads. These scores were used to determine relative fold changes and the conventionally used 1.5 fold change which is discernible with qRT PCR was defined a significant change in expression. The online program MetaCore GeneGo Inc. St. Joseph Mich. USA was used for pathway analysis.

Formulation 2 4 diluted was tested against positive control tranylcypromine for LSD1 inhibition activity. Formulation 2 4 diluted was tested in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution in singlet starting at 100 M and control compound Tranylcypromine was tested in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution starting at 100 M. The production of FAD dependent HOas a result of demethylase activity of LSD1 is measured by coupling with HRP and Amplex Red and fluorescence was measured using the EnVision plate reader at Ex Em 535 590 nm. 10 M Histone H3 1 21 K4me2 peptide was used as the standard substrate. Data was represented at the percentage of LSD1 enzymatic activity inhibition relative to DMSO controls and a curve fit for the control compound.

These findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces cell death and apoptosis preferentially in malignant K562 cells compared to PMBC cells. Similarly the findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces DNA double strand breaks in K562 cells but not normal PBMC. Analysis of genome wide mRNA Seq data indicates that hydroxytyrosol affects pathways associated with cell death apoptosis and cell cycle regulation. Further these studies have identified that hydroxytyrosol regulates the expression of numerous genes associated with epigenetic processes. In particular the findings indicate changes associated with DNA methyltransferases and histone deacetylase enzymes suggesting that hydroxytyrosol may influence chromatin architecture by altering histone post translational modifications . Table 5 shows changes in expression of epigenetic related genes in cancer cells following exposure to hydroxytyrosol according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. DNA methyltransferase and histone deacetylase gene expression was assessed following exposure to 20 M or 100 M hydroxytyrosol.

In addition our findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol protects human skin keratinocytes from radiation induced DNA damage . Next generation sequencing analysis was used to explore potential mechanisms of action. The findings indicate that hydroxytyrosol regulates the expression of approximately 3 thousand genes the majority being up regulated by 2 fold . Chromosomal analysis indicates that differential gene expression can be observed on the entire chromosome. As shown in Table 6 pathway analysis using GeneGo indicates that hydroxytyrosol affects intrinsic antioxidant pathways in the cells. In particular heme oxygenase 1 HMOX 1 is up regulated by 15 fold. Analysis of the sequencing data also indicates altered expression of genes associated with epigenetic mechanisms. Predominantly hydroxytyrosol regulates the expression of histone methyltransferases demethylases and histone deacetylase enzymes. This indicates regulation of the epigenome particularly histone post translational modifications.

Finally in vitro studies indicate hydroxytyrosol is a potent inhibitor of lysine specific demethylase 1 LSD1 . Importantly the hydroxytyrosol composition of the invention demonstrated more potent inhibition of LSD1 than tranylcypromine. Tranylcypromine is a known irreversible inhibitor of LSD1 that is currently undergoing phase II clinical trials for treatment of acute myeloid leukemia patients. The effective concentration of the hydroxytyrosol composition of the invention at which 50 of LSD1 activity was inhibited EC was approximately 5 lower than that of tranylcypromine. In addition this effective concentration is also lower than those reported for other novel LSD1 inhibitors. For example the novel inhibitors reported by Wang et al. Cancer Res. 71 23 7238 7249 2011 exhibited half maximal inhibitory concentrations at 5.27 11.16 M 5.27 11.16 e 006 M while Namoline reported by Willmann et al. Int. J. of Cancer 131 11 2704 09 2012 has a reported ICof 50 M 50 e 006 . Thus the hydroxytyrosol composition according to the present invention is a more potent inhibitor of LSD1 than other drugs currently being pursed for cancer treatment including drugs currently in clinical trials.

In vitro assays indicate that hydroxytyrosol inhibits lysine demethylase 1 LSD1 by direct binding to its substrates and subsequently effects the methylation status of histones in malignant cells.

Hydroxytyrosol was tested against positive control tranylcypromine for LSD1 inhibition activity. Hydroxytyrosol was tested in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution in singlet starting at 100 M and control compound Tranylcypromine was tested in 10 dose ICmode with 3 fold serial dilution starting at 100 M. The production of FAD dependent HOas a result of demethylase activity of LSD1 is measured by coupling with HRP and Amplex Red and fluorescence was measured using the EnVision plate reader at Ex Em 535 590 nm. 10 M Histone H3 1 21 K4me2 peptide was used as the standard substrate. Data was represented at the percentage of LSD1 enzymatic activity inhibition relative to DMSO controls and a curve fit for the control compound.

Cells were treated with or without 100 M hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours prior to collection of whole cell lysates using Mammalian Protein Extraction Reagent M PER Thermo Scientific Rockford USA . Total protein was measured using a Bradford Assay with Bovine Serum Albumin BSA Sigma Aldrich at 595 nM using a Emax Precision microplate reader. Equal amounts of protein 40 g lane were fractionated using 12 SDS PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. The membranes were incubated overnight with primary antibodies polyclonal rabbit anti H3K9me3 1 500 Abcam and polyclonal rabbit anti acetylated histone H3 1 2000 06 599 Millipore . The membranes were incubated with peroxidise conjugated goat anti mouse or donkey anti rabbit secondary antibodies 1 10000 followed by enhanced chemiluminescence staining.

In vitro studies investigating the inhibitory potential of hydroxytyrosol to LSD1 indicate hydroxytyrosol is a potent inhibitor of LSD1 . The FDA approved LSD1 inhibitor tranylcypromine was used as a positive control. The data shows hydroxytyrosol to be a more effective LSD1 inhibitor against tranylcypromine. A direct target of LSD1 is histone H3 at lysine 9. Western blot analysis shows hydroxytyrosol modifies histone H3 lysine 9 H3K9 di methylation differentially in chronic myeloid leukemic K562 cells and normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC . Following treatment with hydroxytyrosol di methylation was increased in K562 cells but decreased in PBMC cells .

Hydroxytyrosol containing Formulations reduce the cytotoxic effects induced by HOand doxorubicin represented by reduced H2AX formation.

Human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes transfected with the human papilloma virus HPV were grown as monolayers in keratinocyte Serum Free Medium SFM medium GIBCO Invitrogen supplemented with L glutamine human epidermal growth factor EGF and bovine pituitary extract BPE at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Cells were pre treated with hydroxytyrosol dilution factor 1 200 M oleuropein dilution factor 1 50 M and the Formulations 1 and 2 Table 9 for 24 hours 37 C. 5 v v CO. In separate experiments cells were treated with Formulation 3 Table 9 for 24 hours prior to 24 hour incubation with 30 M HOor were treated with McCord Formulation 2 for 24 hours prior to 24 hours incubation with 0.25 M doxorubicin 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cell viability was measured using the Cell Titer Blue Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. USA as previously described.

Keratinocytes pre treated with Formulations 1 2 and 3 Table 9 for 24 hours prior to exposure to 0 2 and 12 Gy 137Cs and incubated for a further hour 37 C. 5 v v CO before staining for H2AX as previously described.

These studies explored the protective potential of variations of HT containing formulations 1 2 and 3 Table 9 to confer the highest radioprotective activity warranting further investigation. The findings indicate that the formulation protects from damage induced by hydrogen peroxide and the anthracycline doxorubicin . In addition potent protection from ionizing radiation induced DNA damage was observed D . Removal of the olive phenolics hydroxytyrosol or oleuropein from the formulation highlights the importance of these compounds in conferring radioprotective activity. Overall the findings indicate a potential role for the hydroxytyrosol containing Formulations of the invention in ameliorating acute skin side effects associated with cancer radiotherapy.

An exemplary hydroxytyrosol containing Formulation improves the migration of keratinocytes human microvascular endothelial and human umbilical vein endothelial cells following treatment with high glucose and doxorubicin.

Human neonatal foreskin keratinocytes transfected with the human papilloma virus HPV kindly provided by Dr. Pritinder Kaur Peter McCallum Cancer Institute were grown as monolayers in keratinocyte Serum Free Medium SFM medium GIBCO Invitrogen supplemented with L glutamine human epidermal growth factor EGF and bovine pituitary extract BPE . Human microvascular endothelial cells HMEC 1 transfected with the rous sarcoma virus were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. USA and grown as monolayers in MCDB 131 medium GIBCO Invitrogen supplemented with L glutamine epidermal growth factor EGF heparin hydrocortisone and Gluta MAX GIBCO Invitrogen . Human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVECs Technoclone Vienna Austria were cultured in endothelial cell growth medium ECM supplemented with 100 U ml penicillin 100 g ml streptomycin 0.25 g ml fungizone 2 mM L glutamine 5 U ml heparin 30 50 g ml endothelial cell growth supplement Technoclone Vienna Austria . All cells were passaged by typsination and seeded into 6 well culture dishes at cell densities of 1 10cells per well at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Cells were seeded at 1 10cells per well in 6 well plates Nalge Nunc and allowed to attached overnight prior to 24 hr incubations with hydroxytyrosol containing formulation 1 2 or 3 Table 9 . In separate experiments cells were treated with 30 mM glucose for 3 days prior to one day incubation in fresh media and then 24 hour incubation with the Formulation before scratching. Experiments to determine the protection of cells following doxorubicin treatment involved treatment with the McCord formulation or individual components for 24 hours prior to 1 hour incubation with 1 M doxorubicin. Cells were washed and incubated for a further 24 hours in fresh media before scratching. Cells were then scratched by scraping the cell monolayer in a straight line using a pipet tip. Cell debris was removed following three washes with PBS without Ca and Mg and the growth media was replaced. The cells were incubated at 37 C. 5 v v COand images were acquired at time intervals between 0 200 hours. Cell migration was determined by measuring the gap distance between the two most inner cells from the scratch line using Fiji Image J version 1.4 .

Human umbilical vein endothelial cells were seeded at 50 000 cells per well in a 48 well flat bottom culture plate Nalge Nunc and allowed to attached overnight. Cells were treated with Formulation 2 dilution factor 4 for 24 hours prior to typsination by 0.05 trypsin EDTA. The cells were seeded at 10 000 cells per well in the ibidi treat angiogenesis culture slide Ibidi Martinsried Germany coated with 0.8 agarose culture medium mix according to the manufacturer s protocols. Cells were imaged immediately 0 hours and consecutively every 3 hours using an Olympus CKX41 Tokyo Japan light microscope using a 10 objective. Tube length was analyzed in Image J Fiji version 1.4 according the manufacturers analyses protocols.

Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells were seeded at 1 10cells per well in 12 well culture plates Nalge Nunc with Formulation 2 dilution factor 4 Table 9 50 M hydroxytyrosol or 200 M Oleuropein for 24 hours 37 C. 5 v v CO. In separate experiments cells were treated with 30 mM glucose for 72 hours prior to 24 hours incubation in fresh media and then a 24 hour incubation with the hydroxytyrosol containing formulation 2 dilution factor 4 37 C. 5 v v CO. Experiments to determine the protection of cells following doxorubicin treatment involved pre treatment with Formulation 2 dilution factor 4 for 24 hours prior to 1 hour incubation with 1 M doxorubicin. Cells were washed and incubated for a further 24 hours in fresh media 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cells were harvested for their total protein by centrifugation at 1000 g for 10 minutes at 4 C. to pellet cell suspensions. Lysates were collected by sonication in iced water of the cell pellet in emerged in cold lysis buffer 5 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.4 0.9 sodium chloride 0.1 glucose . Following centrifugation at 10 000 g for 15 minutes at 4 C. the supernatant was collected and Bradford assay was performed to determine protein concentration of each sample according the manufacturers protocols. Cell lysates were then used to perform the antioxidant assay kit Cayman cat 709001 MI USA according the manufacturer s protocol. Cell lysates were analyzed for their total antioxidant capacity. This included the full array of enzymes small molecules and macromolecules that the cell has developed to counteract ROS and reduce their damage together with any food derived antioxidants. The sum of endogenous and food derived antioxidants in the sample represented the total antioxidant activity of the cells and was measured by their ability to inhibit the oxidation of ABTS 2 2 Azino di 3 ethylbenzthiazoline sulphonate in the presence of metmyoglobin using the Perkin Elmer Multi plate reader em 750 nm . The capacity of the antioxidants in the sample to prevent ABST oxidation was compared with known millimolar concentrations of Trolox a water soluble tocopherol analogue and all values were adjusted according the known amounts of protein present per sample.

Our findings indicate that the hydroxytyrosol containing formulations of the present invention accelerate the migration of human keratinocytes HMEC 1 and HUVEC cells cells following physical wounding. To simulate endothelial dysfunction associated with diabetic complications cells were pre treated with 30 mM glucose for 3 days prior to wounding. The findings indicated that glucose prolonged the time required for 50 of the wound to heal significantly. The hydroxytyrosol containing formulation had a pronounced protective effect on glucose induced endothelial cell dysfunction returning the time required to heal 50 of the wound to that similar to untreated cells. Further doxorubicin also induced endothelial cell dysfunction increasing the time required for 50 of the wound to heal to in untreated cells. As observed with the effects mediated by glucose the hydroxytyrosol containing formulation exhibited a pronounced protective effect. Treatment with the hydroxytyrosol containing formulation improved the wound healing response to that similar of the untreated cells.

Following investigations of total antioxidant capacity in PBMCs and K562 cells the results show hydroxytyrosol and hydroxytyrosol containing formulation 2 deplete total antioxidant capacity of the chronic myeloid leukemic cells and enhance the antioxidant capacity of the normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells . Furthermore this trend is reflected in the relative cell viability of the cells. Hydroxytyrosol and hydroxytyrosol containing Formulation 2 were found to significantly induce caspase 3 7 mediated apoptosis in malignant K562 cells.

Furthermore the results show hydroxytyrosol containing Formulations of the present invention increased tubule formation in HUVEC cells and had a prolonged effect in increased tube length up to 16 hours . Following investigations of total antioxidant capacity in PBMCs the results show Hydroxytyrosol Oleuropein and formulations containing both Hydroxytyrosol and Oleuropein significantly increased the total antioxidant of the cells. In addition hydroxytyrosol containing formulations restored the depleted antioxidant capacity of normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells induced by stress with high glucose and doxorubicin . The mRNA sequence and micro array analysis results in Table 7 are further summarized in Example 10 Table 8 below.

Phenolic compounds in olive hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein and hydroxytyrosol containing formulations protect muscle cells from damage.

Clonal embryonic ventricular H9c2 myoblasts that have been isolated from BDIX rat heart tissue and obtained from the European Culture Collection and grown in culture flasks in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM Gibco Invitrogen Carlsbad USA supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS In Vitro Technologies Victoria Australia antibody antimycotic containing 100 U mL Penicillin 100 g mL Streptomycin 0.25 g mL Amphotericin B Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA . The cells were incubated at a humidified atmosphere at 37 C. 5 CO. To induce myogenic transdifferentiation cells were cultured in DMEM containing 1 FBS for up to 9 days with the culture media replaced every two days. To induce cardiogenesis cells were cultured in DMEM containing 1 FBS in the presence of 10 nM all trans retinoic acid Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. USA for 7 days with the culture medium replaced daily. The murine skeletal myocyte cell line C2C12 and the murine smooth muscle cell line SMC were grown in low glucose DMEM and 10 FBS maintained at 37 C. and 5 COaccording to the recommendations of American Type Culture Collection. To induce differentiation the C2C12 myocytes were grown to 90 confluence before switching to a 2 FBS differentiation medium for 7 days with a daily media change.

Cells were pre treated with hydroxytyrosol dilution factor 1 200 M oleuropein dilution factor 1 50 M and hydroxytyrosol containing Formulation 2 dilution factor 4 Table 9 for 24 hours 37 C. 5 v v CO. In separate experiments cells were treated with hydroxytyrosol containing formulation 2 dilution factor 4 for 24 hours prior to 24 hour incubation with 1 mM HOor 0.5 M doxorubicin 37 C. 5 v v CO. Cell viability was measured using the Cell Titer Blue Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. USA as previously described.

Our findings indicate that the hydroxytyrosol containing Formulation of the invention stimulated proliferation of embryonic cardio myoblasts cardiomyocytes and smooth muscle cells. In addition the hydroxytyrosol containing Formulation of the invention displayed protective effects in prevented doxorubicin induced cell damage to the embryonic cardio myoblasts cardiomyocytes and smooth muscle cells. Furthermore antioxidants hydroxytyrosol and oleuropein displayed similar effects in all muscle cell lines .

Table 8 below summarizes the epigenetic effects induced by hydroxytyrosol according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. The listed genes correspond to the evidence from mRNA sequence and micro array analysis set out in Table 7.

Typically normal cells metabolize glucose by glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. In contrast even in the presence of oxygen proliferating and cancer cells exhibit an increased uptake of glucose and increased rate of glycolysis and predominantly undergo lactic acid fermentation. This phenomenon is known as the Warburg effect in honor of Otto Warburg who first made these observations in the 1920s. After a period of general lack of interest the field has recently become an intense focus of research. Indeed it is becoming evident that there is a strong correlation between gene expression and cancer metabolism. These studies utilized mRNA Sequencing and explored a Warburg gene set which was derived from the publicly available Cell Signaling Technology pathway map. The following were evaluated 1 changes in the expression of Warburg related genes in human erythroleukemic compared to normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 2 the effects of incubation of K562 cells on relevant genes.

Human chronic myelogenous leukemia K562 cells were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. USA and maintained in complete Royal Park Memorial Institute RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 20 mmol L HEPES pH 7.4 GIBCO Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS 2 mmol L L glutamine GIBCO Invitrogen and 80 units gentamicin GIBCO Invitrogen . Cells were cultured in suspension in a humidified atmosphere of 5 v v COat 37 C. and were maintained in exponential growth phase. For maintenance cells were passaged twice per week and seeded at ratios 1 10. Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs were fractionated using the Ficoll Plaque fractionation method from whole blood obtained from the Australian Red Cross Blood Bank ARCB under ethic approval 304 12 . Cells were harvested fresh on the day of the experiments and maintained in complete RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM L glutamine and 20 g mL gentamicin at 37 C. 5 v v CO.

Cells were seeded at densities of 1 10 mL in culture flasks Nalge Nunc New York USA and K562 cells were treated with or without 100 M hydroxytyrosol for 24 hours at 37 C. 5 v v CO. mRNA sequencing was performed by TRIZOL extraction and library preparation using Illumina kits according to manufacturer s protocols. Next generation sequencing NGS was performed at a depth of approximately 20 million mapped reads per sample. Reads generated by the Illumina base calling software V1.6 were aligned with Burrows Wheeler Aligner to the human transcriptome database curated by RefSeq Hg18 build . Raw counts were normalized to adjust for slightly differing data volume across lanes giving the widely used score reads per transcript per million reads. These scores were used to determine relative fold changes and the conventionally used 1.5 fold change which is discernible with qRT PCR was defined a significant change in expression. The online program MetaCore GeneGo Inc. St. Joseph Mich. USA was used for pathway analysis. The Warburg gene set shown in Table 10 was used to investigate changes in Warburg related genes in human erythroleukemic compared to normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells and changes in expression of Warburg related genes following incubation of K562 cells with hydroxytyrosol.

Previous in vitro investigations indicate that hydroxytyrosol induces cell death and apoptosis preferentially in malignant cells compared to normal cells. Using genome wide next generation sequencing mRNA Seq analysis this study investigated the Warburg related gene expression changes in erythroleukemic K562 cells compared to normal PBMC cells and K562 cells treated with 100 M hydroxytyrosol Table 10 . As anticipated the findings indicate that 51 genes of the total of 134 Warburg related genes 38 were significantly regulated in K562 cells compared to PBMC. Pre treatment of cells with hydroxytyrosol resulted in differential expression of 30 of these genes with 87 reversing expression towards that observed in PBMC cells. In accordance with the experimental data a pro apoptotic effect was observed following treatment with hydroxytyrosol. Preliminary interrogation of the data shows significant up regulation in the tumor suppressor gene TP53 tumor protein p53 1.91 fold change and the TP53 induced glycolysis and apoptosis regulator C12orf5 chromosome 12 open reading frame 5 in K562 cells following treatment with hydroxytyrosol. In addition a strong pro apoptotic affect was observed via the up regulation of caspases 4 7 and 8 and the p53 up regulated modulator of apoptosis BCL2 binding component 3 BBC3 by a fold change of 1.87 2.01 1.62 and 2.29 respectively. Further metabolic regulators PFKFB4 6 phosphofructo 2 kinase fructose 2 6 biphosphatase 4 PFKB2 6 phosphofructo 2 kinase fructose 2 6 biphosphatase 2 and ACLY ATP citrate lyase were down regulated by 1.79 1.53 and 1.59 fold change respectively Table 10 . Importantly down regulation of the iron transporter transferrin receptor 2 TRF2 which is involved in iron hemostasis growth and proliferation was significantly down regulated by hydroxytyrosol 1.9 fold .

The inventions being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the inventions.

