---

title: Engine health monitoring and power allocation control for a turbine engine using electric generators
abstract: A control for a turbine engine using electrical machines monitors engine health and allocates power extraction between the electrical machines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09593591&OS=09593591&RS=09593591
owner: Rolls-Royce North American Technologies, Inc.
number: 09593591
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
This application is a U.S. national counterpart application of international application serial No. PCT US2013 071885 filed Nov. 26 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 778 694 filed Mar. 13 2013. The entire disclosures of PCT US2013 071885 and U.S. Ser. No. 61 778 694 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to turbine engines and more specifically to power extraction and power management systems for multi shaft turbine engines.

Gas turbine engines are used to power aircraft watercraft power generators and the like. Gas turbine engines typically include a compressor a combustor and a turbine. A fan or propeller may be used to draw air into the engine. The compressor compresses the air and delivers higher pressure air to the combustor. In the combustor fuel is mixed with the higher pressure air and is ignited. Products of the combustion reaction in the combustor are directed into the turbine where work is extracted to drive the compressor and sometimes an output shaft. Left over products of the combustion are exhausted out of the turbine and may provide thrust in some applications.

In multi shaft turbine engines some of the engine components may drive or be driven by different shafts. Power can be extracted from these shafts to drive the components of the engine and or an electrical system. For example gas turbine engines may include a single gearbox mounted starter generator or PMA permanent magnet alternator used to provide power to the electrical systems.

Existing techniques for assessing engine health are performed off line. For example engine parameters may be monitored and recorded during operation and then compared to known trends and models after an operation has concluded i.e. at some predetermined maintenance interval.

The present application discloses one or more of the features recited in the appended claims and or the following features which alone or in any combination may comprise patentable subject matter.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a control for a turbine engine having a plurality of shafts and one or more electrical machines coupled to the shafts includes an engine health monitor to monitor the health of the turbine engine over time and a power allocation optimizer to allocate power extraction between the electrical machines based on the health of the turbine engine.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a method for controlling the allocation of power extracted from a plurality of shafts of a turbine engine where the shafts each have one or more electrical machines coupled thereto includes monitoring the health of the turbine engine over time and allocating power extraction between the electrical machines based on the health of the turbine engine. The method may include obtaining from the engine an indicator of current fuel flow to the engine and comparing the current fuel flow to a healthy engine profile. Any of the foregoing methods may include obtaining from one or more control units coupled to the electrical machines data relating to a current power extraction allocation and comparing the current power extraction allocation to a healthy engine profile. Any of the foregoing methods may include obtaining from the engine data relating to a current operating condition of the engine and adjusting the power extraction allocation based on the current operating condition.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a control for a turbine engine having a plurality of shafts and one or more electrical machines coupled to the shafts may be configured to perform any of the foregoing methods.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a system for controlling the extraction and allocation of power from a turbine engine includes a low pressure turbine coupled to the turbine engine via a low pressure shaft and configured to drive at least a fan of the turbine engine a high pressure turbine connected to the turbine engine via a high pressure shaft configured to drive at least a compressor of the turbine engine electrical machines coupled to the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft the electrical machines configured to extract rotational power from the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft and output electrical power control units coupled to each of the electrical machines to control the amount of rotational power extracted by the electrical machines from the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft and a power allocation optimizer to during operation of the turbine engine adjust the allocation of power extraction between the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft based at least in part on an indicator of the health of the engine. Embodiments of the system may be configured to perform any of the foregoing methods. Embodiments of any of the foregoing systems may include an engine health monitor in communication with the power allocation optimizer to assess engine health based on engine performance sensitivity to variations in shaft power extraction. In embodiments of any of the foregoing systems the power allocation optimizer may optimize engine cycle performance by varying electrical system controls.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a system for controlling the extraction and allocation of power from a turbine engine includes a low pressure turbine coupled to the turbine engine via a low pressure shaft and configured to drive at least a fan of the turbine engine a high pressure turbine connected to the turbine engine via a high pressure shaft configured to drive at least a compressor of the turbine engine electrical machines coupled to the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft the electrical machines configured to extract rotational power from the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft and output electrical power control units coupled to each of the electrical machines to control the amount of rotational power extracted by the electrical machines from the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft and an engine health monitor to assess engine health during operation of the engine based on performance sensitivity of the turbine engine to variations in power extraction from the shafts.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a method for controlling the allocation of power extracted from a plurality of shafts of a turbine engine the shafts having one or more electrical machines coupled thereto includes receiving via feedback control of the turbine engine data relating to one or more turbine engine operating conditions including fuel flow temperature pressure and or speed generating an assessment of the health of the turbine engine based on changes in the one or more operating conditions over time using a model based algorithm to predict a change in the health of the turbine engine based on the operating conditions and a healthy engine profile determining an optimal power extraction allocation between the electrical machines based on the predicted change in engine health the operating conditions and one or more optimization parameters including fuel efficiency engine performance and or engine reliability and controlling the electrical machines to implement the optimal power extraction.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a control for a turbine engine having a plurality of shafts and one or more electrical machines coupled to the shafts includes an engine health monitor to develop an assessment of the health of the turbine engine dynamically over time using real time feedback of sensed operating parameters from the turbine engine and a power allocation optimizer to vary the allocation of power extraction between the electrical machines dynamically in response to the assessment of the health of the turbine engine. The engine health monitor may detect a trend in the allocation of power extraction between the electrical machines over time and develops the assessment of the health of the turbine engine based on the trend.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a method for controlling the allocation of power extracted from a plurality of shafts of a turbine engine where the shafts have one or more electrical machines coupled thereto includes during operation of the turbine engine monitoring a plurality of operating parameters of the turbine engine over time assessing the health of the turbine engine over time based on the plurality of operating parameters as they are monitored and varying the allocation of power extraction between the electrical machines over time in response to the assessing of the health of the turbine engine.

According to at least one embodiment of this disclosure a method for controlling the allocation of power extracted from a plurality of shafts of a turbine engine where the shafts have one or more electrical machines coupled thereto includes during operation of the turbine engine receiving via feedback control of the turbine engine data relating to one or more turbine engine operating conditions including fuel flow temperature pressure and or speed generating an assessment of the health of the turbine engine based on changes in the one or more operating conditions over time using a model based algorithm to predict a change in the health of the turbine engine based on the operating conditions and a healthy engine profile determining an optimal power extraction allocation between the electrical machines based on the predicted change in engine health the operating conditions and one or more optimization parameters and controlling the electrical machines to implement the optimal power extraction.

The method may include varying the power extraction allocation between the electrical machines in response to the predicted change in the health of the turbine engine. In the method the electrical machines may include a low pressure generator shaft and a high pressure generator shaft and the method may include increasing the power extraction from the low pressure generator shaft and decreasing the power extraction from the high pressure generator shaft. The method may include transferring power from one of the shafts to the other shaft. The method may include determining the optimal power extraction allocation to optimize fuel efficiency engine performance or engine reliability. The method may include continuously varying the optimal power extraction allocation in response to power demands. The method may include continuously varying the optimal power extraction allocation in response to changes in the turbine engine operating conditions. A control for a turbine engine having a plurality of shafts and one or more electrical machines coupled to the shafts may be configured to perform any of the foregoing methods.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. It should be understood that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed. On the contrary the intent is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

Referring to an embodiment of a system for controlling the extraction and allocation of power from a turbine engine includes a power allocation optimizer . The power allocation optimizer is configured to optimize one or more optimization parameters e.g. efficiency performance reliability etc. of the turbine engine by varying the amount of power extracted from each shaft of the engine . In some embodiments the power allocation optimizer may be embodied in an engine controller which may be embodied as for example a Full Authority Digital Engine Controller or FADEC and or one or more generator control units . In other embodiments the power allocation optimizer may be embodied in a separate controller that is in communication with the system via one or more electronic communication links or networks. The optimizer utilizes real time feedback control and on line optimization to improve engine performance across a broad range of potential benefits. In some embodiments the optimizer incorporates engine health information obtained from an engine health monitor described in more detail below in its control techniques.

The illustrative turbine engine is a multi shaft turbofan gas turbine engine however aspects of the present disclosure are applicable to other types of multi shaft turbine engines including various types of turbofan and turboshaft systems. In the turbine engine a fan e.g. a fan variable pitch propeller etc. draws air into the engine . Some of the air may bypass other engine components and thereby generate propulsion thrust. The remaining air is forwarded to one or more compressors . For instance in some embodiments a low pressure compressor may increase the pressure of air received from the fan and a high pressure compressor may further increase the pressure of air received from the low pressure compressor. In any event the compressor s increase the pressure of the air and forward the higher pressure air to a combustion section . In the combustion section the pressurized air is mixed with fuel which is supplied to the combustion section by a fuel supply such as a fuel injector not shown . Typically a flow meter flow control valve or similar device e.g. a fuel flow sensor FF monitors and or regulates the flow of fuel into the combustion section . An igniter not shown is typically used to cause the mixture of air and fuel to combust. The high energy combusted air is directed to one or more turbines . In the illustrative embodiment a high pressure turbine is disposed in axial flow series with a low pressure turbine . The combusted air expands through the turbines causing them to rotate. The combusted air is then exhausted through e.g. a propulsion nozzle not shown which may generate additional propulsion thrust.

The rotation of the turbines causes the engine shafts to rotate. More specifically rotation of the low pressure turbine drives a low pressure shaft which drives the fan while rotation of the high pressure turbine drives a high pressure shaft which drives the compressor s . In some embodiments the shafts may be concentrically disposed. In some embodiments more than two shafts may be provided. For example in some embodiments an intermediate shaft is disposed concentrically between the low pressure shaft and the high pressure shaft and supports an intermediate pressure compressor and turbine. In such embodiments the power allocation optimizer controls the power allocation among all of the available shafts in a similar manner to that described herein.

The illustrative turbines additionally drive one or more electrical machines via respective power take off assemblies . The low pressure turbine drives a generator via the low pressure shaft and the power take off assembly . The high pressure turbine drives a motor generator via the high pressure shaft and the power take off assembly . The electrical machines can generate power which may be supplied to an aircraft electrical system for example. For instance the generator may generate electrical power that is supplied to other components or systems of the aircraft or other vehicle to which it is coupled. The motor generator may operate similarly but may additionally have a motor mode in which it receives electrical energy from for example the aircraft electrical system and converts the received electrical energy into rotational power which is then supplied to the high pressure turbine via the power take off assembly .

The engine controller controls the overall operation of the engine . For example the engine controller controls the rate of fuel flow to the combustion section as well as the airflow through the engine e.g. by varying the pitch angle of vanes of the fan . The engine controller receives signals from a number of different sensors which are installed at various locations on the engine to sense various physical parameters such as temperature T shaft speed SS air pressure P and fuel flow FF which represent various aspects of the current operating condition of the engine . The sensors supply electrical signals representing the sensed information to the engine controller and or the power allocation optimizer . In response to the sensor signals the engine controller supplies various commands to the engine to control various aspects of the operation of the engine .

The power allocation optimizer communicates with the engine controller to obtain the parameters sensed by the sensors or otherwise obtains those parameters e.g. via an electrical communication link or network over time. Based on the changes in the current operating conditions over time as reflected in the sensed parameter data values which may indicate among other things the current power extraction allocation between the shafts the power allocation optimizer makes an inference about or determines an assessment of the current state of the engine s level of degradation or engine health . To do this the power allocation optimizer may compare the data values representing the current operating conditions that are indicators of engine health to an engine health profile e.g. using a lookup table or apply a mathematical formula or model to the current data values to arrive at an estimation of the current level of degradation for example.

Based on the currently determined level of degradation engine health the power allocation optimizer determines a new optimal power allocation between the two shafts in accordance with an optimization objective e.g. component life fuel efficiency etc. . For example if the changes over time in the monitored operating conditions indicate that the system is favoring or beginning to favor the low pressure shaft over the high pressure shaft the optimizer may infer that a turbine coupled to the high pressure shaft has experienced some degradation and or may calculate an estimated amount of such degradation. Based on the estimated amount of performance degradation the power allocation optimizer may calculate a new optimal power allocation between the two shafts . The optimal power allocation may be the same as or different than the current or previously calculated power allocation depending on for example the optimization objective. For instance in normal operation the power extraction initially may be allocated disproportionately to one of the shafts e.g. 85 horsepower drawn from the high pressure shaft and 15 horsepower hp drawn from the low pressure shaft for optimal fuel efficiency or other reasons. As the engine ages the efficiency of the high pressure shaft may decrease. As a result the power allocation optimizer may shift the power allocation to increase the power extracted from the low pressure shaft e.g. toward a 50 hp 50 hp split of power extraction from the shafts in order to reduce the load on the high pressure shaft and thereby extend the life of the high pressure shaft by reducing the rate of wear on the high pressure shaft . The power allocation optimizer may be configured to optimize any of a number of different performance metrics including fuel efficiency component life and or others. For example if fuel efficiency is considered of higher importance than component life the power allocation optimizer may determine a different optimal power allocation between the shafts than it would if component life were the priority.

The power allocation optimizer sends commands e.g. control signals to the generator control units to implement the dynamically determined optimal power allocation as it changes over time based on the dynamically determined engine health parameters. For example based on a current estimation of engine health the power allocation optimizer may determine a percentage of power extraction for each shaft e.g. 55 for the low pressure shaft and 45 for the high pressure shaft . The generator control units then command the generators to extract the appropriate load e.g. a torque value or ratio such as 10 horsepower 20 horsepower from the respective shafts . Illustratively the power allocation optimizer seeks a power allocation to result in optimal fuel efficiency and thus seeks to minimize the fuel flow parameter. In other embodiments other parameters or a combination of different parameters may be optimized such as temperature available power and other parameters to optimize performance reliability or other objectives.

The generator control units configure the generators respectively. That is the generator control units adjust the operating parameters of the generators to vary the amount of rotational mechanical energy that the generators draw from the shafts respectively. For instance the generator control unit may configure the generator to either generate electrical energy or not generate electrical energy based on current operating conditions. Similarly the generator control unit may configure the motor generator to operate either in motor mode in which it converts electrical energy to rotational power or generator mode in which it generates electrical energy from rotational power or neither of the above based on current operating conditions. Additionally the generator control units control the amount of electrical energy that is generated by the generators respectively based on control signals received from the power allocation optimizer . Adjustments in the amount of electrical energy supplied by the generators may vary based on the amount of electrical energy demanded by the aircraft electrical system and or the desired amount of engine power as determined by for example performance or fuel efficiency considerations. These and or other factors can be used by the power allocation optimizer to determine an appropriate division of power extraction across the shafts . The power allocation optimizer thus acts in cooperation with the engine controller and the generator control units to control the amount of rotational energy that the motors generators extract from the shafts respectively.

Referring now to an embodiment of the power allocation optimizer embodies a control technique for turbine engines with electric motor generators coupled to the low pressure LP and high pressure HP shafts and intermediate pressure IP shaft s if present. The power allocation optimizer manages the amount of electric power that is produced by either electrical machine so that the engine is always operating at its optimum operating point. When extracting electrical power from a multi shaft turbine engine engine efficiency performance or reliability for instance can be optimized by varying the amount of power extracted from either shaft . At certain points in the operating envelope one shaft may be more efficient than another so the optimum power extraction allocation constantly varies depending on the operating point and total power demand.

The control method employed by the embodiment of the power allocation optimizer uses both model based algorithms and real time feedback from the engine to execute a run time on line optimization that continuously tunes the power extracted from either shaft according to desired optimization parameters e.g. performance fuel efficiency reliability etc. and using an engine health prediction produced by the engine health monitor to maximize the benefit to the engine while still meeting the power demands of the aircraft or other vehicle in which the engine is employed. In some cases the control algorithm may specify alternatively or in addition an amount of power to be transferred between shafts e.g. from one shaft to another shaft . The optimization parameters can be set to maximize fuel efficiency component life and reliability or engine performance metrics such as power available or surge margin according to the requirements of a particular design or operating scenario.

Naturally as a mechanical system the engine s performance and or efficiency may degrade over time due to wear and tear. As a result over time the optimum power allocation across the shafts may change such that the optimum power allocation for an aged engine may be different than that of a new engine. The power allocation optimizer uses parameters such as fuel flow temperature pressure and or shaft speed the corresponding data values of which are representative of current operating conditions and which are obtained by the controller via feedback from the engine to continuously monitor the engine s performance and health. Further the power allocation optimizer can compensate for the changes in engine performance and or engine health over time. Using the feedback from the engine the power allocation optimizer can optimize the performance for any input or operating conditions as they change over time.

The power allocation optimizer can be implemented as a control algorithm that schedules power extractions from the generators . In some embodiments the power allocation optimizer can be implemented completely independent of the engine controller and or the generator control units because the illustrative power allocation optimizer does not have direct control over the engine s operation or the operation of the generators . However in some embodiments the power allocation optimizer may be implemented as a part of these controls as well as it may share many input data signals that feed to these other control units. The control algorithm can thus allow for improvements in fuel efficiency reliability life and performance on engines with electric motor generators coupled to multiple engine shafts. Engine performance can be continuously optimized throughout the engine s life leading to for example longer time in operation e.g. time on wing and reduced cost of maintenance and servicing.

Referring now to additional details of the power allocation optimizer are illustrated. illustrates an example of a typical operating map for the compressor . In it can be seen that electrical power sharing between two shaft mounted generators can yield favorable results such as higher fuel efficiency increased surge margin and improved transient stability. The generators on each shaft respectively can be used to alter the operating point of the engine e.g. the amount of airflow at some pressure ratio yielding thrust by varying the amount of power extraction or power transfer between the shafts to for example push the engine s operating point back to a more desirable condition. In the optimal point is closer to the middle of the concentric circular bands for optimal fuel efficiency. In accordance with the power allocation optimizer can determine an optimal power allocation using for example a gradient based optimization technique that can account for the features of a continuously variable system which may include e.g. altitude and operating condition changes aircraft weight changes which may change thrust demand and or fluctuating power demands. The illustrative technique seeks an optimal power allocation but does not fully converge so that it continues to seek a new optimum as the inputs change over time. This is in contrast to a static table of lookup values which cannot respond to changes in the engine s operating point over time. Further the illustrative technique filters out very noisy data e.g. sensor noise . illustrates how the optimization algorithm may step down over time seeking the optimum power allocation for fuel efficiency. Once the optimal point is found the optimizer can control the power allocation by sending a command to one or more of the generator control units to achieve the optimum fuel flow.

In an example of the effect of the power allocation optimizer on fuel flow to the engine is shown. In particular the plot shows that as the optimizer changes the allocation of power taken from the shafts fuel efficiency is increased. Under normal operating conditions fuel flow constantly decreases over time due to decreasing thrust demand as the aircraft weight decreases. The optimizer adjusts the percentage of power take from either shaft or shaft to find the lowest fuel usage. From the plot it can be seen that for instantaneous points A and B B uses less fuel than A. However this may be due to better power sharing allocation or just sensor noise and lower thrust demand. By taking the derivative of time averaged samples and making some assumptions of the surface being locally planar during small time periods the optimizer can determine that the instantaneous point C has the greatest improvement in fuel flow and set the new optimal power allocation accordingly.

Referring to the plot shown therein illustrates how the system may respond to the optimizer commanded values. As shown the optimizer can enforce limits of the system whether they may be due to the requirements or specifications of the engine or one or more of the generators . More generally the optimizer can intelligently control power extraction allocation to minimize fuel burn under any operating conditions and can adapt to different unique engine builds. As such the same logic can be applied across a wide variety of engine models.

When electrical power is extracted from a multi shaft turbine engine engine efficiency or performance can be changed by varying the amount of power extracted from either shaft. At certain points in the operating envelope one shaft may be more efficient than another so the effect that the power extraction has is constantly variable depending on the operating point and condition of the engine. As the engine ages and wears these trends will begin to shift and favor different power allocations depending on how the components are deteriorating in the engine. By trending the changes in the optimal power allocations between the shafts over time and comparing those changes to a baseline engine model e.g. a healthy engine profile a prediction can be made as to the current health of the engine. For instance once an inference as to the engine s current degradation is made e.g. based on a power extraction allocation that favors the low pressure shaft over the high pressure shaft the engine health monitor can apply the engine model e.g. healthy engine profile to better predict the time to the next maintenance event or time to failure. These predictions can be communicated by the engine health monitor or some other component of the system to the vehicle operator maintenance staff and or others by a electronic communication link visual display or audio notification for instance.

As an example for an engine with a given customer load of 100 horsepower a new engine may show peak efficiency extracting 85 horsepower from the HP shaft e.g. shaft and the remaining 15 from the LP shaft e.g. shaft . However as the engine ages the HP turbines e.g. high pressure turbines will generally wear faster than other components leading to a decrease in high pressure turbine efficiency. As a result the engine will shift to favor LP power extraction more perhaps leading to more of a 50 horsepower split on each shaft. This shift can be measured and recorded using for example run time gradient based optimization techniques. The measured shift can be compared to recorded data and model based health estimations to arrive at a predictive assessment of engine health.

In some embodiments based on the wear characteristics of the engine the engine health monitor provides information that allows the power allocation optimizer to compensate for the anticipated engine deterioration by changing how the power is extracted from either shaft . The optimizer can change the power extraction allocation in a way that continues to optimize for efficiency or other performance metrics. Alternatively or in addition the optimizer can compensate for the increased deterioration on the HP shaft by further increasing the load on the LP shaft therefore further reducing the load on the HP shaft and thus reducing the rate of wear and extending the life of the HP shaft .

Referring now to an embodiment of the engine health monitor provides engine health monitoring and prognostics by monitoring the efficiency of the engine as it relates to electrical power extraction. While shown in as a sub module of the power allocation optimizer the engine health monitor may be embodied in the engine controller or as stand alone unit for example in other embodiments. The engine health monitor monitors the health of the engine by looking at fuel efficiency or another desired optimization parameter as it compares to variable power extraction from either of the engine shafts . The engine health monitor may be embodied as a method of using real time feedback of operating conditions from the turbine engine to determine the health of the engine and or one or more components of the engine or of the system . The engine health monitor receives and analyzes data relating to the turbine engines and its electric motor generators coupled to the LP and HP shafts and the IP shaft if present . Some embodiments of the engine health monitor utilize an on line or real time optimization and control algorithm as described further below.

The engine health monitoring control method uses the existing engine feedback parameters along with efficiency calculations provided by the model based control algorithms to provide engine health predictions . These trends will be different for each engine and operating condition but the data for any engine can be gathered in a test cell and then incorporated into the model based engine health monitoring algorithms. On a system that is already carrying multiple generators and the required controls and sensors this added logic may only require a small amount of additional data storage to implement.

Better engine health monitoring and prognostics may allow for improved prediction of the condition of the engine and may allow for increased operational time e.g. on wing time by making it less likely that an engine would be removed from service based on hours or service or number of cycles alone. The ability to have feedback about the engine s health in real time may help prevent servicing of an engine until it is actually required. Further the engine health diagnostics can be done automatically by e.g. the engine controller during operation of the engine .

Referring now to aspects of the engine health monitor are illustrated. In a change in optimal power sharing over time as an engine ages is shown. For example high pressure components may tend to deteriorate faster causing the low pressure components to be favored. Thus the bias toward the use of low pressure components e.g. the shaft for power generation can be used as an indicator of engine deterioration. In the fuel flow curve for a new engine as power allocation changes from favoring the high pressure shaft to favoring the low pressure shaft is compared with the same curve for a deteriorated engine. As shown the changes in fuel flow over time in relation to power allocation between the shafts in comparison to a new or healthy engine profile can be used as an indicator of engine deterioration.

Referring now to a simplified block diagram of an exemplary controller in which the power allocation optimizer and the engine health monitor may be embodied is shown. The controller includes at least one processor e.g. a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor etc. memory and an input output I O subsystem . The controller and or portions thereof may be embodied in a control unit of the engine or may be distributed among multiple components of the system for example.

The I O subsystem typically includes among other things an I O controller a memory controller and one or more I O ports. The processor and the I O subsystem are communicatively coupled to the memory . The memory may be embodied as any type of suitable computer memory device e.g. volatile memory such as various forms of random access memory .

The I O subsystem is communicatively coupled to one or more storage media the power allocation optimizer and communication circuitry . The storage media may include any suitable data storage device e.g. flash memory memory cards etc. . The storage media may store data relating to engine operating conditions engine health predictions generated by the engine health monitor and one or more engine health profiles which may be used by the engine health monitor to determine or predict engine health in terms of for example a degree of healthiness or deterioration. The communication circuitry may include any suitable electronic communications link bus or network and may be configured to communicate control signals from the power allocation optimizer to for example the generator control units and or to communicate engine operating parameters from the engine and or sensors to the power allocation optimizer . The controller may include other components sub components and devices not illustrated in for clarity of the description. In general the components of the controller are communicatively coupled as shown in by electronic signal paths which may be embodied as any type of wired or wireless signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the respective devices and components.

In the foregoing description numerous specific details examples and scenarios are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. Further such examples and scenarios are provided for illustration and are not intended to limit the disclosure in any way. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions should be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to an embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is believed to be within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly indicated.

Embodiments in accordance with the disclosure may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments may also be implemented as instructions stored using one or more machine readable media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine. For example a machine readable medium may include any suitable form of volatile or non volatile memory.

Modules data structures and the like defined herein are defined as such for ease of discussion and are not intended to imply that any specific implementation details are required. For example any of the described modules and or data structures may be combined or divided into sub modules sub processes or other units of computer code or data as may be required by a particular design or implementation of the system .

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements may be shown for ease of description. However the specific ordering or arrangement of such elements is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required in all embodiments. In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks or modules may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction and each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools or frameworks. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or data structure. Further some connections relationships or associations between elements may be simplified or not shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure.

This disclosure is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character and all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the disclosure are desired to be protected.

