---

title: User interface for a tele-operated robotic hand system
abstract: Disclosed here is a user interface for a robotic hand. The user interface anchors a user's palm in a relatively stationary position and determines various angles of interest necessary for a user's finger to achieve a specific fingertip location. The user interface additionally conducts a calibration procedure to determine the user's applicable physiological dimensions. The user interface uses the applicable physiological dimensions and the specific fingertip location, and treats the user's finger as a two link three degree-of-freedom serial linkage in order to determine the angles of interest. The user interface communicates the angles of interest to a gripping-type end effector which closely mimics the range of motion and proportions of a human hand. The user interface requires minimal contact with the operator and provides distinct advantages in terms of available dexterity, work space flexibility, and adaptability to different users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989902&OS=08989902&RS=08989902
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08989902
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130423
---
This patent application claims priority from provisional patent application 61 772 750 filed Mar. 5 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance LLC.

One or more embodiments refer to a user interface for the teleoperation of a robotic hand. The user interface conducts a calibration procedure to determine a user s applicable physiological dimensions and applies the physiological dimensions and a specific fingertip location to treat the user s finger as a two link three degree of freedom serial linkage in order to determine angles of interest through reverse kinematics. The user interface communicates the angles of interest to a gripping type end effector which closely mimics the range of motion and proportions of a human hand.

Teleoperation involves operation of a machine at a distance and is commonly associated with robotics. Early applications were originally intended for manipulation of radioactive biohazardous or otherwise inaccessible materials using robotic arms however in more recent developments they have been used in applications such as robotically assisted surgery and in space.

A particular variety of teleoperated devices utilize user control of a gripping type end effector intended to closely approximate the digits of a human hand. Typically these gripping type end effectors are designed to replicate the hand motion and posture of the controlling operator. Correspondingly commonly used mechanical human machine interfaces include a variety of devices worn by the operator such as exoskeletal mechanical devices instrumented gloves motion tracking sensors or muscular activity sensors. These devices inevitably require direct or close contact with the operator and as a result may hinder dexterous human motion due to the presence of sensors attached cables or other instruments associated with the interface. Other mechanical human machine interfaces have involved approaches such as dials joysticks a computer mouse or computer graphical interfaces however these require unnatural operator motions which do not directly translate to the motions of the gripping type end effector itself. This situation greatly limits the realizable dexterity of the gripping type end effector that may be unnatural and must be learned

Natural movements are important elements in using teleoperated equipment if complex and speedy manipulation tasks are to be accomplished particularly if the manipulation is required to take place in hazardous environments such as hot cells glove boxes explosives disarmament space and others. It would be advantageous to provide a user interface requiring minimal contact with the operator in order to allow for a wide working space and range of motions. It would be additionally advantageous if such an interface could operate in a manner that adapts to each specific user through calibration in order to accommodate the wide range of hand physiologies that might be encountered among differing operators. Such an interface would provide distinct advantages in terms of available dexterity work space flexibility and adaptability of different users.

Disclosed here is a user interface for a robotic hand intended to monitor and discern the posture of a user s hand during typical grasping and or manipulation motions based on tracking the locations of the user s fingertips relative to some fixed reference point. The user interface substantially anchors a user s palm in a relatively stationary position and relay various angles of interest to a robotic hand having substantially the same configuration and proportions. The user interface acts to anchor the user s palm in a relatively stationary position and orientation conducts a calibration procedure to determine the user s applicable physiological dimensions and determines the angles associated with the metacarpophalangeal MCP and proximal interphalangeal PIP joints of the user s finger necessary to achieve the specific fingertip location. The user interface communicates the respective angles to a gripping type end effector which will typically closely mimic the user s available range of motion and a typical human proportion.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The user interface monitors the motions and posture of a user s hand during typical grasping and or manipulation motions and relays various angles of interest to a robotic hand having substantially the same configuration and proportions. The user interface anchors a user s palm in a relatively stationary position and tracks the locations of the user s fingertips relative to some fixed reference point.

The user interface initially conducts a calibration procedure to determine an overall length of a user s finger from the fingertip to the MCP joint and determine appropriate lengths for the proximate intermediate and distal phalange lengths specific to the user. With this information the user interface determines MCP and PIP angles of the user s finger when a specific fingertip location is reported. A digital controller is configured to receive the specific fingertip location and conduct reverse kinematics to determine the specific angles. The digital controller treats the distal interphalangeal DIP joint as passive and treats the user finger as a two link three degree of freedom serial linkage having links equal to the lengths determined during the calibration procedure. In an embodiment the digital controller communicates the respective angles to a robotic hand having proportions commensurate with the average proportions of a human hand.

In an embodiment the user interface is further comprised of a wrist and elbow assembly mimicking the range of motion available in a human arm. In this embodiment the digital controller additionally performs a calibration produce to discern the forearm and arm lengths of an individual user and determines necessary shoulder and elbow joint angles based on reported wrist locations in a process similar to that implemented for the finger size determinations discussed above.

The user interface requires minimal contact with the operator and allows for a wide working space and range of motions. The user interface further adapts to each specific user in order to accommodate the wide range of hand physiologies that might be encountered among differing operators. Correspondingly the user interface provides distinct advantages in terms of available dexterity work space flexibility and adaptability to different users.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a user interface for a teleoperated robotic hand system where the user interface acts to infer the MCP and PIP angle of a human operator based on fingertip location.

The user interface is intended to monitor the motions and posture of a user s hand during typical grasping and or manipulation motions and relay various angles of interest to a robotic hand having substantially the same configuration and proportions. The user interface acts to anchor the user s palm in a relatively stationary position and orientation and track the locations of the user s fingertips relative to some fixed reference point. The user interface initially conducts a calibration procedure based on reported fingertip locations in order to determine an overall length of a user s finger from the fingertip to the MCP joint and determine appropriate lengths for the proximate intermediate and distal phalange lengths specific to the user. With this information the user interface determines MCP and PIP angles of the user s finger necessary to achieve a specific fingertip location reported and communicates this information to the robotic hand. In this manner the general motions and posture of a user s hand may be reproduced by the robotic hand. The particular interface has the advantage of adapting to a specific user through the calibration procedure and reporting the user finger angles without direct measurement of the joints of the user s finger allowing for increased freedom and precision of movement.

Some principles of the user interface are illustrated at . illustrates a user s hand placed on a palm anchoring section and further illustrates a finger the proximal phalange of finger the intermediate phalange of finger and the distal phalange of finger . Additionally illustrated is MCP joint and PIP joint of finger where user proximal phalange length extends from MCP joint and PIP joint . At the hand is maintained in contact with palm anchoring section and is generally stable so that the location of MCP joint is relatively constant as the finger may be moved during for example a finger adduction or abduction. Additionally as is understood finger also possesses a DIP joint not shown between intermediate phalange and distal phalange which enables additional flexure and compliance.

Additionally illustrated at is fingertip locator located generally at the fingertip of finger . User intermediate distal phalange length extends from PIP joint to fingertip locator . Fingertip locator maintains contact with the fingertip of finger so that motion and relocation of finger generates corresponding motion and relocation of fingertip locator . A digital controller is in data communication with fingertip locator through connection . Fingertip locator communicates indications of a specific fingertip location to digital controller where the specific fingertip location is relative to a fixed reference point such as reference point P. With fingertip locator maintaining contact with the fingertip of finger the specific fingertip location communicated to digital controller is representative of the fingertip location of finger .

Fingertip locator may be any means sufficient to determine a specific fingertip location relative to the fixed reference point. For example in a specific embodiment fingertip locator is a specific mechanical linkage connecting finger locator to palm anchoring section as will be discussed. However other means may be used without violating the spirit of this disclosure. For example fingertip locator may be a visual marker system an electromagnetic tracking system or others systems sufficient to report a fingertip location with respect to a fixed reference point. See e.g. Zhuang et al. Decoding 3 D Reach and Grasp Kinematics From High Frequency Local Field Potentials in Primate Primary Motor Cortex 57 7 2010 see also Schaffelhofer et al. A new method of accurate hand and arm tracking for small primates 9 2012 see also Kofman et al. Teleoperation of a Robot Manipulator Using a Vision Based Human Robot Interface 52 5 2005 among others.

Digital controller is a digital computer system that can be programmed to conduct the calibration procedure and determine at least a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle according to the methods of this disclosure as will be discussed. Any digital computer system may be employed provided that the digital computer is capable of performing operations as described. Once the digital computer is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software that implements the operations and methods disclosed such digital computer systems in effect become special purpose computers particular to the disclosure. The techniques necessary for programming a digital computer to conduct the calibration procedure and determine at least a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle according to the methods of this disclosure are well known to those skilled in the art of computer systems. Such programming may be stored in a storage medium such as distribution media intermediate storage media the execution memory of a computer or any other medium or device capable of storing for later reading by a digital computer implementing the operations and methods disclosed. When such a program is to be run they may be loaded from the storage medium into the execution memory of the digital computer configuring the digital computer to act in accordance with the operations and method disclosed. Such operations are well known to those skilled in the art of computer systems.

Digital controller is configured to receive the indications of the specific fingertip location and conduct reverse kinematics using at least the specific fingertip location the location of MCP joint the proximal phalange length and intermediate distal phalange length as will be discussed. Digital controller treats the DIP joint not shown between intermediate phalange and distal phalange as passive and analyzes finger as a two link three degree of freedom serial linkage having a first link equal in length to user proximal phalange length between MCP joint and PIP joint and having a second link equal in length to user intermediate distal phalange length between PIP joint and fingertip locator . The DIP joint may be assumed to have any joint angle consistent with the possible motion of finger . Typically the DIP joint is treated as assuming an orientation that achieves less than about a 30 joint angle for distal phalange relative to intermediate phalange . Digital controller treats the DIP joint as establishing a constant joint angle for distal phalange relative to intermediate phalange at all specific fingertip locations reported by fingertip locator . Digital controller receives the indications of the specific fingertip location and conducts reverse kinematics to discern a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle necessary for a given user to achieve the specific fingertip location based on the results of the calibration procedure conducted. Digital controller outputs the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle to a data port comprising digital controller . The user interface thereby detects the specific fingertip location and provides information describing the necessary physical action of the user s finger.

The data port comprising digital controller may further communicate the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle to a device providing a representation of the user s finger. In an embodiment the device is a robotic hand controller controlling a robotic finger where the robotic finger has at least a robotic MCP joint and a robotic PIP joint. The robotic finger may be a physical object where the robotic MCP joint and a robotic PIP joint are joined by physical robotic lengths or may be a non physical representation such as an image provided that the robotic MCP joint and a robotic PIP joint comprise some portion of the image.

In order to conduct reverse kinematics using the specific fingertip location the location of MCP joint the proximal phalange length and the intermediate distal phalange length digital controller is programmed to conduct a calibration process in order to determine a user MCP joint location relative to the fixed reference point a user proximal phalange length and a user intermediate distal phalange length. The digital controller is configured to receive a plurality of calibration point locations from fingertip locator and where each calibration point location in the plurality has a unique location relative to fixed reference point P and where the quantity of calibration points is at least equal to four. Utilizing the plurality of calibration locations the digital controller determines the center of a calibration sphere. The calibration sphere as described herein is a sphere having a calibration sphere radius and calibration sphere center defining a calibration sphere surface. The calibration sphere is defined such that each calibration point location in the plurality of calibration point locations is displaced from the calibration sphere surface by no more than 10 of the calibration sphere radius. Once the calibration sphere is defined the digital controller establishes the location of the user MCP joint at the center of the defined calibration sphere. Additionally the digital controller defines a user finger length by assuming that a user s finger is maintained substantially straight during generation of the plurality of calibration points and sets the user finger length equal to a value within 95 to 105 of the calibration sphere radius.

The digital controller defines the calibration sphere by treating the plurality of calibration point locations as point cloud data and determining a best fit sphere using known fitting techniques such as least squares fitting m estimation or other techniques. See e.g. Flory et al. Fitting curves and surfaces to point clouds in the presence of obstacles Computer Aided Geometric Design 26 2009 and references therein see also Zhou et al. Sphere Target Fitting of Point Cloud Data Based on M estimation fskd vol. 1 pp. 296 299 2009 Sixth International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery 2009 and references therein see also Taubin Estimation of Planar Curves Surfaces and Nonplanar Space Curves Defined by Implicit Equations with Applications to Edge and Range Image Segmentation Vol. 13 11 1991 and references therein among others. In an embodiment the best fit sphere is a sphere having a calibration surface that intersects at least four calibration point locations as will be discussed. The digital controller may determine the best fit sphere by utilizing commercially available existing software packages capable of determining best fit spheres from point cloud data such as MATLAB available from The MathWorks Inc. Nattick Mass. USA among others. The specific means by which the digital controller determines the best fit sphere is not limiting provided that the digital controller establishes the calibration sphere as a best fit sphere where each calibration point location in the plurality of calibration point locations is displaced from the calibration sphere surface by no more than 10 of the calibration sphere radius.

In an embodiment the digital controller selects four calibration point locations from the plurality of calibration point locations ensures that at least three of the four points are non collinear and that all four of the points are not co planer and defines the calibration sphere as a sphere having a calibration surface that intersects each of the four calibration point locations. In an embodiment each of the four calibration point locations is displaced from every other calibration point location of the four by at least inch. As an example illustrates a plurality of four calibration point locations and located by digital controller based on indications provided by fingertip locator through connection . As illustrated each of the four calibration point locations describes a unique location relative to fixed reference point P. Digital controller utilizes the four calibration point locations and and defines the calibration sphere shown partially at . The calibration sphere is a sphere having a surface that intersects each of the four calibration point locations in the plurality of calibration points.

Having defined the calibration sphere digital controller establishes the location of user MCP joint based on the center of the calibration sphere. Digital controller additionally defines a user finger length by assuming that a user s finger is maintained substantially straight during generation of the plurality of calibration points and establishes the user finger length as equal to 95 to 105 of the radius of the calibration sphere and preferably equal to the radius of the calibration sphere. Digital controller proceeds to divide the user finger length into a first length and a second length and establishes user proximal phalange length equal to the first length and user intermediate distal phalange length equal to the second length such that user proximal phalange length added to user intermediate distal phalange length is equal to 95 to 105 of the user finger length and preferably equal to the user finger length.

As used herein the phrase defining a center of a calibration sphere means treating the plurality of calibration point locations as point cloud data and determining a best fit sphere using known fitting techniques such as least squares fitting m estimation or other techniques. Additionally calibration sphere radius means the radius of the calibration sphere. Additionally the phrase determining a user finger length based on the calibration sphere radius means establishing the user finger length as equal to a value within 95 to 105 of the value of the calibration sphere radius. Additionally the phrase dividing the user finger length into a first length and a second length based on the user finger length means establishing a first length and a second length such that the first length plus the second length is greater than or equal to 0.95 times the user finger length and less than or equal to 1.05 times the user finger length.

In an embodiment the first length and the second length are established based on the average proportions of a human hand and the digit of the hand used for the calibration procedure. In this embodiment a user length ratio L L L is equal to an average proximal phalange length Ldivided by the sum of an average distal phalange length Ladded to an average intermediate phalange length L. The average distal phalange length the average intermediate phalange length and the average proximal phalange length for the appropriate digit are taken from which illustrates a user hand with digits designated as I II III IV and V and associated average lengths in millimeters. In an additional embodiment when the digit of the hand used for the calibration procedure is a thumb digit I the first length and the second length are established based on a thumb user length ratio L L L where Lis the digit I average metacarpal length Lis the digit I average proximal phalange length and Lis the digit I average distal phalange length. In these embodiments the first length divided by the second length is within 10 of the user length ratio for the specific digit and preferably equal to the user length ratio for the specific digit. Establishing the first length and the second length based on the average proportions of the human hand and the digit used for the calibration procedure allows user proximal phalange length and user intermediate distal phalange length to closely mimic the anatomy of a finger in contact with and imparting motion to a fingertip locator.

As used herein the phrase user length ratio means an average proximal phalange length of a specific digit divided by the sum of an average distal phalange length of the specific digit added to an average intermediate phalange length of the specific digit where the specific digit is designated as I II III IV and V at and where the average proximal phalange length of the specific digit the average distal phalange length of the specific digit and the average intermediate phalange length of the specific digit is established according to the table at .

In operation the plurality of calibration points will typically be generated by a user placing a palm on palm anchoring section and moving a fingertip in contact with fingertip locator to various locations while fingertip locator communicates with digital controller . As is understood maintaining the user s finger substantially straight while the fingertip is moved to various locations improves the accuracy of the calibration. Similarly maintaining the palm at a stationary position on palm anchoring section while the fingertip is moved to various locations improves the accuracy of the calibration.

Having conducted the calibration procedure and thereby determined the location of user MCP joint user proximal phalange length and user intermediate distal phalange length digital controller is programmed to read a specific fingertip location relative to fixed reference point P from fingertip locator and determine the two MCP angles and the PIP angle necessary to achieve the specific fingertip location. The two MCP angles and the PIP angle determined generally reflect the posture of a user s finger such as finger when achieving a specific fingertip location. Digital controller communicates the two MCP angles and the PIP angle to data port .

The digital controller determines the two MCP angles and the PIP angle by defining a user planar linkage comprised of a first link and a second link as illustrated at . At the user planar linkage is comprised of first link having a length equal to the user proximal phalange length determined during the calibration procedure. A first end of first link is located at the location of the user MCP joint determined during the calibration procedure and is anchored at the location of the user MCP joint by universal joint . Universal joint has two 2 rotational degrees of freedom where the first rotational degree of freedom is a rotation about user x axis X and the second rotational degree of freedom is a rotation about a user y axis Y and where the user x axis Xis perpendicular to the user y axis Y. A coordinate system illustrating the relationship between the user y axis Y the user x axis X and a user z axis Z is included at for reference where the user x axis Xproceeds out of the page and where the user z axis Zis perpendicular to the user y axis Yand the user x axis X. Additionally a second end of the first link is pinned at revolute joint . Revolute joint is a single degree of freedom joint allowing rotation about a single rotation axis where the single rotation axis is perpendicular to the user y axis Y. For illustration the user planar linkage is additionally indicated at rotated 90 as indicated by the coordinate system illustrating the user y axis Y the user x axis X and a user z axis Z where the user y axis Yproceeds out of the page. At revolute joint allows rotation about the single rotation axis S where single rotation axis S is perpendicular to the user y axis Y.

The user planar linkage defined by the digital controller is further comprised of second link having a length equal to the user intermediate distal phalange length determined during the calibration procedure. A first end of second link is pinned at revolute joint and a second end of second link is located at the specific fingertip location of fingertip locator . As a result of revolute joint and universal joint the user planar linkage comprised of first link and second link is constrained to motion in user linkage motion plane P where user linkage motion plane Pis a single plane and where the user y axis Yis either parallel to or residing within user linkage motion plane P depending on where the origin of the X Y Zcoordinate system is located. At the user linkage motion plane Pis a plane intersecting universal joint first link revolute joint second link and the specific fingertip location of fingertip locator as illustrated.

Having defined the user planar linkage the digital controller utilizes inverse kinematics on the 2 link 3 degree of freedom user planar linkage to determine a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle necessary for fingertip locator to attain the specific fingertip location reported. The first MCP angle is the angle between a user y z plane and user linkage motion plane P where the user y z plane is defined by the user y axis and the user z axis. At the first MCP angle is illustrated as angle . The second MCP angle is the angle between first link and a user x z plane where the user x z plane is defined by the user x axis and the user z axis. At the second MCP angle is illustrated as angle . The PIP angle is the angle between first link and second link where the PIP angle is located within the user linkage motion plane. At the PIP angle is illustrated as angle .

The application of inverse kinematics to determine the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle as defined here for the 2 link 3 degree of freedom planar linkage disclosed are well known in the art. See e.g. Sam Cubero 2006 see also S. K. Saha 2008 and see L. Sciavicco and B. Siciliano 2005 among many others. The digital controller may be programmed to determine the specified angles using any analytical means known in the art. The digital programmer may make use of commercially available existing software packages to determine the specified angles such as MATLAB available from The MathWorks Inc. Nattick Mass. USA MATHEMATICA available from Wolfram Alpha LLC Champaign Ill. USA and others. The specific means by which the digital controller determines the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle using inverse kinematics is not limiting within this disclosure provided that the digital controller defines the user planar linkage comprised of universal joint first link revolute joint and second link based on parameters determined using the specified calibration procedure and executes the reverse kinematics to achieve the specific fingertip location indicated by fingertip locator . Additionally in determining the PIP angle using the inverse kinematics the digital controller constrains solutions to those which indicate a value for the PIP angle achievable by a normally functioning human finger.

Utilizing inverse kinematics to determine the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle for the 2 link 3 degree of freedom planar linkage as described allows the user interface to approximate the angular positions of a user s fingers thumb without the adverse consequences of direct measurement approaches such as having one s finger movement restricted by a glove and having to carry the weight of such a device.

A specific embodiment of a user interface is illustrated at and is comprised of a fingertip locator generally indicated at . The user interface is comprised of 2 DOF interface universal joint first serial linkage interface revolute joint second serial linkage user end effector palm anchoring section digital controller and other components. At 2 DOF interface universal joint has two 2 rotational degrees of freedom where the first rotational degree of freedom is a rotation about interface x axis Xand the second rotational degree of freedom is a rotation about a interface y axis Y and where the interface x axis Xis perpendicular to the interface y axis Y. A coordinate system illustrating the relationship between the interface y axis Y the interface x axis X and an interface z axis Zis included at for reference where the interface x axis Xproceeds out of the page and where the interface z axis Zis perpendicular to the interface y axis Yand the interface x axis X. Such 2 DOF interface universal joints are known in the art and may be typically termed simply a universal joint a Hooke joint a Cardan joint or other terms. See e.g B. Siciliano and O. Khatib 2008 among many others.

First serial linkage is a rigid link where a first end of first serial linkage is anchored by 2 DOF interface universal joint . A second end of the first serial linkage is pinned at interface revolute joint and a first linkage length is equal to the displacement from the first end of first serial linkage to the second end of first serial linkage .

Interface revolute joint is a single degree of freedom joint allowing rotation about a single joint rotation axis where the single joint rotation axis is perpendicular to the interface y axis Y. The relationship between the single joint rotation axis of interface revolute joint and the interface y axis Yis similar to the relationship between single rotation axis S and the user y axis Ydiscussed earlier. Such revolute joints are similarly known in the art. See e.g B. Siciliano and O. Khatib among others.

Second serial linkage is a rigid link where a first end of second serial linkage is pinned at interface revolute joint . A second end of second serial linkage is attached to user end effector . A first linkage length is equal to the displacement from the first end of second serial linkage to user end effector . As a result of interface revolute joint and universal joint an interface planar linkage comprised of first serial linkage and second serial linkage is constrained to motion in an interface linkage motion plane not shown where the interface linkage motion plane is a single plane and where the interface y axis Yis either parallel to or residing within the interface linkage motion plane depending on where the origin of the X Y Zcoordinate system is located. At the interface linkage motion plane is a plane intersecting 2 DOF interface universal joint first serial linkage interface revolute joint second serial linkage and user end effector .

User end effector is a body fixably attached to the second end of second serial linkage . In operation user end effector is intended to remain in contact with the fingertip of a user s finger. Some ways to achieve reliable contact between the user s fingertip and the end effector include but are not limited to a magnetic base with a steel sphere attached to the user s fingertip or a Velcro strap.

Fingertip locator is further comprised of a first joint angle sensor . First joint angle sensor provides indications allowing determination of a first angle where the first angle is an angle between an interface y z plane and the interface linkage motion plane where the interface y z plane is defined by the interface y axis Yand the interface z axis Z. Fingertip locator is additionally comprised of second joint angle sensor . Second joint angle sensor provides indications allowing determination of a second angle where the second angle is an angle between first serial linkage and an interface x z plane where the interface x z plane is defined by the interface x axis Xand the interface z axis Z. Fingertip locator is additionally comprised of third joint angle sensor . Third joint angle sensor provides indications allowing determination of a third angle where the third angle is a joint angle between the first serial linkage and the second serial linkage in the interface linkage motion plane. First angle sensor second angle sensor and third angle sensor may be any means known for determining the angles as described. The angle sensors may be devices typically known as goniometers and may operate as electro mechanical devices optical flex devices strain sensing devices or other means. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 442 606 to Graham et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 983 547 to Fleming et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 792 077 Gomes U.S. Pat. No. 5 442 729 to Kramer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 035 274 to Kramer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 086 785 to Gentile et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 542 291 to Zimmerman among others.

Fingertip locator is fixably attached to palm anchoring section at 2 DOF interface universal joint . Palm anchoring section is additionally comprised of palm anchoring surface . Palm anchoring surface is intended to support the palm of a user while the user s fingertip is in contact with user end effector . Correspondingly palm anchoring surface is located on palm anchoring section and has an orientation to 2 DOF interface universal joint such that the interface planar linkage comprised of first serial linkage and second serial linkage can rotate about the interface x axis Xto a position where end effector is within at least 200 millimeters of palm anchoring surface .

Further at first angle sensor second angle sensor and third angle sensor are in data communication with digital controller as generally indicated at . Digital controller is additionally comprised of data port . In this embodiment digital controller communicates with first joint angle sensor and receives indications allowing determination of the first angle communicates with second joint angle sensor and receives indications allowing determination of the second angle communicates with third joint angle sensor and receives indications allowing determination of the third angle and determines the specific fingertip location corresponding to the location of user end effector using forward kinematics of the 2 link 3 degree of freedom interface planar linkage comprising fingertip locator . The application of forward kinematics to a 2 link 3 degree of freedom planar linkage in order to determine the location of an end effector is well known in the art. See e.g. Cubero see also S. K. Saha see also L. Sciavicco and B. Siciliano among many others.

An advantage of the fingertip locator of is that a user s hand may operate via a structure that allows a user s hand to be comfortably positioned and secured in space. In an embodiment palm anchoring section is comprised of additional structure which acts to firmly hold a user s palm on palm anchoring surface in substantially the same location so that user MCP joint defined during the calibration procedure remains in substantially the same position during use. For example palm anchoring section may incorporate straps surface contouring or other means to assist in maintaining a substantially stationary position. In an embodiment palm anchoring section is comprised of an inflatable bladder which inflates to gently press against the back of the user s hand securing the user s hand against palm anchoring surface .

The user interface may be further comprised of a plurality of fingertip locators where each fingertip locator in the plurality is in data communication with the digital controller and where the digital controller is configured to conduct the calibration procedure for each individual fingertip locator in order to determine an individual MCP joint location an individual proximal phalange length and individual intermediate distal phalange length of the individual user finger in contact with the each individual fingertip locator. When the user interface is comprised of the plurality of fingertip locators the digital controller receives individual specific fingertip locations from each fingertip locator and conducts reverse kinematics using at least the individual specific fingertip location the individual MCP joint location the individual proximal phalange length and the individual intermediate distal phalange length. Additionally in an embodiment an individual user length ratio L L L or L L L is separately determined for each individual user finger in contact with a individual fingertip locator and in each case an individual first length divided by an individual second length is within 10 of the individual user length ratio for the specific digit representing the individual user finger at and preferably equal to the individual user length ratio.

As an example illustrates a generally isometric view of a user interface indicated generally at and comprised of a plurality of fingertip locators. illustrates palm anchoring surface comprising palm anchoring section . A first fingertip locator is comprised of 2 DOF interface universal joint fixably attached to palm anchoring section first serial linkage is rotatably attached to universal joint and interface revolute joint and second serial linkage rotatably attached to interface revolute joint and terminating at user end effector . In addition a second fingertip locator is comprised of 2 DOF interface universal joint fixably attached to palm anchoring section first serial linkage is rotatably attached to universal joint and interface revolute joint and second serial linkage rotatably attached to interface revolute joint and terminating at user end effector . A third finger locator is partially viewable and is comprised of first serial linkage rotatably attached to interface revolute joint and a universal joint fixably attached to palm anchoring section and second serial linkage rotatably attached to interface revolute joint and terminating at user end effector . A fourth finger locator is also partially viewable comprised of first serial linkage and second serial linkage .

In an embodiment the user interface communicates information describing the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle to a robotic hand comprised of a robotic controller and at least one robotic finger where the robotic finger is comprised of a robotic MCP joint a robotic PIP joint a robotic proximal phalange and a robotic intermediate distal phalange. For example illustrates a user interface comprised of digital controller . Digital controller determines a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle based on the specific location of the user end effector of user interface and using fixed reference point P and the X Y Zaxes indicated as before and is further in data communication with a robotic hand generally indicated at . Digital controller communicates information describing the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle through data port via pathway to robotic controller which is in data communication with robotic hand via pathway . Robotic hand is comprised of robotic MCP joint is fixably attached to robotic support structure where robotic MCP joint has at least a first robotic rotational degree of freedom around an x axis Xand a second robotic rotational degree of freedom around a y axis Y where Xand Yare perpendicular. This is illustrated by the coordinate axes at with the x axis Xcoming out of the page and a z axis Zperpendicular to both Xand Y. Robotic hand is further comprised of robotic PIP joint having at least one rotational degree of freedom around a robotic joint rotation axis where the robotic joint rotation axis is perpendicular to the robotic y axis Y. Robotic hand is further comprised of robotic proximal phalange where a first end of robotic proximal phalange is anchored by robotic MCP joint and a second end of robotic proximal phalange is pinned at robotic PIP joint and further comprised of a robotic intermediate distal phalange having a first end pinned at robotic PIP joint and a second end attached to a robotic end effector .

In an embodiment the robotic phalange lengths comprising robotic hand mimic the average proportions of a digit of a human hand. In this embodiment a robotic proximal phalange length Lis the displacement between the first and second end of robotic proximal phalange and a robotic intermediate distal phalange length Lis the displacement between the first end of robotic intermediate distal phalange and robotic end effector . A robotic length ratio L Lis equal to robotic proximal phalange length Ldivided by the robotic intermediate distal phalange length L. In this embodiment the robotic length ratio L Lis within 10 of a user length ratio for a specific digit illustrated at such that the robotic length ratio L Ldivided by the user length ratio for the specific digit is greater than or equal to 0.9 and less than or equal to 1.1. Typically the user length ratio for the specific digit corresponds to the finger of a user s hand anticipated to be used for operating user interface .

In an embodiment robotic proximal phalange and the robotic intermediate distal phalange comprise a robotic planar linkage having motion within a robotic linkage motion plane where the robotic y axis Yresides in the robotic linkage motion plane. In this embodiment robotic hand is further comprised of a first joint positioning means connected to robotic proximal phlange for establishing a first robotic MCP angle and where the first robotic MCP angle is the angle between a robotic y z plane and the and the robotic linkage motion plane where the robotic y z plane is defined by the robotic y axis Yand robotic z axis Z. Robotic hand is further comprised of a second joint positioning means for establishing a second robotic MCP angle. The second joint positioning means is connected to robotic proximal phlange and robotic intermediate distal phalange and the second robotic MCP angle is an angle between robotic proximal phlange and the robotic x z plane where the robotic x z plane is defined by the robotic x axis Xand the robotic z axis Z. Robotic hand is further comprised of a third joint positioning means for establishing a robotic PIP angle where the robotic PIP angle is a joint angle between robotic proximal phlange and robotic intermediate distal phalange in the robotic linkage motion plane. Further the first joint positioning means the second joint positioning means and the third joint positioning means are in data communication with robotic controller . In this embodiment digital controller receives indications of a specific fingertip location from a user interface such as user interface determines a first MCP angle a second MCP angle and a PIP angle based on the specific fingertip location and user MCP location the user proximal phalange length and the user intermediate distal phalange length determined during the calibration procedure and communicates the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle to robotic controller . Robotic controller then communicates the first MCP angle to the first joint positioning means the second MCP angle to the second joint positioning means and the PIP angle to the third joint positioning means. The first joint positioning means the second joint positioning means and the third joint positioning means then establish the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle respectively resulting in robotic hand assuming a posture similar to a user s finger in contact with user end effector .

Such joint positioning means as discussed above are known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 8 052 185 to Madhani filed Apr. 9 2009 issued Nov. 8 2011 see also U.S. Pat. No. 5 062 673 to Mimura filed Dec. 28 1989 issued Nov. 5 1991 see also U.S. Pat. No. 5 437 490 to Mimura filed May 18 1994 issued Aug. 1 1995 see also U.S. Pat. No. 7 370 896 to Anderson et al. filed Dec. 20 2004 issued May 13 2008 and see U.S. Pat. No. 6 247 738 to Winkel et al. filed Jan. 20 1998 issued Jun. 19 2001 among others.

Robotic controller may also provide force feedback to digital controller by sensing a force experienced by robotic hand and communicating with digital controller such that a representative force is reflected back on the user. User interface may be various haptic devices for such force feedback including impedance type and admittance type devices. See e.g Crawford et al. Force Control and Non linear Master Slave Force Profile to Manage and Admittance Type Multi fingered Haptic User Interface Resilient Control Systems ISRCS 2012 5th International Symposium on 2012 see also Crawford et al Nonlinear Force Profile Used to Increase the Performance of a Haptic User Interface for Teleoperating a Robotic Hand INL CON 11 23691 Idaho National Laboratory 2012 OSTI ID 1054298 .

In an embodiment the user interface is rotatably attached to a wrist assembly comprised of a supination pronation joint an extension flexion joint and a radial ulnar joint. The radial ulnar joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about a radial ulnar axis where the radial ulnar axis is parallel to or resides within the user y z plane defined by interface y axis Yand interface z axis Z. The extension flexion joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about an extension flexion axis where the extension flexion axis is perpendicular to the radial ulnar axis in order to mimic the rotations of a human wrist. The supination pronation joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about a supination pronation axis where the supination pronation axis is perpendicular to the extension flexion axis and perpendicular to the radial ulnar axis. In a further embodiment the wrist assembly has a lateral degree of freedom along each of the interface x axis X the interface y axis Y and the interface z axis Z.

An embodiment of the wrist assembly generally indicated at is illustrated at . illustrates a user interface comprised of palm anchoring section with palm anchoring surface and constructed relative to the interface x axis X the interface y axis Y and the interface z axis Zaxes shown. User interface is attached to wrist assembly at supination pronation joint where supination pronation joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about supination pronation axis L. Supination pronation joint is attached to extension flexion joint where extension flexion joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about an extension flexion axis. Supination pronation joint is attached to radial ulnar joint where radial ulnar joint has a single rotational degree of freedom about radial ulnar axis L. Radial ulnar axis Lis parallel to or resides within the user y z plane defined by interface y axis Yand interface z axis Z the extension flexion axis is perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L and supination pronation axis Lis perpendicular to the extension flexion axis and perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L. Additionally radial ulnar joint has of wrist assembly has a lateral degree of freedom along each of the interface x axis X the interface y axis Y and the interface z axis Z. Another embodiment is isometrically illustrated at . indicates the palm anchoring section of a user interface attached to a supination pronation joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about supination pronation axis L where supination pronation joint is attached to an extension flexion joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about an extension flexion axis L and where extension flexion joint is attached to a radial ulnar joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about radial ulnar axis L. At the extension flexion axis Lis perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L and supination pronation axis Lis perpendicular to extension flexion axis Land perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L.

An additional embodiment showing a user interface generally indicated at and a wrist assembly generally indicated at is isometrically illustrated at . User interface is comprised palm anchoring surface and additionally comprised of a plurality of fingertip locators including a first fingertip locator comprised of 2 DOF interface universal joint fixably attached to palm anchoring section first serial linkage rotatably attached to universal joint and interface revolute joint and second serial linkage rotatably attached to interface revolute joint and terminating at user end effector . Additionally palm anchoring section is attached to a supination pronation joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about supination pronation axis L and supination pronation joint is attached to an extension flexion joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about an extension flexion axis L and extension flexion joint is attached to a radial ulnar joint generally indicated at and having rotational freedom about radial ulnar axis L. At the extension flexion axis Lis perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L and supination pronation axis Lis perpendicular to extension flexion axis Land perpendicular to radial ulnar axis L. Note that user interface differs slightly from user interface in that the fingertip locators for all five fingers including a thumb are positioned in substantially adjacent positions relative to the palm anchoring surface.

In an embodiment the user interface is further comprised of a means to determine a user wrist location a user forearm length and a user arm length where the user forearm length refers to the distance between a user s elbow and a user s wrist and where the user arm length refers to the distance between a user s shoulder and a user s elbow. The user wrist location is defined relative to a stationary reference point which may or may not be the fixed reference point P. The means for determining the user wrist location relative to the stationary reference point may be any means for example a linkage connected between the wrist assembly and a stationary anchor point a visual marker system an electromagnetic tracking system or any others system sufficient for reporting the wrist location with respect to a fixed reference point.

In this embodiment the digital controller is further programmed to determine the user forearm length from a plurality of specific wrist locations. The specific wrist locations are treated as forearm calibration points and utilized to determine the center of a forearm calibration sphere in a manner similar to the method utilized to determine the center of the calibration sphere from the plurality of calibration points as discussed earlier. In operation the plurality of forearm calibration points is obtained by a user maintaining an elbow position substantially constant and moving the wrist to a series of locations. The center of the forearm calibration sphere is determined from the plurality of forearm calibration points and the user forearm length is defined as the radius of the forearm calibration sphere.

Similarly in this embodiment the digital controller is further programmed to determine the user arm length from a plurality of specific wrist locations. The specific wrist locations are treated as arm calibration points and utilized to determine the center of an arm calibration sphere in a manner similar to the method utilize to determine the center of the calibration sphere from the plurality of calibration points as discussed earlier. In operation the plurality of arm calibration points is obtained by a user maintaining a shoulder position substantially constant maintaining a substantially straight arm posture and moving the wrist to a series of locations. The center of the arm calibration sphere is determined from the plurality of arm calibration points and the user arm length is defined as the radius of the arm calibration sphere minus the radius of the forearm calibration sphere.

In this embodiment with a defined wrist location a user forearm length and a user arm length the digital controller may treat the user forearm length and the user arm length as a planar linkage and determine descriptive angles describing the posture of a user s forearm and arm necessary to achieve a specific wrist location during operation using reverse kinematics in a manner similar to that described for determination of the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle.

The user interface may be operated by placing a user s palm in contact with the palm anchoring section and placing a fingertip of a user s finger in contact with the fingertip locator then positioning the fingertip of the user s finger at a calibration point while maintaining the user s finger is a substantially straight position and allowing the fingertip locator to communicate data to the digital controller. The digital controller is permitted to evaluate the data communicated and generate a calibration point location. This is repeated until a plurality of calibration point locations is generated. Using the plurality of calibration points the digital controller defines the calibration sphere center location relative to the fixed reference point and establishes the user MCP joint location at the calibration sphere center location. The digital controller further determines the user finger length based on the radius of the calibration sphere and establishes the user proximal phalange length equal and user intermediate distal phalange length.

Following the calibration procedure the user interface may be utilized to manipulate a robotic hand by placing the user s palm in contact with the palm anchoring section placing a fingertip of a user s finger in contact with the fingertip locator and positioning the fingertip locator. The fingertip locator communicates data to the digital controller and the digital controller generates a specific fingertip location. Based on the specific fingertip location the digital controller defines the user planar linkage comprised of a first link and a second link and determines the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle for the specific fingertip location. The digital controller communicates information defining the first MCP angle the second MCP angle and the PIP angle to the robotic hand controller and the robotic hand controller communicates the first MCP angle to a first joint positioning means communicates the second MCP angle to a second joint positioning means and communicates the PIP angle to a third joint positioning means.

Thus disclosed here is a user interface for a robotic hand intended to monitor and discern the posture of a user s hand during typical grasping and manipulation motions based on tracking the locations of the user s fingertips relative to some fixed reference point. The user interface substantially anchors a user s palm in a relatively stationary position and relays various angles of interest to a robotic hand having substantially the same configuration and proportions. The user interface acts to anchor the user s palm in a relatively stationary position and orientation conducts a calibration procedure to determine the user s applicable physiological dimensions and determines MCP and PIP angles of interest necessary to achieve the specific fingertip location. The user interface communicates the respective angles to a gripping type end effector which closely mimics the user s available range of motion and a typical human proportion. The user interface requires minimal contact with the operator allows for a wide working space and range of motions and provides distinct advantages in terms of available dexterity work space flexibility and adaptability to different users.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

