---

title: System and method for monitoring and selectively sharing an image in an image library
abstract: Systems and methods for sharing an image in a communication session are disclosed. In some aspects, a software application is run on a first computing device, while a communication application is run on the first computing device. The first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application. That one or more images were added to an image library of the first computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device is determined, using the communication application. The communication application facilitates transmission of at least one of the one or more images to one or more second computing devices. The one or more second computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185150&OS=09185150&RS=09185150
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09185150
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130502
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 643 304 filed May 6 2012 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Monitoring and Selectively Sharing New Photo Libraries. and Provisional Application No. 61 643 303 filed May 6 2012 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Monitoring and Transmitting New Photo Libraries the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Teleconferencing videoconferencing and desktop sharing sessions may be used to enable communication among parties in various geographical locations.

In some aspects the subject technology relates to a method for sharing a screenshot in a communication session. The method includes running one or more software applications on a first computing device while a communication application is running on the first computing device where the first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application and where the one or more software applications are different from the communication application. The method includes determining using the communication application that the one or more images were added to an image library of the first computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. The method includes facilitating transmission using the communication application of at least one of the one or more images to one or more second computing devices where the one or more second computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session.

In some aspects the subject technology relates to a non transitory computer readable medium for sharing a screenshot in a communication session. The computer readable medium includes instructions for running one or more software applications on a first computing device while a communication application is running on the first computing device where the first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application and where the one or more software applications are different from the communication application. The computer readable medium includes instructions for determining using the communication application that the one or more images were added to an image library of the first computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. The computer readable medium includes instructions for facilitating transmission using the communication application of at least one of the one or more images to one or more second computing devices where the one or more second computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session.

In some aspects the subject technology relates to a computing device. The computing device includes one or more processors. The computing device includes a memory. The memory includes instructions. The instructions include code to run a software application in a foreground of the computing device while a communication application is running in a background of the computing device where the first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application and where the software application is different from the communication application. The instructions include code to determine using the communication application that one or more images were added to an image library of the computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. The instructions include code to facilitate transmission using the communication application of at least one of the one or more images to one or more remote computing devices where the one or more remote computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances certain structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

In some examples one communications device may serve as a host communications device and the remaining communications devices may serve as client communications devices. For example at any given time during the conferencing session one or more of the communications devices may server as a presenter device e.g. host device and the remaining devices may server as audience devices e.g. client device . The presenter device may present material such as data desktop or screen contents audio images or video contents with the audience devices .

Further any number of communications devices may participate in the conferencing session. During a conferencing session any number of communications devices may serve as the presenter or audience devices.

The conferencing session may allow the sharing of desktop screen contents video and audio between the presenter and audience communications devices. In some examples the conferencing session allows simultaneous two way data audio and video signal transmissions between the presenter and audience communications devices.

The presenter and audience communications devices may be mobile e.g. wireless or non mobile e.g. desktop communications devices with video audio and desktop screen sharing capabilities. In some examples any communications device that can support real time peer to peer communications and support applications that provide desktop screen sharing sessions and user interaction may be used. Examples of the presenter and audience communications devices that may be used with the examples disclosed herein include but are not limited to mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants tablet computers portable televisions laptop computers digital video audio recorders etc.

Each communications device may include a display not shown for displaying shared data shared desktop screen content shared video content and or shared images. In some examples the display may be a built in display. In some examples the display may be a separate unit that is coupled e.g. wirelessly or through a physical connection such as a network connection with the communications device . The video capabilities of presenter and audience communications devices may be provided by a module built into the communications device . In some examples the module that provides the presenter and audience communications devices with video capabilities may be an independent unit that is coupled with the presenter and audience communications devices.

In some examples communications device may include one or more audio inlets outlets for inputting or outputting audio e.g. microphone speaker etc. . In some examples at least one of the audio inlets outlets may be a built in inlet outlet. In some examples at least one of the audio inlet outlet may be a separate unit that is coupled e.g. wirelessly or through a physical connection such as a network connection with the communications device .

The presenter and audience communications devices may communicate directly or through intermediary communications devices not shown . For example one or more communications servers shown in may facilitate communications between the presenter and audience communications devices. In some examples the presenter and audience communications devices may communicate through secure and or encrypted communications links.

The communications network may be a high bandwidth and or band limited communications network. In some examples the communications network may be a wireless communications network. In some examples the communications network may be a local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. In some examples the network may include one or more segments of one or more general purpose network e.g. Internet LAN etc. and or other networks e.g. Internet protocol IP network .

Depending on the type of communications device used e.g. mobile or desktop the presenter and audience communications devices participate in the conferencing session through appropriate communications links e.g. wireless and or wired communications links and through appropriate communication networks .

In some examples a conferencing session monitor may monitor the presenter s communications device and provide updates indicating newly added content to the audience communications devices . In some examples the conferencing session monitor may monitor one or more storage folders of the presenter s communications device for newly added files e.g. audio files video files data files files including information regarding desktop screen sharing and share the newly added files with the audience communications devices . For example the conferencing session may monitor an image folder of the presenter s communications device and share the newly added images with the audience communications devices .

The conferencing session monitor may be located within the presenter communications device or be external to the presenter communications device . In some examples the conferencing session monitor may be positioned down stream with respect to the presenter communications device and or within the communications network . In some examples the conferencing session monitor may be internal to one or more of the audience communications devices .

In some examples a selector may be coupled with the presenter and or audience communications devices. The selector may be internal to the communications device be located within the network or be downstream from the network . The selector processes the shared information in the newly added files and selects certain portions of the file for sharing with the audience communications devices . For example the selector may remove information such as headers tool bars status bars and other items that a presenter does not wish to share with the audience communications devices and leave selected portions of the file for sharing. In some examples the selector may remove certain features of the shared information and retain certain other features.

In some examples the selector may share a reduced e.g. compressed or enhanced version of the newly added file with the audience communications devices . In some examples the selector may perform certain functions such as data processing image processing video processing audio processing etc. to reduce or enhance the shared information.

The communications server audio bridge and video server may be positioned within the network or be downstream from the network .

The processor may be coupled with various interfaces via an input output I O device interface . The I O device interface may include logic to interface with various input and or output devices such as a keypad or mouse and with the processor and allow signals to be transferred between the processor and other components. Further interface devices such as speaker microphone peripheral devices and display may be used to transfer signals to from the processor and main memory . In some examples the input output interface may include a USB port not shown .

In some examples the communications device may include a network device interface that provides the device with access to a communications network . In some examples an input output network interface may be used to transmit and receive the signals used for sharing content such as video audio data screen and desktop content according to the examples described herein.

The main memory may be a computer readable memory and include combinations of non volatile memory devices. The main memory may also include an operating system that implements various conventional operating system functions including memory management and controlled access to various devices such as a database storage and task and process scheduling. The data storage may include content for use with examples disclosed herein such as images text video audio and computer applications. In some examples the data storage may classify the stored content within various folders such as image folders general data storage folders etc.

In some examples the storage may be external to the device . For example the storage may be a remote database within the network or in a computing cloud.

The main memory may be configured to hold various software and computer executable instructions and data structures including computer executable instructions and data structures that implement aspects of the techniques described herein.

For example the software may implement the procedures for monitoring one or more storage folders of the storage portion of the communications device . In some examples the software may further implement the procedures for sharing the content stored within the storage area or storage folders with the other communications devices involved in the conferencing session. In some examples the software may further implement the features for selecting features for sharing with the audience communications devices . For example the software may implement the features for processing e.g. removing compressing enhancing etc the shared content.

As noted previously alternatively in some examples an application program not shown or a module not shown positioned in the network shown in may be responsible for monitoring the storage folders of the communications device selecting content for sharing and or sharing the information stored in the storage folders the other communications devices involved in the conferencing session.

In some examples upon activating a conferencing session the conferencing session monitor is activated. The session monitor may be activated by a user of the communications device or automatically in response to activating other programs or in response to initiation of the conferencing session.

Once activated the communications device user not shown may proceed to work with other programs on his her communications device . Although the user is working with other programs e.g. a mobile application program the conferencing session is moved to the background where it remains active and continues to run in the background of the communications device.

As noted the conferencing session monitor continues to be active and continues to actively monitor the storage folder of the presenter s device. As the user is working with the interface of the program e.g. working with an application programming interface he she may wish to share some information regarding the launched program such as an image of the launched program interface with one or more audience communications devices shown in involved in the conferencing session . Some examples disclosed herein provide the user with the ability to do so e.g. share the information regarding the launched program without having to exit the program and return to the conferencing session . Specifically in order to share the information regarding the launched program with the other users the user of the communications device may create a file including information regarding the launched application and save that file in a storage folder .

For example the user may wish to share an image of the launched program interface with the other participants in the conferencing session. To do so the user may obtain a screen image of the launched program interface . In some examples the screen image may be at least one of a screen dump screen dump screen shot screen capture screen grab or print screen hereinafter collectively referred to as the screen shot . In some examples the screen image may be any image taken by a computer to record the visible items displayed on the display of the communications device. The screen shot may be obtained by any technique known in the art. For example the screen shot may be obtained by employing a hardware key such as by pressing certain keys on a keyboard by using certain device keys by touching the screen etc.

Once the user has obtained a file including information regarding the launched program the file is stored in a location in the storage area of the communications device . In some examples the obtained file may be stored in a storage folder of the presenter s communications device. As noted above the conferencing session monitor monitors this folder and detects any newly added files to this folder. The newly added files may be processed by the selector which processes the new files and reduces or enhances the files by removing or adding certain features and retaining other features. For example certain features such as toolbars status bars etc. may be removed from the newly added files. Once processed by the selector the file may be shared with the other participants in the conferencing session.

In some examples the file including the shared information may be automatically and without any user interaction stored by the communications device in the storage folder . In some examples the shared information may be stored in the storage folder through user interaction and by the user of the communications device.

In some examples the selector may automatically and without any user interaction operate on the newly stored files to select process the features that are being shared. In some examples the operations carried out by the selector may be triggered by user interaction user of at least one of the presenter and or audience communications devices .

In some examples a user of the communications device may identify the storage folders whose contents may be shared with the participants of the conferencing session. In some examples not all participants of the same conferencing session receive the same amount of shared information. Specifically the communications device may identify certain storage folders as folders whose updates contents may be shared with certain participants in the conferencing session and certain other folders as folders whose updates contents may be shared with certain other participants.

Once a file is saved in the storage folder of the communications device the user may choose to continue working with the launched program or launch another program. The user may continue sharing information with the other participants in the conferencing session by obtaining additional files and storing the files in designated storage folders .

For example as shown in the user may continue working with the launched program or launch another program. If the user decides to once again share information regarding the launched program for example share information regarding updates to the launched program interface A he she may obtain another file A e.g. another screen shot and store that file in the storage folder . The conferencing session monitor detects this update to the storage folder . The selector not shown may operate on the stored file to reduce enhance the features in the file and or select certain features for sharing. Once processed by the selector the portions selected for sharing by the selector may be shared with the other participants of the conferencing session.

The initiation of the conferencing session activates the conferencing session monitor shown in . The conferencing session once activated may be transferred to the background of the communications device by launching another program. If a user wishes to share information regarding the launched program with the other participants he she may obtain information of the launched program e.g. screen shot of the launched program interface . The obtained information e.g. screen image is stored in a storage folder. The user may choose to continue working with the launched application or select another application to work with . In either case if the conferencing session is still active the user may continue to create new files e.g. screen shots including information regarding the program that he she is working with. The newly created files are stored in the storage folder. The conferencing session monitor shown in continues to monitor the storage folder of the communications device to determine if a new file is detected. The selector not shown may operate on any newly detected file to reduce enhance the features in the file and or select certain features for sharing. Once processed by the selector the portions selected for sharing by the selector may be shared with the other participants of the conferencing session.

Certain operating systems do not allow screen capture as an application. This renders building remote conferencing and remote assistance difficult as one cannot capture the screen when other applications are the active application. Some examples initiate a conferencing session that is coupled with conferencing session monitoring described herein. The user e.g. customer expert or presenter may transfer the conferencing session application in the background where it continues to run. The user may open other applications and manually take screen shots of the application that he she is working with for example open up book reading application programming interface and take a screen shot by pressing certain hardware buttons of his her device . The conferencing session monitor is monitoring the user s storage folders and waiting for new images to be added. As soon as it detects that a new image has been added it automatically shares the new image with the other attendees in the session. The customer presenter or expert user does not need to reopen the conferencing session monitor and may stay in the current application. In some examples the content portions on applications may be selectively shared. Specifically in some examples in place of sharing an entire file e.g. an entire window of an image certain features of the content area of the application are shared. For example in an image items such as toolbars and status bars and items that the presenter does not wish to share with the participants may be removed and the remaining features are shared.

As shown the presenter computing device includes a central processing unit CPU a network interface a camera a microphone a speaker a display device and a memory . In some examples the presenter computing device can be implemented without one or more of the network interface the camera the microphone the speaker or the display device or one or more of the network interface the camera the microphone the speaker or the display device can reside externally to the presenter computing device and be connected to the presenter computing device using a wired or wireless connection.

The CPU is configured to execute computer instructions that are stored in a computer readable medium for example the memory . The network interface is configured to allow the presenter computing device to transmit and receive data in a network e.g. the communications network of . The network interface may include one or more network interface cards NICs . The camera is configured to take photograph s which may be stored in the memory . The microphone is configured to receive audio input the audio input may be transmitted using the network interface or stored in an audio file in the memory . The speaker is configured to play audio output for example associated with a communication session in which the presenter computing device is participating or audio stored in an audio file residing in the memory . The display device can include one or more screens. The display device is configured to display image s associated with application s executing on the presenter computing device .

The memory stores data and or instructions. The memory may be one or more of a cache unit a storage unit an internal memory unit or an external memory unit. As illustrated the memory includes a communication application software application s . and an image library .

The communication application can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The communication application is configured to allow the presenter computing device to participate e.g. present or receive data in a communication session. A user of the presenter computing device may use the communication application to control the presented data or view received data in the communication session. As illustrated the communication application includes an image share module . The image share module is configured to share image s from the image library in the communication session. According to some examples the image share module is configured to determine that image s were added to the image library since a time when the communication application started running for example because the user of the presenter computing device took a new photograph or a new screenshot. The image share module is configured to facilitate transmission of all or some of the image s added to the image library to audience member computing device s in the communication session. Example operations of the image share module are discussed in greater detail in conjunction with and below.

The software application s . can include any software application s on the presenter computing device for example an electronic book reading application a web browser an online or mobile banking application an electronic messaging e.g. email short messaging service multimedia messaging service etc. application a word processing application a slide show application etc. In some examples one or more of the software application s may be running in the foreground of the presenter computing device while the communication application may be running in the background of the presenter computing device .

The image library stores image s . . The image library can include one or more directories or folders of image s . . The image s . can include screenshot s from software application s . photograph s taken using the camera or picture s downloaded via a network accessible using the network interface for example from a webpage or from a multimedia messaging service MMS message.

The process begins at step where a first computing device e.g. presenter computing device or presenter communications device runs a software application e.g. one of the software applications . in a foreground of the first computing device while a communication application e.g. communication application is running in a background of the first computing device. The first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application. The software application is different from the communication application. For example the software application can be an electronic book reader application a word processing application a slide show application etc. According to some implementations the first computing device has an operating system that does not allow an application that is running in the background e.g. the communication application to capture the screen of other software application s that are running in the foreground. Examples of such operating systems include some versions of iOS operating systems developed by Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif.

In step the first computing device e.g. via operation of the communication application receives audio data via a microphone of the first computing device.

In step the first computing device facilitates transmission using the communication application of the received audio data to one or more second computing devices e.g. one or more of the audience communication device s . The one or more second computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session.

In step the first computing device e.g. via operation of the image share module in the communication application determines whether one or more images were added to an image library e.g. image library which includes image s . of the first computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. Image s can be added to the image library for example if the user of the first computing device takes a screenshot from the software application or a photograph using a camera e.g. camera of the first computing device. Image s can be added to the image library for example if the user of the first computing device downloads picture s via a network. The picture s can include picture s downloaded via a webpage accessed via a web browser of the first computing device or picture s received in an electronic message e.g. an email or multimedia messaging service MMS message at the first computing device.

The first computing device can determine using the communication application whether one or more images were added to the image library by accessing using the communication application the image library once every threshold time period and determining whether one or more new images were added to the image library since a last accessing using the communication application of the image library. The threshold time period can be either a fixed time period e.g. one second or a variable time period. In some implementations the threshold time period is between 0.9 and 1.1 seconds or is equal to one second.

If image s were added to the image library the process continues to step . If image s were not added to the image library the process returns to step .

In step the first computing device facilitates transmission using the communication application e.g. using the image share module in the communication application of at least one of the one or more images to the one or more second computing devices. In some examples the first computing device automatically e.g. without user input facilitates transmission of every one of the one or more images added to the image library since the time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. Alternatively the first computing device can place e.g. automatically or responsive to a user input the communication application in the foreground of the first computing device. The first computing device can receive using the communication application a user selection of at least one of the one or more images for transmission to the one or more second computing devices. After step the process ends.

The process begins at step where a first computing device e.g. presenter computing device or presenter communications device runs one or more software applications e.g. one or more of the software application s . in a foreground of a first computing device while a communication application e.g. communication application is running in a background of the first computing device. The first computing device is associated with a presenter in a communication session implemented via the communication application. The one or more software applications are different from the communication application.

In step the first computing device receives a user input for taking one or more screenshots. For example the user of the first computing device can press a print screen button on the first computing device or enter a software or hardware command for taking a screenshot.

In step the first computing device takes the one or more screenshots responsive to the received user input for taking the one or more screenshots. Each of the one or more screenshots includes visual data from at least one of the one or more software applications that is running in the foreground of the first computing device.

In step the first computing device stores the one or more screenshots in an image library of the first computing device. For example the one or more screenshots can correspond to one or more of the image s . in the image library of the presenter computing device . In some examples if photograph s were taken using a camera of the first computing device the photograph s can also be stored in the image library.

In step the first computing device determines using the communication application that the one or more screenshots were added to the image library of the first computing device since a time when the communication application started running on the first computing device. In some example the first computing device can also determine using the communication application that photograph s were added to the image library since the time when the communication application started running on the first computing device.

In step the first computing device facilitates transmission using the communication application of at least one of the one or more screenshots to one or more second computing devices e.g. one or more of the audience communication device s . The one or more second computing devices are associated with one or more audience members in the communication session. In some examples if photograph s were added to the image library since the time when the communication application started running on the first computing device the first computing device can facilitate transmission using the communication application of at least one of the photograph s to one or more second computing devices. After step the process ends.

The subject technology may be implemented with various use cases described herein. In one example use case the presenter computing device has an operating system that does not allow an application that is running in the background to capture the screen of other software application s that are running in the foreground. The user of the presenter computing device is accessing technical support for a software application on the presenter computing device different from the communication application e.g. an electronic book reading software application . The audience member is the technical support representative. To allow the technical support representative to see what the presenter s screen displays when the problem occurs the presenter reproduces the problem and manually takes a screen shot e.g. using a print screen or take screen shot button on the presenter computing device of his her screen while using the software application. The screen shot is transmitted to the audience member using the techniques described herein.

In another example use case the presenter computing device is a computing device of a teacher of an online course teaching students audience members how to use a software application e.g. a computer aided design application . To allow the audience members to see what the presenter is doing with the software application the presenter manually takes screen shots of the software application whenever he she takes an action in the software application. The manually taken screen shots are transmitted to the audience members using the techniques described herein.

In yet another example use case the presenter computing device is presenting a slide show using a software application e.g. a slide show application different from the communication application to audience members in an online meeting. Upon changing slides the presenter manually takes a screen shot of his her screen. The manually taken screen shot is then transmitted to the audience members who can view the slides on the audience member computing devices.

In one more example use case the presenter computing device is associated with a user installing hardware in his her home for example the user may be wiring a home telephone system or connecting a television with a storage unit storing digital video files. The audience member computing device is associated with a remote technical support representative helping the user install the hardware. To allow the remote technical support representative to see what the user is doing the user can take photograph s of the hardware installation using the presenter computing device and the photograph s can be transmitted to the audience member computing device using some of the techniques disclosed herein. The example use cases described herein are not the only use cases for the subject technology which can also be used in other scenarios.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the permanent storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. The permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is anon volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device for example a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device for example a floppy disk flash drive and its corresponding disk drive as the permanent storage device . Like the permanent storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject technology are stored in the system memory the permanent storage device or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for sharing an image in an image library in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the input and output device interfaces and . The input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices for example cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD Some implementations include devices for example a touch screen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the electronic system can be a part of a network of computers for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks for example the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

The above described features and applications can be implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage or flash storage for example a solid state drive which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software technologies can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software technologies. In some implementations multiple software technologies can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software technology described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components for example microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code for example is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits for example application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some aspects of the disclosed subject matter a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components illustrated above should not be understood as requiring such separation and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims where reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically no stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase for example an aspect does not imply that the aspect is essential to the subject technology or that the aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase for example an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase for example a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase for example a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

