---

title: Providing access to communication plans via multiple access methods
abstract: One computer-implemented method includes identifying a plurality of communication plans, identifying a first communication associated with a first access method and associated with a first attribute, determining a first communication plan associated with the first communication from the plurality of communication plans, the determination based at least in part on the first attribute associated with the first communication, identifying a second communication different than the first communication and associated with the first access method, the second communication associated with a second attribute different than the first attribute, and determining a second communication plan associated with the second communication from the plurality of communication plans, the determination based at least in part on the second attribute associated with the second communication, wherein the first and second communication plans are associated with a prepaid pay-as-you-go or subscription monetary values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08582739&OS=08582739&RS=08582739
owner: Network Enhanced Telecom, LLP
number: 08582739
owner_city: Longview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 727 037 filed Nov. 15 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application 61 733 830 filed Dec. 5 2012 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods software and systems for providing access to multiple communication plans for communications using multiple different access methods.

Network services allow subscribers to place communications calls messages etc. to destinations around the world.

The present disclosure involves systems software and computer implemented methods for providing access to multiple communication plans for communications using multiple different access methods. One computer implemented method includes identifying a plurality of communication plans identifying a first communication associated with a first access method and associated with a first attribute determining a first communication plan associated with the first communication from the plurality of communication plans the determination based at least in part on the first attribute associated with the first communication identifying a second communication different than the first communication and associated with the first access method the second communication associated with a second attribute different than the first attribute and determining a second communication plan associated with the second communication from the plurality of communication plans the determination based at least in part on the second attribute associated with the second communication wherein the first communication plan is associated with a first prepaid subscription or pay as you go monetary value and the second communication plan is associated with a second prepaid subscription or pay as you go monetary value.

Another computer implemented method includes identifying a first communication including an associated destination address identifying a communication plan associated with the first communication determining that the first communication is a completed communication to the destination address associating the destination address with the communication plan upon determination that the first communication is a completed communication and permitting subsequent communications to the destination address under the communication plan wherein the communication plan is associated with a prepaid subscription or pay as you go monetary value.

The present disclosure relates to computer implemented methods software and systems for providing access to multiple communication plans for communications using multiple different access methods.

The present disclosure describes a solution for providing different communication plans to communications using multiple access methods. A communication may be any type of one way or multi way communication session between two or more individuals systems or entities including but not limited to telephone calls text messages video and audio conferences chat rooms interactions over the Internet or any other suitable communications sessions. Although some examples in the present disclosure are presented in the context of subscriber to subscriber telephone calls the present disclosure contemplates these examples being applied to any suitable communication type.

Generally these communications are placed by subscribers associated with accounts of a particular provider. For a given communication a communication plan may govern the rating and billing of the communication. The communication plan may specify a rate that the subscriber s account will be charged for each minute of talk time in a completed communication to a destination one time surcharges to be charged to the subscriber s account and various other details related to charging the subscriber for the communication.

In some implementations the communications plans may be determined according to attributes associated with the communication for example an access method group an inbound carrier a dialed destination number or any other suitable attribute. The attributes may also be of the same type and the values may differ. In other implementations a communication may be identified as associated with a preferred communication plan and the subscriber may be prompted to change the communication plan in response to an indication that the communication cannot be serviced under the preferred communication plan. In other implementations the subscriber s behavior may alter the configuration of the identified communication plan. For example in some implementations a dialed destination number may be registered with the communication plan when the subscriber first attempts to connect to the destination and the communication plan may provide unlimited calling to the destination number for a certain amount of time.

The present solution has the advantage of allowing account issuers more flexibility in configuring the communication plans associated with communications made on their accounts. Communications made using the same access method may be processed using different communication plans and communications made on different access methods may be processed using the same communication plan. This decoupling of communication plans from access methods may also lead to cost savings for the account issuer and service provider as fewer access methods such as 800 numbers and public IP addresses will be necessary. Further such an approach may lead to greater end user satisfaction due to increased convenience.

In the depicted implementation the call processing server is a data processing apparatus that may include various components for providing communications service including an interface a processor an arbitration module one or more interactive voice response IVR modules one or more switch interface modules one or more service modules and an application programming interface API module .

The interface may be used by the call processing server for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the system connected to the network for example the client as well as other systems communicably coupled to the network not illustrated . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated system .

The call processing server may include a processor . In some cases the processor directs the operation of the other components of the call processing server by executing the software instructions making up these various components. In some cases the processor may include multiple physical central processing units CPUs which may be contained inside a single chassis or distributed across multiple computers and connected via a network or backplane. In some cases the processor may be a general purpose processor such as those produced by INTEL AMD HP ARM APPLE or any other suitable processor. The processor may also be a custom application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA specifically adapted to the present application.

The call processing server may also include an arbitration module . In some instances the arbitration module may be a software application operable to determine which of the service modules should be executed for a particular call such as a call from subscriber . The arbitration module may receive a NEW CALL event from one of the network switches including information about a newly received call on the network switch. The arbitration module may be operable to decide whether to accept or reject a particular call in addition to determining the service module to handle the call. Such a configuration may reduce the load on other components in call processing server by quickly disposing of invalid calls before additional processing time is spent on the calls. In some cases the arbitration module executes on a separate server or servers from the remaining components of call processing server and transfers control of a particular call to a second server after determining that the call should proceed. In some cases this transfer may necessitate sending a control message to the network switch associated with the call to inform the switch of to which server additional events should be sent.

In the illustrated implementation the call processing server includes one or more IVR modules . In some cases the IVR modules may be a combination of control software and digital signal processing DSP hardware for performing various signal processing tasks on the voice path of a call. These tasks may include detecting digits inserting recorded voice prompts converting text to speech and inserting the resulting speech into the voice path detecting speech and converting it to text as well as other tasks relating to detecting or producing digital signals related to the voice path of a call. In some cases the IVR modules are integrated into dedicated servers and controlled via a local area network by the other components of call processing server . The IVR modules may also be integrated into the same server as the other components of call processing server and controlled via a local application programming interface API .

The call processing server may also include one or more switch interface modules . In some cases the switch interface modules may be one or more software libraries including instructions operable to build parse send and receive messages to and from the one or more network switches . These messages may allow the call processing server to both monitor and control the behavior of the one or more network switches . In some cases the switch interface modules may include methods called by the other components of the call processing server to monitor and control the one or more network switches . The switch interface modules may also be independent software applications executing on a server and interacting with the one or more network switches . In such cases the other components of the call processing server may access the functionality of the switch interface modules through a network API. In some cases the switch interface modules may be operable to produce reports related to the one or more network switches including reports showing the number of active calls on a switch the status of calls of the switch a log of errors associated with the switch and other suitable reports.

One or more service modules may also be included in call processing server . In some cases the service modules may include instructions related to the specific user experience a subscriber such as subscriber will experience when accessing the system. In some cases the service module to execute is determined according to the access method used by subscriber to access the system. The service modules may include instructions relating to the playing of voice prompts the collecting of account information the playing of interactive menus the providing of various account information such as balances and statuses functionality to allow a subscriber to add money to an account such as by charging a credit card the playing of mid call voice prompts such as warnings when the balance of an account is low and other functionality. In some cases the service modules may be included in a single software application. The service modules may also each be separate software applications. In some instances the service modules may utilize the switch interface modules in order to interact with the one or more network switches such as for example to connect a subscriber to a specified destination number. The service modules may also be software libraries loaded and executed by a framework call processing application on demand rather than stand alone software applications.

The call processing server may also include an API allowing external applications such as the GUI to access the various components included in the call processing server . In some cases the API may be a proprietary API written specifically for the call processing server . The API may also be an industry standard telephony API such as SIP H.323 AIN or any other suitable API. The API may also be an industry standard API for exposing functionality over a network such as CORBA RPC or any other suitable API. In some instances the API may be implemented via Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and the various functionality of the call processing server may be accessed by specifically formed Uniform Resource Locators URLs . The API may also provide access to the functionality of the call processing server via other mediums such as SMS text message email or other mediums.

The call processing server may also include a memory for storing a database . The database may store various data items including accounts communication plans access methods access method groups and call detail records . The database may also contain service configurations voice prompts rating information destination geographic information call detail records and any other necessary configuration or historical data necessary to perform the described service. The database may include several different databases hosted on different servers connected via local area network or a public network such as the Internet. In such a configuration the component databases of database may be interconnected by a replication mechanism that keeps the component databases in sync. In some implementations the component databases may be exact replicas of each other while in other implementations only a portion of the databases may be replicated. The database may be provided and managed by a database management system DBMS including but not limited to ORACLE INFORMIX DB2 SQL SERVER MYSQL POSTGRES SQLITE VERTICA or any other suitable DBMS. In some cases the various data items stored by database may be stored in separate relational tables while in other cases the data items may be stored in individual rows inside a table in columns inside a table across various tables more than one data item in a single table or in any other suitable configuration. The database may also store additional configuration related to the other components of the call processing server which may access the database to retrieve this information and the data items specifically described herein.

The database may include one or more accounts . In some cases the accounts may each be associated with a personal identification number PIN which a subscriber may enter to access the account during a call. The accounts may also each be associated with a balance representing a prepaid amount of money that may be applied towards the cost of communications services associated with the account. When a subscriber makes a call associated with the account the balance may be debited for the cost of the associated call. In some cases the accounts are arranged in account groups where all accounts in a group include similar attributes. For example an account group may include 1000 accounts associated with a certain customer each with a unique PIN and each with a balance of five dollars. In some cases the accounts may not include a balance and any communications services associated with the account may be tracked and billed to the subscriber rather than being debited from the account. In some instances each of the accounts may be represented by a single row in an associated database table or by multiple rows in multiple database tables.

The database may also include one or more communication plans . In some cases the communication plans include configuration related to rating and billing particular accesses to the system such as calls made between subscriber and destination . In other cases the communication plans may apply to other types of services that do not include a one to one relationship between a subscriber and a destination such as a conference call. The communication plans may also apply to services that do not include a destination number at all such as a service to allow subscriber to recharge an account.

In some cases the communication plans specify a rate to be charged to a call per a unit of time. For example a communication plan may be configured to charge a call five cents for each minute. In other cases the communication plan may include other charges in addition to or instead of this rate such as for example a one time access charge a connection fee an activation fee an end of call surcharge a one time delayed surcharge e.g. a five cent charge after ten minutes of talk time or other suitable charges. The communication plans may also include charges applied to different entities other than the subscriber . For example the communication plan may include charges incurred by a distributor charges applied by an outbound carrier or other charges.

The communication plans may be associated with different components included in database which may be used to determine the particular communication plan to be used for a particular call. In some cases the communication plans may be associated with accounts access method groups geographic regions times of day and other components stored in and or external to database .

The database may also include access methods . In some cases access methods may include any mechanism by which the call processing server may be accessed by subscriber including but not limited to phone numbers that the subscriber may dial IP addresses that the subscriber may connect to phone numbers that the subscriber may send an SMS text message to SS7 point codes URLs that the subscriber may connect to re origination and other mechanisms. In some cases the access methods may be associated with one or more access method groups . The access method groups may be used to group access methods that share common configuration attributes and thus may be treated the same. In some cases a single access method may belong to multiple access method groups while in other cases an access method may be associated with only one access method group.

The database may also include one or more call detail records providing information about calls that have been processed by call processing server . In some cases a single call detail record is inserted into database for each call serviced by the call processing server . The database may also contain multiple call detail records for each call. In some instances the one or more call detail records contain various information about the call including but not limited to the time the call occurred the duration of the call any charges incurred by the call the account used to make the call the destination number or numbers connected to during the call the communication plan used by the call and any other appropriate information. In some cases the call detail records are used to produce reports showing call activity profitability and other metrics.

The system may also include one or more network switches communicatively coupled to network . In some cases the network switches may be standard telecom equipment used to connect time slots or ports together to complete telephone calls. The network switches may also be voice over internet protocol VoIP equipment operable to service telephone calls originating and or terminating to IP networks. The network switches may be commercially available networking equipment including products manufactured by ALCATEL LUCENT CISCO NORTEL HP STRATUS or any other suitable switching product. The network switches may also include general purpose routers multiplexers gateways or other equipment. In some cases the network switches may be controlled by the call processing server via one or more APIs. The APIs may be standard protocols such as SIP or H.323 proprietary control protocols specific to the manufacturer of the network switch or any other suitable API or combination of APIs.

The system may also include a subscriber . In some cases the subscriber may be a person associated with one of the accounts . The subscriber may access the call processing server by an access number on an associated telephone. The subscriber may also access the call processing server by connecting to an IP address associated with the call processing server or one of the network switches . In some instances the subscriber may access the call processing server or network switches using a software application configured to communicate with these components. The call processing server may execute one of the service modules to provide a service to the subscriber . In some cases the call processing server may interact with the one or more network switches to connect subscriber to a destination . In some cases destination may be another subscriber of the call processing server . The destination may also be any telephone or other communications device and may be identified by a destination telephone number entered by the subscriber .

The system may also include a client that includes a GUI . The client may include an interface a processor a memory and a client application . The client may be used by administrator or a subscriber to access the call processing server in order to view or change the various data items stored in database view or change reports generated from the data items in the database make calls or perform any other suitable function.

At a first communication associated with a first access method and associated with a first attribute is identified. In some cases the first communication is identified by the reception of a new call or other event from a network switch. The first communication may also be identified by the receipt of an API message or other request for service. The first communication may be associated with a first attribute. In some cases the attribute is associated with the first communication by performing look ups related to the first communication in database. The first attribute may also be contained in the event identifying the first communication and require no external lookup. The first attribute may include but is not limited to a carrier id an access method group a destination number a destination geographic area e.g. a country city or region a time of day a call sequence number an account an account group or any other suitable attribute or combination of attributes.

At a first communication plan associated with the first communication is determined the determination based at least in part on the first attribute associated with the first communication. In some instances the determination may be made by looking up the associated communication plan in a database or other data store. For example the method may determine the communication plan for the first communication by looking up the entered destination number in a database and finding an associated communication plan. In some cases the communication plan is determined by performing several of these lookups with certain attributes or portions of attributes being given precedence over others in the lookup. The method may also be operable to change the lookup behavior based on additional configuration parameters which may add or remove different portions of the first attribute from consideration in determining the first communication plan. For example a configuration associated with a certain communication may remove time of day from the consideration in determining the communication plan.

At a second communication different than the first communication and associated with the first access method is identified the second communication associated with a second attribute different than the first attribute. As discussed above relative to the first attribute the second attribute may include but is not limited to a carrier id an access method group a destination number a destination geographic area e.g. a country city or region a time of day a call sequence number an account an account group or any other suitable attribute or combination of attributes.

At a second communication plan associated with the second communication is determined the determination based at least in part on the second attribute associated with the second communication. In some instances the determination may be made by looking up the associated communication plan in a database or other data store. For example the method may determine the communication plan for the second communication by looking up the entered destination number in a database and finding an associated communication plan. In some cases the communication plan is determined by performing several of these lookups with certain attributes or portions of attributes being given precedence over others in the lookup. The method may also be operable to change the lookup behavior based on additional configuration parameters which may add or remove different portions of the second attribute from consideration in determining the second communication plan. For example a configuration associated with a certain communication may remove time of day from the consideration in determining the communication plan.

In some cases the first and second communication plans may be associated with prepaid pay as you go or subscription monetary values. For example a prepaid subscription monetary value may be an amount a subscriber pays up front for a certain duration of service and a pay as you go prepaid monetary value may be a balance that is decremented for each call minute unit or event on the communication plan and recharged when it reaches zero. In some implementations the first and second communication plans may be associated with the same prepaid pay as you go or subscription monetary value. The first and second communication plans may also be associated with different prepaid pay as you go or subscription monetary values.

If the account is determined to be valid at the method continues to where the account balance may be presented to the subscriber associated with the access. The balance may be presented by playing a series of recorded prompts indicating the balance e.g. you have nine dollars sixty five cents . At destination information associated with the call is identified. In some cases the destination information may be identified by collecting a destination number from the subscriber associated with the access. The destination information may also be identified by examining attributes identified when the service was first accessed. At a determination is made as to whether the destination number is valid. This determination may be made by parsing the destination number to determine if it is the correct length or format looking the destination number up in a database table containing known country codes area codes city codes region codes and or other information defining valid destination numbers. In some cases a destination may be determined to be invalid if no communication plan can be identified for the destination number and if no communication plan can be identified for other attributes related to the access. If the destination is determined to not be valid the access is terminated at . If the destination is determined to be valid the method continues to .

At a preferred communication plan is identified for the access. The preferred communication plan may be identified by performing a database lookup using attributes associated with the access. In some cases the preferred communication plan may be configured according to preference specified by the subscriber associated with the identified account. The preferred communication plan may also be configured according to a preference of the account issuer or an administrator of the system.

At a determination is made whether a restriction associated with the preferred communication plan has been encountered. A restriction may be any configured limitation operable to invalidate the use of the preferred communication plan for the current access. For example the preferred communication plan may include a restriction stating that only a certain number of calls can be made using the preferred communication plan in a certain period of time. Calls made after this number is reached and before the end of the time period would encounter the restriction. In another example the preferred communication plan may include a restriction that is only to be used from 2 pm to 4 pm on Friday. Calls made outside this time period would encounter the restriction. In some cases the restrictions may be any conditional expression that will prevent the use of the preferred communication plan when evaluated to be true and may involve any of the attributes associated with a system access or call discussed in the present disclosure. If it is determined that no restriction has been encountered the method continues to and a connection is made to the destination using the preferred communication plan. If a restriction is encountered the method continues to .

At an alternate communication plan is identified. The alternate communication plan may be identified according to the same methods as the preferred communication plan and may be a communication plan with a lower sequence or priority than the preferred communication plan. At the subscriber associated with the access is given the choice of continuing with the alternate communication plan or terminating access. This choice may be presented by playing a voice prompt to the subscriber and collecting one or more digits or a spoken word indicating the subscriber s response. At the subscriber s choice is evaluated. If the subscriber chooses not to continue with the alternate communication plan the method continues to where the access is terminated. If the subscriber chooses to continue with the alternate communication plan the method continues to where the destination is connected to using the alternate communication plan.

At the destination address is associated with the communication plan upon determination that the communication is a completed communication. In some cases associating the destination with the communication plan includes inserting an entry into an associated database table for the destination.

At subsequent calls are permitted to the destination address under the communication plan. For example at a later time another call may have the same communication plan and destination address identified. In this case the communication plan will be applied to the call and the determination whether the number of destination addresses associated with the communication is valid will be skipped. In some cases the destination addresses may only be associated with the communication plan for a certain period of time at which point they will be deactivated or deleted from the database. In such a case the subsequent call would not be permitted to use the communication plan at and would instead be processed through the remainder of method .

In some cases the communication plan is associated with a prepaid pay as you go or subscription monetary value. For example a prepaid subscription monetary value may be an amount a subscriber pays up front for a certain duration of service and a pay as you go prepaid monetary value may be a balance that is decremented for each call minute unit or event on the communication plan and recharged when it reaches zero.

In some implementations the method may include identifying a reset condition associated with the communication plan. Upon the occurrence of the reset condition the destination address may be disassociated from the communication plan. In some cases the reset condition may be configured to occur at a particular time. The reset condition may also be configured to occur after a certain number of communications are permitted to the destination address under the communication plan. The reset condition may also be configured to occur after a certain number of communications are permitted to all destination addresses configured under the communication plan.

In some cases the maximum number of destinations is stored in a database table associated with the communication plan or is an attribute of the communication plan itself. The maximum number of destinations may also be configurable by other account account group geographic region of the destination or any other attribute discussed previously. The maximum number of destinations may also be a global setting application to all calls in a given system.

In some implementations multiple unlimited communication plans may be associated with a given communication. For example there may be a first unlimited plan associated with a first set of destinations and a second unlimited plan associated with a second set of destinations. In some implementations an unlimited plan may be configured to offer the subscriber an option to pre pay for another period of service during the call such as with a credit card. In some instances an unlimited plan may be configured to allow a subscriber to submit for a refund from previous charges.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU a FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU a FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program by way of example can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations any or all of the components of the computing system both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface using an application programming interface API and or a service layer. The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computing system. The functionality of the various components of the computing system may be accessible for all service consumers via this service layer. Software services provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. The API and or service layer may be an integral and or a stand alone component in relation to other components of the computing system. Moreover any or all parts of the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation and or integration of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation and or integration in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

