---

title: Multitouch control of petrotechnical software
abstract: A method can include commencing a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks; initializing one or more touch modules associated with the workflow; accessing data associated with the workflow; rendering one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen; and sensing multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329690&OS=09329690&RS=09329690
owner: SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
number: 09329690
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 609 034 entitled Multitouch Control of Petrotechnical Software filed 9 Mar. 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Various devices include technologies for multitouch input gesture input etc. As an example consider a tablet device that includes a touchscreen that may support touch based gestures for viewing photos where a pinch gesture may resize a photo and a swipe gesture may cause another photo to be presented. In such an example the gestures allow a user to control two basic functions associated with a particular task i.e. viewing photos. Various technologies techniques etc. described herein pertain to controlling functions associated with parallel tasks serial tasks multi user tasks etc. for example which may be part of a workflow or workflows.

A method can include commencing a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks initializing one or more touch modules associated with the workflow accessing data associated with the workflow rendering one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sensing multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. A system can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory that include instructions executable by the processor to instruct the system to commence a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks initialize one or more touch modules associated with the workflow access data associated with the workflow render one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sense multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. One or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing device to commence a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks initialize one or more touch modules associated with the workflow access data associated with the workflow render one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sense multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

In geophysics a process that may be referred to interpretation can include analyzing data for example to generate reasonable models and predictions about the properties and structures of a geologic environment e.g. subsurface properties and structures . As an example one type of data to be interpreted may be seismic data. For example a three dimensional volume of seismic data may be organized by numerous closely spaced seismic lines e.g. inlines and crosslines where spacing aims to provide a high spatially sampled measure of subsurface reflectivity. Such a data volume may be cut transformed processed etc. Interpretation of a seismic volume may include cutting transforming processing etc. as part of an effort to identify geological events geobodies etc. and to locate such features in their proper vertical and horizontal positions. As an example a user may cut a seismic volume to present a two dimensional surface and then identify a feature on that two dimensional surface and then re cut the seismic volume in an effort to identify the same feature in another plane e.g. on another two dimensional surface etc.

As an example interpretation of seismic data may be provided as part of a petrotechnical service for example that may use petrotechnical software to access data analyze data etc. Petrotechnical services may be provided using a team approach for example where various tasks are divided amongst members of the team. In such an example an overall workflow may exist which may change depending on individual tasks performed by team members. Thus collaboration may benefit team members for example to help ensure that appropriate adaptations may take place to the workflow in response to results stemming from the performance of one or more tasks.

As an example consider dividing a seismic volume into eight sectors distributed to eight individuals for interpretation. In such an example a feature may emerge from one sector and continue to another sector. With collaboration an individual may temporarily grab the other sector e.g. a visual representation of seismic data for the other sector and mark it to expedite interpretation of that other sector by another individual. More specifically a touchscreen may provide for rendering multiple views of multiple sectors for example where an individual may perform tasks on one sector while viewing tasks being performed on one or more neighboring sectors. Where multitouch commands are available an individual may for example grab a neighboring sector to assist another individual and in turn expedite the overall workflow.

While the foregoing example mentions individuals performing tasks that may have commonalities petrotechnical services may employ individuals across a broad range of disciplines for example for purposes of reservoir characterization interpretation reservoir and production solutions geomechanics studies rapid evaluations field development planning etc.

As an example petrotechnical services may include geomechanics petrotechnical services e.g. predicting drilling risks maximizing recovery from mature assets etc. unconventional resources petrotechnical services e.g. improving recovery of unconventional resources providing solutions across a project life cycle etc. shale oil petrotechnical services accelerated unconventional play assessment petrotechnical services petrophysics interpretation services e.g. processing interpretation integration of E P data etc. geology interpretation services e.g. borehole imaging services for microresistivity formation images etc. geophysics interpretation services e.g. integrating seismic attribute interpretation and analysis with the results of stratigraphic structural and geochemical analysis to identify prospects etc. etc.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an additional information component e.g. well logging data a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on entities . Entities may include earth entities or geological objects such as wells surfaces reservoirs etc. In the system the entities can include virtual representations of actual physical entities that are reconstructed for purposes of simulation. The entities may include entities based on data acquired via sensing observation etc. e.g. the seismic data and other information .

In an example embodiment the simulation component may rely on a software framework such as an object based framework. In such a framework entities may include entities based on pre defined classes to facilitate modeling and simulation. A commercially available example of an object based framework is the MICROSOFT .NET framework Redmond Wash. which provides a set of extensible object classes. In the .NET framework an object class encapsulates a module of reusable code and associated data structures. Object classes can be used to instantiate object instances for use in by a program script etc. For example borehole classes may define objects for representing boreholes based on well data.

In the example of the simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes specified by the attribute component which may include a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component . Alternatively or in addition the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . In an example embodiment the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

In an example embodiment the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes. Such a framework may be considered an application and may be considered a data driven application e.g. where data is input for purposes of simulating a geologic environment .

As an example the simulation component may include one or more features of a simulator such as the ECLIPSE reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. the INTERSECT reservoir simulator Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. etc. As an example a reservoir or reservoirs may be simulated with respect to one or more enhanced recovery techniques e.g. consider a thermal process such as SAGD etc. . As an example a simulator may accept as input a grid such as for example a structured grid for purposes of simulating one or more physical phenomena. As an example such a structured grid may be generated by transforming a grid in a computational space to a grid in a real space for example where one or more faults have been introduced into the grid in the computational space such that the one or more faults exist in the structured grid in the real space e.g. structured according to an indexing system .

In an example embodiment various aspects of the management components may include add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. In an example embodiment various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. .

The model simulation layer may provide domain objects act as a data source provide for rendering and provide for various user interfaces . Rendering may provide a graphical environment in which applications can display their data while the user interfaces may provide a common look and feel for application user interface components.

In the example of the domain objects can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects. Entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. For example an entity object may represent a well where a property object provides log information as well as version information and display information e.g. to display the well as part of a model .

In the example of data may be stored in one or more data sources or data stores generally physical data storage devices which may be at the same or different physical sites and accessible via one or more networks. The model simulation layer may be configured to model projects. As such a particular project may be stored where stored project information may include inputs models results and cases. Thus upon completion of a workflow task e.g. a workstep a modeling session etc. a user may store a project. At a later time the project can be accessed and restored using the model simulation layer which can recreate instances of the relevant domain objects.

In the example of the geologic environment may be outfitted with any of a variety of sensors detectors actuators etc. For example equipment may include communication circuitry to receive and to transmit information with respect to one or more networks . Such information may include information associated with downhole equipment which may be equipment to acquire information to assist with resource recovery etc. Other equipment may be located remote from a well site and include sensing detecting emitting or other circuitry. Such equipment may include storage and communication circuitry to store and to communicate data instructions etc.

As mentioned the system of may be used to perform one or more tasks workflows etc. For example the system may include a workflow editor module to create edit etc. one or more workflows. As an example the system may include a task e.g. or workstep creator that can create edit etc. one or more tasks e.g. or worksteps . As an example the system may include options to associate a task with one or more multitouch commands which may include gesture commands. For example where a user implements an interpretation tool e.g. as part of a framework to perform a task using a touchscreen the one or more multitouch commands may become available whereas if the user is not using a touchscreen the commands may be available via other means such as a keyboard a mouse a trackball etc. As an example a workflow may be created that provides multitouch command options that can be implemented for use on appropriate multitouch hardware. Such a workflow may be created for performance by an individual or a team for example with appropriate provisions to optionally allow for mixed hardware types e.g. one individual with a touchscreen and another individual with a trackball .

As to types of hardware that may be considered suitable for multitouch input for example consider capacitive resistive acoustic optical embedded and other technologies. As an example a capacitive multitouch device may include circuitry for projected capacitance surface capacitance etc. Touch technology may include circuitry for sensing voltage current ultrasonic waves capacitance change light images force etc. Multitouch may be defined for example as an ability to recognize two or more simultaneous touch points. As described herein multitouch may include time dependent touch or touches which may optionally be performed using a single digit e.g. index finger tapping etc. .

As to the method it includes a touchscreen sensor block that provides information to a controller driver block that can instruct an operating system block to interact with an application block e.g. which may be implemented using software a framework a plug in an API etc. . As an example the touchscreen sensor block may be configured to sense multiple simultaneous points e.g. touches the controller driver block may be configured to deliver sets of simultaneous points to the operation system block to allow the operating system block to forward multiple streams of moving points e.g. and optionally acting on a defined subset thereof to the application block which may be configured to decode the multiple streams of moving points and taking one or more actions in response.

As an example an interface device e.g. for sensing touch may implement one or more operating systems. As an example consider the family of iOS operating systems marketed by Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. under license of a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. San Jose Calif. . As to some other examples one or more of the following operating systems may be implemented WINDOWS OS family Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. ANDROID OS family a trademark of Google Inc. Mountain View Calif. the PALM or Garnet OS family Hewlett Packard Co. Palo Alto Calif. etc.

Software operating on a computing device may include a seismic to simulation software suite such as the PETREL software which may be referred to herein as a framework noting that the PETREL framework is an example as other petrotechnical softwares may include code plug ins APIs etc. for one or more techniques technologies etc. described herein e.g. consider the ECLIPSE the GEOFRAME the INTERSECT the PIPESIM the TECHLOG and the MALCOM families of technologies .

In the example of the screen includes peripheral features that may be referred to as chrome e.g. file menu and top tool bars bottom tool bars and right tool bars and more central features e.g. panes and windows and . As an example a system may act to stream content being rendered to the screen to the screen . As an example such an approach may enhance collaboration where the screen is being used at one location and the screen is being used at another location. As an example a user at the screen may initiate streaming to one or more other screens such as the screen or a user at the screen may initiate streaming from the screen or optionally vice versa. As to streaming techniques a technique may be hardware dependent bandwidth dependent etc. For example where the screen is a screen of a smart phone a data compression technique may compress data prior to transmitting the data via a cellular phone network to the smart phone. As an example image data may be streamed rather than underlying data. As an example where a screen renders vector processed data streaming may stream the data and vector instructions for remote processing or optionally for example stream an image of rendered vector processed data e.g. consider a print screen command that captures a screen image that may then be communicated for rendering at another device . As an example streaming may include pixel or voxel streaming.

As an example streaming may include streaming content without chrome. For example content of the window of the screen may be streamed to the screen without the one or more pieces of chrome see e.g. items and . As an example streaming may include streaming a portion of a screen. For example either of the window or the window may be streamed and rendered on the screen .

As an example a system may include a remote device e.g. a tablet device with a touchscreen for input of touches that are streamed to controllers on another device e.g. a desktop computer for manipulating views taking actions etc. which in turn after performed may cause one or more visualizations stemming from the input to be replicated on the remote device e.g. consider camera manipulation touches being input on a remote device where graphics computing is performed on another device and a final result streamed to the remote device .

As an example a view may include one or more camera for example to provide for different perspectives. As an example a touch may be input to control position and focal distance of a camera. As an example a seek gesture e.g. a double tap may changes two degrees of freedom a pan in the view plane etc. As an example where an object may be positioned off center in a screen a seek gesture may cause the object to be rendered to center optionally with zoom e.g. at pre defined length .

As to the method it includes an initiation block a command block and a next block . In the example of the command block provides a command responsive to a two finger drag for panning a 3D camera. As an example the method may be initiated via the initiation block and a two finger drag sensed inside a 3D window to result in a command per the command block that causes panning of a 3D camera. In such an example A x y and B x y may represent contact points for each of the two fingers and C x y may be the bisector of the vector AB. In such an example C x y and C x y represent where the initial contact was made and broken respectively with Cx and Cy being the scalar distances in screen space of the gesture. In such an example the delta values may be normalized to window dimensions in screen space and multiplied by a configurable constant D that determines the sensitivity of the gesture. The X and Y values may then be used to generate a transition matrix which may then be multiplied by an existing camera matrix to update the view.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example a CRM block may be a module for example such as a module as in the one or more modules of the system . In such an example the system may be implemented to perform at least in part the method of .

As an example a workflow component may include associated sets of parameters that may optionally be selected for example using a workflow editor a workstep creator e.g. task creator etc. As an example such a workflow component may include discovery code to discovery a type of hardware for example to determine whether a touchscreen is available for use in performing the workflow and optionally the types of touches gestures etc. that may be input using that touchscreen see e.g. the blocks and of the method of .

Referring again to the system of as mentioned the framework may include the domain objects which may include can include entity objects property objects and optionally other objects where entity objects may be used to geometrically represent wells surfaces reservoirs etc. while property objects may be used to provide property values as well as data versions and display parameters. As an example a property object may include one or more parameters associated with a touchscreen setting e.g. touchscreen touch capabilities etc. . As an example a touch module may be configured as a plug in for example that can plug into a framework e.g. consider the aforementioned OCEAN framework .

As an example a system may provide for multitouch gestures to control cameras in a 2D or a 3D window slide in touch friendly menus touch e.g. or active stylus to perform domain specific workflow interpretation multitouch gestures to directly manipulate domain objects multitouch gestures to trigger one or more tasks e.g. optionally global tasks . As an example where a screen displays multiple panels touches such as a three finger downward swipe may cause the panels to tile vertically while a three finger upward swipe may cause the panels to tile horizontally. In such an example a three finger tap may cause the panels to be displayed e.g. view all .

As shown in the example of the tools menu and the help menu may be organized as tiles which may optionally be user selectable as to their positions. As an example where a task or tasks are to be performed and where touch hardware is available the tools menu and or the help menu may be pre arranged for that task or those tasks. As an example where a workflow is a collaborative workflow the tools menu and or the help menu may be pre arranged to enhance collaboration. For example a tool listed in the tools menu may provide for rendering of a current workflow tree that indicates what tasks have been performed what tasks are being performed who is performing tasks etc. As an example a tool listed in the tools menu may provide for rendering one or more views being rendered on another screen e.g. a remote screen . As an example a tool listed in the tools menu may provide for sharing one or more views being rendered on the screen e.g. for input of remote touches . As an example a workflow editor module executable on a system such as the system may provide for selecting arranging etc. one or more tools of a tools menu one or more help items for a help menu one or more keyboard options e.g. language symbols specialized keys etc. etc.

As an example a displayed keyboard may flick up from bottom edge of screen left or right hand friendly be displayed in a common location and be displayed in a size and orientation optimal for a screen. As an example character based keys such as a or 7 may function when pressed to a send key command that is transmitted to a last triggered software. As an example a keyboard may enable light use touch based text input machine. As an example a keyboard may allow a user to free workspace by stowing of physical keyboard for example to improve desktop workspace ergonomics to simplify a collaborative environment etc.

As an example a flick is a multiple touch for example where multiple touches are sensed over a portion of a touchscreen with respect to a period of time e.g. a time window . In such an example a flick may include a direction which may be approximated as being linear. As an example a flick may include a velocity an acceleration etc. While a flick is mentioned as being a multiple touch other types of touches or gestures may likewise be considered multiple touches e.g. a single finger clockwise or counter clockwise gesture etc. .

As an example when implemented in a workflow a slide in keyboard may provide for writing one or more annotations messaging labeling a data object entering numeric and or character variables.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example a CRM block may be a module for example such as a module as in the one or more modules of the system . In such an example the system may be implemented to perform at least in part the method of .

As an example a method for a workflow may include selecting a workstep class defining input and output arguments linking the workstep class and the arguments e.g. for creating an instance of the workstep class with such arguments and adding the workstep to the workflow. In such an example a touch module may include one or more touch classes which may also be linked such that the added workstep includes touch functionality e.g. for interacting with that workstep upon its instantiation and use . As an example where a workstep class is predefined as to its input output etc. one or more touch modules may be linked to provide touch functionality for a workstep associated with the workstep class. As an example one or more touch modules may be linked to a task e.g. workstep for example via a user interface UI argument. For example a UI argument value may act to direct executable code to one or more touch modules tables etc. such that touch functionality becomes available during execution of that code. As an example a touch module may include information to provide a UI or UIs with one or more menus a keyboard touch functionality collaboration features etc.

As an example a simulation may be performed using a simulator see e.g. various components of the system of that simulates condensate with respect to time and space e.g. using a 4D simulation model . As to the task it includes rendering a visualization of the portion of the well bore along with simulation results that indicate condensate concentration for example about the horizontal segment of the wellbore. In such an example the simulation model may be a grid based model that includes volumetric grid elements where each element may be assigned a value based on the simulation results. Rendering of such elements may yield a blocky opaque view such as the view associated with the task .

As to the task the hand is shown as interacting with the panel of the screen to adjust one or more parameters that control how the simulation results are rendered to the screen . In the example of the user touches a point in the panel above a portion of the color scale to adjust the opacity value or values for that portion of the color scale . The user may touch as many portions of the panel as desired to achieve a rendering of the simulation results for example to facilitate interpretation of the simulation results . In such an example a user may readily touch and view touch and view etc. to gain a better understanding of the simulation results . Such touches may be to the panel to the visualization of the simulation results etc. For example a user may rotate the portion of the wellbore and adjust one or more opacity levels for one or more portions of the color scale. As an example a user may use two hands for example a left hand for touching the panel to control how simulation results are rendered and a right hand for touching the visualization of the simulation results to orient them e.g. via a camera a zoom in a zoom out a pan etc. .

As to the task well logs associated with the wells and are rendered to provide a visualization of well logs where each well log is displayed with respect to depth on a vertical axis and a measured value on a horizontal axis. The task can include implementing a well log camera that is configured for control via touches such as multiple touches e.g. multitouches for example to control rendering of one or more well logs. As an example touches for a well log camera may include two finger drag to pan e.g. horizontal and vertical two finger pinch with vertical tendency in a log track to adjust a vertical scale two finger pinch with horizontal tendency in a log track to adjust a horizontal scale a single finger drag in a log track to pan the log up and down etc. In the example of the task includes an outwardly directed spanning of two fingers to enlarge the well logs for wells and to generate a visualization of the well logs for example to perform the task .

As to the task touches may be made to a touchscreen at a particular point on each of the well logs for the wells and for example where the touches correspond to a feature in each of the well logs that may be associated with a geological layer e.g. a layer of sediment etc. . As shown in the visualization the features are at different depths in each of the well logs for example because a geological layer that gives rise to the feature may be sloping within a geologic environment. Upon entry of touches to identify a suspected common feature a well log analysis module may connect the features via a line and for example define a plane based on the three depth locations.

As an example one or more users may touch one or more touchscreens such that touch circuitry of the one or more touchscreens performs touch sensing and translates sensed touch to issue one or more commands to control petrotechnical software e.g. a petrotechnical framework etc. . As an example given a touchscreen and rendering of well logs on the touchscreen one or more users may touch individual well logs e.g. log tracks to adjust a depth a depth range etc. As an example one or more of the users may perform a pinch gesture that can be sensed by touch circuitry of the touchscreen to adjust a depth a depth range etc. of a well log or well logs. In such a manner a user may scroll to a depth for a well log e.g. a beginning depth an end depth etc. of a well log and then enlarge a portion of that well log for example to assess a feature e.g. a change in amplitude etc. in well log data .

As to the task a two finger swipe may advance data in a data set such as a seismic volume. For example where a seismic volume is organized by seismic lines e.g. inlines and crosslines a swipe may advance along one of those lines by issuing a command to access the appropriate data and to render a visualization of that data to the right region . As an example a swipe from right to left may increment to a higher number line while a swipe from left to right may decrement to a lower number line. As an example where a volume of data is sliced at an angle that is not aligned with an axis defining the data e.g. an inline or a crossline or a depth or time an algorithm may access appropriate data to present another slice that is parallel to a rendered slice. For example such an algorithm may be defined with respect to an inward or outward normal to the slice where incrementing or decrementing occurs for a particular distance along the inward or outward normal.

As to the task a user may use her hand to touch the rendered view of the seismic slice in the right region such that sensing of the touch by touch circuitry of the touchscreen causes rendering of one or more seismic slices and in the left region . As an example touches in the seismic slice in the right region may issue commands for rendering one or more orthogonal slices in the left region . For example the touchscreen may sense a series of vertical touches issue a command to access data for a seismic slice along a seismic line e.g. an inline or a crossline and then render a visualization of the data in the left region . As an example the slice rendered in the left view may correspond to the slice in the right view .

As to the task a finger swipe may cause a tool menu to be rendered in the left region and a finger tap may cause activation of a tool listed in the tool menu . As mentioned where a seismic volume is organized by seismic lines e.g. inlines and crosslines a swipe may advance along one of those lines by issuing a command to access the appropriate data and to render a visualization of that data to the right region . As an example an upward swipe may increment to a higher number line while a downward swipe may decrement to a lower number line.

As to the task a user may use his hand to touch one of the slices and in the left region such that sensing of the touch by touch circuitry of the touchscreen increments to a higher number line and renders a slice for that higher number line e.g. while maintaining the other slice in a stationary position . As an example a user may rotate the slices and in the left region e.g. about their intersection and then touch one of the slices and such that sensing of the touch by touch circuitry of the touchscreen decrements to a lower number line and renders a slice for that lower number line e.g. while maintaining the other slice in a stationary position . As an example the left and right regions and may be linked such that a change to a slice in one region is carried over to the other region. For example if a user increments a slice number in the left region the corresponding slice may be rendered in the right region e.g. and vice versa .

As an example a feature in a data set may be represented by a domain object. In such an example the task may include manipulating one or more domain objects e.g. within a framework .

As an example upon selection of the tool tile information may be rendered as indicated by a panel that may include content one or more settings etc. e.g. consider the panel of . As an example upon selection of the menu tile information may be rendered as indicated by a panel that may include content e.g. text image video etc. one or more settings one or more hyperlinks etc.

As an example a graphic control e.g. a tile button etc. on a menu may be linked to a macro function. For example a tile named New Fault Interpretation may create an interpretation window load a default seismic plane commence a seismic interpretation process create a new interpretation folder add a new fault to that folder and enter a Fault Interpretation mode.

As an example a help menu can include tiles e.g. buttons that have an illustration and a label. For example where the illustration and the label describe a help subject e.g. tile panels vertically etc. . As an example a gesture such as a three finger flick may cause a help menu to slide in to view.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media CRM blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device or system to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method . As an example a computer readable medium CRM may be a computer readable storage medium. As an example a CRM block may be a module for example such as a module as in the one or more modules of the system . In such an example the system may be implemented to perform at least in part the method of .

As an example various types of touches may be associated with actions e.g. commands etc. . As an example one or more tables may be provided that associate touches with various types of actions e.g. commands etc. . As an example a touch module see e.g. the one or more modules of the system of may include a set or sets of associations e.g. between touches and actions . As an example a touch module may include a set or sets of associations organized as or organizable in a table format. As an example a touch module may be implemented as a layer in a hierarchy such as a hierarchy for the method of . In such an example as a task changes in a workflow a touch module may change within the hierarchy where that touch module may be specific to that task. As an example where a touchscreen renders information to different regions of a touchscreen each of the regions may be controlled via different touch modules e.g. a touch module for a planar view region and a touch module for a perspective view region .

Some examples of tables appear below for tap gestures hold gestures swipe gestures flick gestures rotate gestures scale gestures scroll gestures anchor gestures and 3D gestures.

As an example a method may include an editor for associating one or more touch modules with a task. For example an editor may include a menu for one or more of the aforementioned gestures. As an example predefined actions may be provided e.g. as suggested actions default actions etc. which may be editable for example to customize one or more gestures and actions for a task or tasks. For example entries in the right columns of the foregoing tables may be editable to select other actions make other associations etc. e.g. noting that the same may be available for entries in the left columns .

As an example an editor to edit touch and action associations may be a plug in or included as part of a workflow editor for example which may be configured to define select edit etc. one or more tasks e.g. worksteps that form a workflow see e.g. the workflow of . As an example consider a workstep that takes input and creates a result via an algorithm for example where one or more of the input the algorithm the result etc. may be subject to one or more touches e.g. via a touchscreen or touchscreens with one or more associated actions. In such an example the one or more touches and one or more associated actions may optionally be configured using the workflow editor.

As an example a method can include commencing a petrotechnical analysis workflow e.g. that includes a plurality of tasks initializing one or more touch modules associated with the workflow accessing data associated with the workflow rendering one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sensing multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. In such an example the one or more touch modules may associate touches and actions for each of the plurality of tasks.

As an example a method can include responsive to sensing multiple touches rendering a menu of items to a region of the touchscreen. For example a method may include rendering a menu selected from one of a plurality of different menus associated with a workflow. As an example the menu may be associated with one of a plurality of tasks of the workflow and include items e.g. tool items help items etc. for performing that task.

As an example a method can include responsive to sensing multiple touches rendering a panel to a region of a touchscreen where the panel includes one or more visualization controls e.g. rendering controls such as opacity controls etc. . In such an example the rendered panel can include a touchable region for adjusting one or more opacity values for rendering of data values. As an example for simulation results sensing of touches to the panel may alter a visualization of the simulation results e.g. in real time or near real time .

As an example a method can include providing e.g. or accessing volume data for a reservoir organized with respect to three axes rendering a visualization of a portion of the volume data and sensing multiple touches e.g. a swipe that controls traversing at least one of the three axes of the volume data to render another visualization of at least another portion of the volume data.

As an example a method can include rendering a first visualization to a first region of a touchscreen and rendering a second visualization to a second region of the touchscreen. In such an example one or more touch modules can include a first set of touch associations for the first visualization and a second set of touch associations for the second visualization e.g. where the first set differs from the second set . As an example one set may be for a planar visualization and another set may be for a perspective visualization.

As an example a method can include rendering well logs to a touchscreen. In such an example the method may include sensing multiple touches via the touchscreen to sense multiple touches for controlling one or more actions associated with the well logs e.g. according to a touch module being a well logs module that associates multiple touches with one or more actions for analyzing well logs . As an example such a method may include initializing the touch module as part of a well logs analysis task of a workflow.

As an example a method can include rendering a visualization of a seismic slice of a seismic data volume and sensing multiple touches via a touchscreen for controlling selection of the seismic slice.

As an example a system can include a processor memory operatively coupled to the processor and one or more modules stored in the memory that include instructions executable by the processor to instruct the system to commence a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks initialize one or more touch modules associated with the workflow access data associated with the workflow render one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sense multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules. Such a system may include touch modules for sets of associations between multiple touches and actions.

As an example one or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing device to commence a petrotechnical analysis workflow that includes a plurality of tasks initialize one or more touch modules associated with the workflow access data associated with the workflow render one or more visualizations of the data to a touchscreen and sense multiple touches via the touchscreen for controlling one or more actions associated with the workflow according to the one or more touch modules

In an example embodiment components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

As an example a device may be a mobile device that includes one or more network interfaces for communication of information. For example a mobile device may include a wireless network interface e.g. operable via IEEE 802.11 ETSI GSM BLUETOOTH satellite etc. . As an example a mobile device may include components such as a main processor memory a display display graphics circuitry e.g. optionally including touch and gesture circuitry a SIM slot audio video circuitry motion processing circuitry e.g. accelerometer gyroscope wireless LAN circuitry smart card circuitry transmitter circuitry GPS circuitry and a battery. As an example a mobile device may be configured as a cell phone a tablet etc. As an example a method may be implemented e.g. wholly or in part using a mobile device. As an example a system may include one or more mobile devices.

As an example a system may be a distributed environment for example a so called cloud environment where various devices components etc. interact for purposes of data storage communications computing etc. As an example a device or a system may include one or more components for communication of information via one or more of the Internet e.g. where communication occurs via one or more Internet protocols a cellular network a satellite network etc. As an example a method may be implemented in a distributed environment e.g. wholly or in part as a cloud based service .

As an example information may be input from a display e.g. consider a touchscreen output to a display or both. As an example information may be output to a projector a laser device a printer etc. such that the information may be viewed. As an example information may be output stereographically or holographically. As to a printer consider a 2D or a 3D printer. As an example a 3D printer may include one or more substances that can be output to construct a 3D object. For example data may be provided to a 3D printer to construct a 3D representation of a subterranean formation. As an example layers may be constructed in 3D e.g. horizons etc. geobodies constructed in 3D etc. As an example holes fractures etc. may be constructed in 3D e.g. as positive structures as negative structures etc. .

Although only a few example embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the example embodiments without materially departing from a radial bearing assembly or assemblies for a centrifugal pump. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures. It is the express intention of the applicant not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6 for any limitations of any of the claims herein except for those in which the claim expressly uses the words means for together with an associated function.

The following document is incorporated by reference herein US Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0144306 A1 entitled Method and system for interacting or collaborating with exploration published 7 Jun. 2012 to Moody et al.

