---

title: Method and system for providing scheduling suggestions
abstract: A system, computer-readable storage medium storing at least one program, and computer-implemented method for providing scheduling suggestions to a user. A collection of intention objects is accessed. Each of the intention objects is a data structure comprising a plurality of activity attributes of an intention of a user to undertake an activity. Calendar data from a calendar of the user is accessed and an available time slot on the calendar is determined. In response to determining the available time slot, a suggested intention object is selected from the collection of intention objects based on a plurality of activity attributes of the suggested intention object. A scheduling suggestion is then presented to the user. The scheduling suggestion may include a suggestion to schedule an activity associated with the suggested intention object in the available time slot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348897&OS=09348897&RS=09348897
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09348897
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130807
---
Example embodiments of the present application generally relate to task management and more particularly to a system and method for providing intelligent task management services to users.

Classically task management involved creating and maintaining one or more paper to do lists. With the proliferation of mobile computing task management is now typically handled electronically by way of task management software tools. Traditional task management software tools allow users to manage multiple tasks on multiple task lists share tasks with other users set alerts and reminders for certain tasks and prioritize tasks based on the wishes of the user.

The task lists of traditional task management tools are often outdated unstructured and incomplete or unmanageably long. The information for describing individual tasks is often scant containing little more than a subject and a due date. As a result the tasks on these lists are often mismanaged and quickly become irrelevant or moot due to the passing of time or a change in other circumstances. Further although these task management tools allow users to schedule tasks they do not assist users in determining when to schedule certain tasks or how to prioritize each task on the list of tasks. Moreover traditional task management tools do not assist users in tracking available time at which one or more tasks may be performed. Additionally traditional task management tools provide little assistance to users in actually undertaking or completing the tasks on the task lists.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific example embodiments for carrying out the inventive subject matter. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood that it is not intended to limit the scope of the claims to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter. Embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In addition well known features may not have been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject matter.

In accordance with the present disclosure components process steps and or data structures may be implemented using various types of operating systems programming languages computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose or nature such as hardwired devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the concepts disclosed herein. Embodiments may also be tangibly embodied as a set of computer instructions stored on a computer readable medium such as a memory device.

Aspects of the present disclosure describe systems and methods for intelligent task management services including generating an intention object. In example embodiments the method may include obtaining activity data that defines a plurality of activity attributes of an intention of a user to undertake an activity and obtaining content data including one or more content items related to undertaking the activity. The plurality of activity attributes may include temporal attributes defining time constraints related to the intended activity and contextual attributes that identify contexts related to the intended activity. The data may be obtained from user input or from one or more communications received by the user related to the activity. In some embodiments the plurality of activity attributes may also include categorical attributes defining a category or type of activity and dependency attributes related to one or more associated activities or users.

Consistent with this embodiment an intention object may be generated based on the plurality of activity attributes. The intention object may comprise a data structure including the plurality of activity attributes and the content data. The method may further include inferring an additional attribute of the intention object and updating the intention objects based on the additional object. Each generated intention object may simultaneously reside in an intention object collection and one or more communications e.g. email calendar invite etc. or calendar event. Each generated intention object may have a number of different actions that may be taken with regard to the intention objects themselves e.g. sharing via email and a number of different executable actions that may be executed with regard to the respective activities of the intention object. A particular intention object may persist regardless of the actions taken with respect to that object.

As an illustrative example a user may receive an email confirming a dentist appointment at the dentist s office that same day at 2 30 PM. The system may then analyze the email to obtain the activity attributes defining the user s intended activity which in this example is the dentist appointment. The activity attributes obtained from the email may include the date and time of the appointment e.g. a temporal attribute and the location of the appointment e.g. a contextual attribute which in this case is the dentist s office. An intention object including these obtained activity attributes may then be created. A travel time e.g. an additional attribute of 15 minutes may then be inferred based on the current location of the user and the location of the dentist s office. The intention object may then be updated to include the inferred attributes.

Aspects of the present disclosure describe systems and methods for intelligent task management services including selectively presenting a user with a collection of intention objects. In example embodiments the method may include accessing a collection of intention objects belonging to the user. Each of the intention objects may comprise a data structure including a plurality of activity attributes of an intended activity. The plurality of activity attributes may comprise temporal attributes and contextual attributes including a location associated with the intended activity.

Consistent with this embodiment the method may also include determining a relevancy rank for each of the collection of intention objects based on the plurality of activity attributes corresponding to each intention object. The relevancy rank indicates a suggested order in which the user undertakes each of the respective activities. Upon determining the relevancy rank of each intention object one or more intention objects with a relevancy rank above a predefined threshold are identified. Graphical representations of the above threshold intention objects may be presented to the user in a free form spatial interface. In some embodiments the identified intention objects may be presented to a user in an order listed with the order of the intention objects determined based on the respective relevancy rank.

Continuing with the example presented above in addition to the dentist appointment intention object the user may have created an additional intention object for rearranging his sock drawer which includes a temporal attribute indicating that the duration of this activity is 30 minutes. The user may have created another intention object for a date with his wife at a time and location to be determined at a later time. The user s collection of intention objects may thus comprise the intention objects for the dentist appointment rearranging the sock drawer and the date with his wife. A relevancy rank is then determined for each intention object and assuming each intention object is above the predefined threshold a graphical representation of each intention object is presented to the user in a free form spatial canvas. If the user is home and it is before 1 15 PM the rearranging sock drawer intention object may have the highest relevancy ranking followed by the dentist office intention object and then finally the date with his wife. The intention objects may be presented to the user in this order in an ordered list.

In some embodiments the method may also include determining an updated relevancy rank for each intention object and identifying a particular intention object with an updated relevancy rank that is below the threshold. In response to the particular intention object being below the threshold the particular intention object is removed from the free form spatial interface and from the ordered list.

Following the above example an updated relevancy ranking for each intention object may be determined in response to the time of day being later than the dentist appointment without the user indicating that the dentist appointment was completed. The updated relevancy rank of the dentist appointment may then be determined to be below the predefined threshold. As a result the graphical representation of the dentist appointment intention object may be removed from the free form spatial interface.

Aspects of the present disclosure describe systems and methods for intelligent task management services including providing scheduling suggestions to a user. In example embodiments the method may include accessing a collection of intention objects belonging to the user. Each of the intention objects may be comprised of a data structure including a plurality of activity attributes defining an intention of the user to undertake an intended activity. The plurality of activity attributes may comprise temporal attributes and contextual attributes including a location associated with the intended activity.

Consistent with this embodiment the method may also include accessing calendar data from a calendar of the user and determining an available time slot on the calendar. In response to determining the available time slot a suggested intention object is selected from the collection of intention objects. The selection of the suggested intention object may be based on one or more of the plurality of activity attributes of the suggested intention object. The user may then be provided a scheduling suggestion including a suggestion to schedule the activity associated with the suggested intention object in the available time slot. In response to receiving approval of the suggestion by the user the activity is scheduled in the available time slot.

Following the example from above the calendar of the user may be accessed and it may be determined that the user currently has a 30 minute opening in his schedule. If the user is home e.g. the location of his sock drawer the user may then be provided with a suggestion to rearrange his sock drawer. Upon approval from the user the rearranging of the sock drawer activity may be scheduled on the user s calendar. Alternatively it may be determined that the user has a 2 hour opening in his schedule later that day. The user may then be provided a suggestion to schedule a date with his wife during that available time slot. Upon approval from the user the date with his wife may be scheduled on the user s calendar.

The network system may include a data exchange platform where clients may communicate and exchange data within the network system . The data exchange platform may provide server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet to one or more client devices and and to one or more third party servers . The client devices and may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform or operating system e.g. iOS Android etc. . The client devices and may for example be any of a variety of types of devices including a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a personal navigation device PND a handheld computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a notebook computer a wearable computing device or other type of movable device.

The client devices and may communicate with the communication network via a connection . Depending on the form of the client device and any of a variety of types of connections and communication networks may be used. For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection such as an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

The one or more client devices may be operated by the users of the data exchange platform to exchange data over the network . In various embodiments the data exchanges within the network system may be facilitated by one or more interface modules . The interface modules are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The interface modules may receive requests from various client computing devices and communicate appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests.

In various embodiments the interfaces provided by the interface modules depend on the particular client device being used. For example the web server may provide web interfaces to the client device using web client . The API server may provide programmatic access to the client device using a programmatic client such as a client application or to a third party server e.g. one or more servers or client devices hosting a third party application . The third party application may use information retrieved from the data exchange platform to support one or more features or functions on a website hosted by the third party. In some embodiments the data exchange platform may use information retrieved from a third party website hosted by the third party server to support one or more task management features discussed herein. The third party website may for example provide one or more calendaring or communication e.g. email services that are supported by the relevant applications of the data exchange platform .

The application servers host one or more of the task management services discussed herein. The application servers may be coupled via the interface modules to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. The application servers are in turn coupled to one or more database server s that facilitate access to one or more database s . In some examples the application servers can access the database s directly without the need for a database server . In some embodiments the databases may include databases both internal and external to the data exchange platform .

As illustrated in the modules forming the task management application may include an intention object generation module s calendar module s email client module s intention object collection and relevancy ranking module s . It will be appreciated that one or more of the various modules forming the task management application may be combined into a single module. Further in some embodiments one or more modules may be omitted and additional modules may also be included. Additionally while the modules illustrated in are discussed below in the plural sense it should be noted that a single version of the module may be utilized.

The intention object generation modules may be configured to generate intention objects. In some embodiments the intention object generation modules may generate an intention object in response to and based on user input entered via a user interface provided by the interface modules . Consistent with this embodiment a user may specify a plurality of activity attributes that may define an intended activity. The plurality of activity attributes may collectively define an intention of the user to undertake an activity. The plurality of activity attributes may for example include a title an activity or task temporal attributes contextual attributes and other content. Further details of the data elements and information forming an intention object are discussed below in reference to .

In some embodiments the intention object generation module may obtain activity data defining one or more activity attributes from one or more communications e.g. email calendar invitations instant messages text messages etc. received by the user. For example as illustrated in the intention object generation module may retrieve a calendar event from one or more calendar modules . The intention object generation module may analyze and parse the retrieved calendar event to determine the one or more attributes from the information contained therein. The intention object generation module may also infer one or more additional attributes based on the determined one or more attributes.

The source of the calendar data used by the calendar modules may be one or more databases or a storage medium contained in the client device . The calendar data may alternatively be retrieved via API from one or more third party calendar applications or services hosted by the third party server .

As illustrated in the intention object generation module may alternatively obtain the one or more attributes from an email from email client modules . The email may be automatically obtained from the email client modules or in response to user input. In some embodiments the email is automatically retrieved by the intention object generation module based on the content of the email . As with the calendar event the intention object generation module may analyze and parse the retrieved email to determine the one or more attributes from the information contained therein. The intention object generation module may also be configured to infer one or more additional attributes based on the one or more attributes.

The source of the email obtained from the email client modules may be one or more databases or a storage medium contained in the client device . The email may alternatively be retrieved via API from one or more third party email applications or services e.g. Gmail Hotmail Y mail etc. hosted by the third party server .

Each intention object generated by the intention object generation module may be added to an intention object collection . Each user of the data exchange platform may have a corresponding intention object collection . The intention object collection may be stored in one or more databases and subsequently accessed by a client device e.g. client device of the user. In some embodiments the intention object collection may be stored locally in a machine readable storage medium of the client device.

Intention objects included in the intention object collection may be stored in either an inactive or active state. The state of each intention object may be based on a relevancy rank determined by a relevancy ranking modules . The relevancy rank may provide an indication of a suggested order in which the user undertakes each respective activity of the collection of intention objects. The relevancy rank of each intention object may be determined based on the one or more attributes comprising the intention object. Intention objects with a relevancy rank above a predefined threshold e.g. above threshold intention objects may be placed in an active state. Active state intention objects included in the intention object collection may be presented to a user via a user interface provided by the interface modules . Conversely intention objects with a relevancy rank below a predefined threshold may be placed in an inactive state and may not be displayed to the user.

The calendar modules may provide a number of scheduling and calendaring services to users. To this end the calendar modules may provide a calendar interface that enables users to view add and remove calendar events to particular dates and times. Calendar events may be generated based on user input or based on one or more intention objects. In some embodiments an intention object may be added to the calendar of a user based on user input. For example a user operating a client device with a touch sensitive display may add a particular intention object to the calendar via a single touch gesture e.g. a swipe a touch etc. . In some embodiments the calendar modules may access the collection of intention objects and select one or more intention objects to be automatically scheduled as a calendar event based on the one or more attributes of the intention object.

Consistent with some embodiments the calendar modules may be configured to access calendar data of a user and analyze the data to determine open time slots in the schedule of the user. The calendar modules may subsequently access the intention object collection and select one or more intention objects to suggest to the user for scheduling in the open time slot. The one or more intention objects may then be scheduled as calendar events in response to receiving the approval of the user. The scheduled calendar events may include the activity attributes and may maintain a reference to the intention object.

The email client modules may host an email inbox for each user and provide a number of email services to each user including for example sending receiving accepting storing and archiving emails from other users and other organizations. The email client modules may also provide users the ability to mark emails in the inbox of the user as read or unread as well as provide the ability to add customized labels to each email. The email client modules may also enable users to share intention objects with one another. The sharing of an intention object may allow other users to simply view the intention object of another user or the sharing of the intention object may be an invitation to attend an event or activity associated with the intention object. When shared with an additional user all of the content and attributes of the shared intention object may be included in the communication to the additional user.

In some embodiments the sharing of the intention object is an assignment of an activity or task associated with the intention object to an additional user or group of users. Consistent with this embodiment an intention object included in an intention object collection corresponding to a first user when shared with a second user may automatically be added to the intention object collection corresponding to the second user.

The task management applications may also include one or more communication modules not shown which may be used for generation and delivery of messages e.g. suggestions notifications reminders to users of the data exchange platform . The communication modules may utilize any one of a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example the communication modules may deliver push notifications electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages.

As illustrated in the intention object is a data structure comprising an activity identifier a plurality of activity attributes e.g. temporal attributes contextual attributes categorical attributes dependency attributes and content data . The activity identifier may identify the particular activity the user intends to undertake. The activity identifier may be a title a name or any other set of words used to refer to the intended activity. The activity may be any action movement task or other work to be performed by the user. The activity may be a one time occurrence or in some embodiments a recurring activity that is performed at predefined intervals. By way of non limiting example the activity may be a work project a household errand e.g. house cleaning grocery shopping etc. a phone call to be placed a meeting or presentation an email note or letter to be drafted or the like.

The plurality of activity attributes may define the intention of the user to undertake the activity identified by the activity identifier . The activity identifier may be a title a name or any other set of words used to refer to the activity. The plurality of activity attributes may include temporal attributes contextual attributes and categorical attributes . The temporal attributes define time constraints relating to the activity. The temporal attributes may for example include a creation date a completion date a start time an end time a deadline or due date a frequency for reoccurring activities a duration of time necessary for undertaking an activity a reminder date or time a travel time and an amount of time spent performing the activity. The precision and granularity of each of the temporal attributes may be progressively refined based on user input. For example a user may specify a time constraint as an exact time e.g. at 7 26 a.m. an approximate time e.g. at breakfast a time range e.g. between 4 00 p.m. and 5 00 p.m. an exact date e.g. on Aug. 16 2014 an approximate date e.g. in a couple weeks from today a date range e.g. between Jul. 9 2013 and Jul. 11 2013 or a season e.g. summer 2013 .

The contextual attributes identify at least one context relating to the activity. The context may be the circumstances that form a setting relevant to the undertaking or completion for an activity. The contextual attributes may for example include a location a mental state of the user a proximity to another user a mode of transportation or a particular environmental setting.

The categorical attributes include one or more categories or types of activities. In some embodiments the category is based on one or more of the temporal attributes. For example an intention object with an activity that may depend on a relatively long period of time to complete may be classified as a long term intention object. In contrast an intention object with an activity that may require only a relatively short period of time may be classified as a short term intention object. In some embodiments the category may be based on one or more contextual attributes. For example an intention object with an activity that must be undertaken at the home of the user may be classified as a household errand. 

As illustrated in the intention object may also include dependency attributes . Dependency attributes relate to dependencies of the intention object and on other intention objects or additional users. The intention object may be associated with or depend on one or more additional intention objects. The intention object may depend on the additional intention object such that the activity of the intention object must be undertaken or completed prior to the activity of the additional intention object. In the case of multiple dependencies the dependency attributes may also provide an indication of the order in which the activities are to be undertaken. In some embodiments this order is determined based on the relevancy rank calculated by the relevancy ranking module . In some embodiments the intention object may depend on an activity action or event that does not correspond to an intention object.

In some embodiments the dependency attributes of the intention object may also include information related to one or more additional users related to or important for undertaking the activity. In some embodiments the activity or task may be assigned to the one or more additional users. The dependency attributes may include an identifier of the one or more additional users such as a name a title an email address a phone number an employee identification number or any other information that may uniquely identify the one or more users.

As illustrated in the intention object may also include content data . The content data may include one or more content items or files associated with the activity. By way of non limiting example the content data may include a link or list of links associated with the intention an attached file or collection of files and one or more reminders to undertake the activity. In some embodiments the content data may be content that is needed for the user to complete the activity. For example an intention object corresponding to an intention of a user to create a presentation may include a template file for the presentation as part of the content data .

At operation activity data defining a plurality of activity attributes of an intention of a user to undertake an activity is obtained. The plurality of activity attributes may include at least one temporal attribute defining a time constraint relating to the intended activity and at least one contextual attribute identifying a context relating to the intended activity.

In some embodiments the activity data defining the plurality of activity attributes may be obtained from a user via a user interface provided by the interface modules . In other embodiments the obtaining of the activity data comprises obtaining a communication e.g. a calendar event an email a text message an instant message a phone call etc. related to the activity and parsing the communication to determine the one or more activity attributes.

At operation content data is obtained. The content data may define one or more content items related to or required for the undertaking of the activity. In some embodiments the content data may be obtained from a user. In embodiments where the one or more attributes are determined from a communication related to the activity the communication may be automatically included as part of the content data.

At operation an intention object is generated based on the plurality of activity attributes. The generated intention object may comprise a data structure including the plurality of activity attributes and the one or more content items.

At operation an additional attribute of the intention object is inferred based on the plurality of activity attributes. In some embodiments the additional attribute is a categorical attribute. In some embodiments the inferring of the additional attribute is based on a physical location of the user. For example if the contextual attributes of a particular intention object indicate that the activity is to be undertaken at a first location but the user is in a second location the travel time for the activity may be inferred based on the location of the user.

In some embodiments the inferring of the additional attribute is based on a particular client device being used by the user. For example users with multiple devices may have certain devices for personal use and other devices for business use. If a user initiates the generation of an intention object from a device that is for personal use it may be inferred that the intention object is in the category of household errands. Thus a categorical attribute may be inferred.

At operation the intention object is updated to include the additional attribute. At operation a context event is detected. The context event relates to one or more of the contextual attributes. For example the contextual attributes may specify a particular location and the GPS functionality of the client device may be used to determine the occurrence of a context event based on the current location of the user being at a location specified by the contextual attributes. In another example the GPS functionality of multiple client devices may be used to determine the occurrence of a context event based on the user being proximate to another user.

In response to detecting the occurrence of the context a notification is transmitted to the user at operation . Depending on the activity attributes the notification may be a reminder to the user to undertake the activity. In other embodiments the notification may be merely a suggestion that the user undertake the activity.

At operation a collection of intention objects belonging to a user is accessed. Each of the intention objects may comprise a data structure including a plurality of activity attributes. The plurality of activity attributes may include one or more temporal attributes and one or more contextual attributes. In some embodiments the one or more contextual attributes may identify a location for undertaking the activity.

At operation a relevancy rank for each of the intention objects in the collection of intention objects is calculated. The relevancy rank may indicate a suggested order in which the user undertake each respective activity. The relevancy rank may be determined based on the respective activity attributes of each of the intention objects.

At operation one or more above threshold intention objects with a relevancy rank above a predefined threshold are identified. The predefined threshold may be dynamically set by a user or in some embodiments the predefined threshold may be a default value.

At operation graphical representations of the one or more identified intention objects is presented to the user in a free form spatial interface. The presentation of each intention object may include one more executable user interface elements allowing the user to take one or more actions associated with respect to each intention object. Each of the intention objects presented to the user may be placed in an active state while the remaining intention objects of the collection of intention objects are placed in an inactive state. Consequently only the intention objects that are the most relevant to the user are presented to the user.

The method may optional include the operation in which the user is presented with the identified one or more intention objects in an ordered list. The order of the list may be determined by the relevancy rank of each of the one or more identified intention objects.

At operation an updated relevancy rank is determined for each of the intention objects of the collection of intention objects. The determining of the updated relevancy ranks may occur automatically at predefined intervals without any user intervention. In some embodiments the updated relevancy ranks may be determined in response to a change to the collection of intention objects e.g. intention objects added or removed . In some embodiments the updated relevancy ranks are determined in response to a change in location or other circumstances that may form the setting for undertaking one or more respective activities of the collection of intention objects.

At operation the updated relevancy rank for a particular intention object is determined to be below a predefined threshold. The predefined threshold may be the same predefined threshold discussed above with respect to operation . In response to the relevancy rank of the particular intention object being below the predefined threshold the status of the particular intention object is updated to be in an inactive state at operation . In response to the particular intention object being inactive the graphical representation of the particular intention object is removed from the free form spatial interface at operation and unscheduled from the calendar of the user at operation .

At operation the particular intention object is scheduled to be returned to the active state. The intention object may be scheduled to be returned to the active state in response to and in accordance with user input.

At operation a collection of intention objects belonging to a user is accessed. At operation calendar data from a calendar of the user is accessed. In some embodiments the calendar data may be retrieved from one or more third party calendar services e.g. third party application . In some embodiments the calendar data may correspond to one or more calendars of the user provided by calendar module .

At operation the calendar data is analyzed to determine an available time slot in the user s schedule. At operation a suggested intention object is selected from the collection of intention objects. The suggested intention object may be selected based on a combination of the length of the available time slot the plurality of activity attributes of the intention object and the relevancy rank of the intention object. For example at operation a fifteen minute available time slot in the schedule of the user may be identified and at operation a particular intention object may be selected as the suggested intention object based on the particular intention object having a temporal attribute indicating that the corresponding activity may take fifteen minutes to complete. In another example the intention object with the greatest relevancy ranking may be selected as the suggested intention object.

At operation a scheduling suggestion is generated and provided to the user. The scheduling suggestion may include a suggestion to schedule the activity corresponding to the suggested intention object. In some embodiments the scheduling suggestion may be automatically transmitted to the client device of the user as a notification without the need for an application to be executing. In other embodiments the scheduling suggestion is provided to the user upon opening the relevant application e.g. task management application . The scheduling suggestion may also provide the user with an ability to quickly schedule the activity of the intention object. Depending on the client device the activity may be scheduled through a single click keystroke or touch screen gesture. In response to receiving such user input the activity may be scheduled on the calendar of the user at operation .

In some embodiments a user may be able to quickly associate two or more intention objects by dragging an intention object over the top of another intention object or group of intention objects. Indicator signifies that intention object contains multiple dependent or associated intention objects. Selection of indicator may cause the display of the one or more dependent intention objects. Further details of this operation are discussed below in reference to . For purposes of this specification selection of a button or other user interface element refers to the receiving of a user input indicating the selection of the button or other user interface. Depending on the client device being used the user input may be a mouse click or gesture a keyboard stroke a voice command a single gesture on a touch enabled surface or display accelerometer input optical recognition input or the like.

As illustrated in the free form spatial interface may also include buttons and to provide additional functionality. For example selection of button causes a calendar of the user to be displayed. Further details of this feature are discussed below in reference to . The button allows users to create and add additional intention objects to the intention object collection. Selection of the button may cause an additional interface not shown to be displayed. This additional interface may allow a user to input an activity identifier and one or more attributes defining an intention of the user to undertake the activity. Selection of button may cause an alternative display or presentation of the collection e.g. an ordered list . Further details of this feature are discussed below in reference to .

Specific dates on the calendar may also include one or more indicators of calendar events scheduled on those dates and may provide some indication as to the time at which these events are scheduled. In some embodiments one or more calendar events may correspond to one or more intention objects. These scheduled intention objects may reside on both the calendar and the free form spatial interface .

As illustrated in the presentation of each of the intention objects may also include one or more executable action items respectively. Depending on the activity associated with the intention a number of different executable action items may be provided. In some embodiments the particular executable action items that are provided with a particular intention object are based on the one or more categorical attributes of the particular intention objects.

Executable action items provide the user with one or more actions to undertake or complete the activities associated with each intention object. For example selection of executable action item may cause the client device of the user to open a browser application and direct the user to a website that may enable the user to undertake the activity which in this case is making dinner reservations. Selection of executable action item may allow a user to compose an email to the intended recipient identified by the dependency attributes of intention object . This email functionality may be provided by the email client module or by a third party application . Selection of executable action item may allow a user to place a phone call to the intended recipient identified by the dependency attributes of intention object . Selection of executable action item may allow a user to create a meeting request.

As illustrated in the interface may also include search bar and button . The search bar may allow users to enter keyword based queries to search for a particular intention object or a group of intention objects that are part of the intention object collection of the user. As with button button may allow users to toggle between various views of the intention object collection e.g. free form spatial interface and ordered list .

The dependency data field relates to one or more dependency attributes of intention object and may identify one or more additional users or additional intention objects that are associated with or depend on intention object . The location data field relates to one or more contextual attributes of intention object and may identify a location associated with the activity identified by the activity identifier . The content data field relates to the content data of intention object and may include one or more content items or files associated with the activity.

The button when selected may provide the user an ability to invite one or more additional users to the scheduled activity. The button when selected may allow a user to simply share the intention object with one or more other users. This type of communication functionality of the buttons and may be provided by the email client modules . The button when selected allows a user to mark the intention object as complete. In some embodiments marking an intention object as complete causes the intention object to be removed from the intention object collection and may cause the execution of method . The button when selected causes intention object to be deleted and removed from the collection of intention objects.

Each of the executable actions may allow a user to take one or more actions with respect to the intention object regardless of whether the intention object resides in a calendar event an email or the intention object collection. For example selection of the button for action may cause the client device of the user to open a browser application and direct the user to a website related to the activity identified by activity identifier . The button may allow a user to compose an email related to the activity identified by activity identifier . This email functionality may be provided by the email client module or by a third party application . Similarly the button may allow a user to place a phone call related to the activity identified by activity identifier . The button may allow a user to schedule the activity on one or more calendars of the user provided by the calendar modules .

Although the detailed view of intention object is illustrated in to include only executable actions it should be appreciated that with other intention objects and in other embodiments one or more executable actions may be omitted and one or more additional executable actions may also be included.

The suggestion may identify the pertinent activity and may provide additional information related to one or more attributes of the associated intention object e.g. intention object . In some embodiments the suggestion may be provided to the user in accordance with the operations discussed in reference to method . In other embodiments the suggestion may be provided to the user in response to detecting an occurrence of a context event related to the contextual attributes of the intention object. For example the user may be provided the suggestion in response to the user moving to a particular location as indicated by geolocation data provided by the client device of the user. In other embodiments the suggestion may be provided to the user based on the user s browsing preferences.

As illustrated in the suggestion provides the user with an ability to immediately undertake the activity with a single input gesture. In other embodiments the suggestion may simply allow a user to schedule the activity on one or more calendars of the user.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a UI cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more data structures or instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium or tangible device that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although the embodiments of the present inventive subject matter have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 316 C.F.R. 1.162 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

