---

title: Portable lightweight apparatus and method for transferring heavy loads
abstract: A method and apparatus for the water-based transfer of heavy loads. The invention is a lightweight apparatus is reconfigurable, and it includes a gantry arrangement mounted on beams or a platform and the apparatus is used to transfer heavy load items. The apparatus reconfigurable and may be used in a water-based loading environments in performing a variety of loading functions in situations involving one or more watercrafts and/or a pier or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09381979&OS=09381979&RS=09381979
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09381979
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130226
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for the water based transfer of heavy loads and in particular a lightweight apparatus including a gantry arrangement that may be assembled and used to transfer heavy load items. The apparatus may be used in water based loading environments in situations involving one or more watercrafts and or a pier or the like.

The transfer of heavy loads from one vehicle to another is sometimes difficult to execute in remote land based or water based environments. In water based environments the transfer of heavy loads from one watercraft to another is desired because such a transfer negates the requirement for a shore based transfer. If the heavy load is some type of cargo or unmanned marine vehicle and is to be transferred to another water craft it would be efficient to transfer the cargo load in the water as opposed to bringing the water crafts to shore to perform the cargo transfer. Also there are scenarios in shallow water or riverine environments where onsite repair of an engine or transmission for example may be necessary. An engine may weigh about 1 000 2 000 lbs. and would require some type of specialized lifting equipment. Typically this would require the craft to be brought to shore and the loading or off loading may be performed by a crane. In the case of engine failure it may not be possible to bring the craft to shore if the craft is dependent on the damaged engine for propulsion. Thus it is desired to have an apparatus that provides the capability of repair or maintenance or the like in shallow water environments.

In land based environments load transfers may be difficult because of the remoteness and the topography of the surface involved. Typically the transfer of cargo from one vehicle to another would require a tremendous amount of man power. A flexible apparatus for providing this service is desired. Regardless of the environment it is also desired that the apparatus is lightweight and field erectable.

In one aspect the invention is a lightweight buoyant apparatus for transferring heavy loads. The lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a floating platform arrangement having a first end portion a second end portion and a removable middle portion between the first end portion and the second end portion. In this aspect each of the first end portion the second end portion and the middle portion comprise a plurality of inflated tubes. The lightweight buoyant apparatus also includes a gantry having a plurality of substantially U shaped load transferring frames. Each of the substantially U shaped load transferring frames includes a first vertical strut on the first end portion a second vertical strut supported on the second end portion and a substantially U shaped crossbeam extending from the first vertical strut to the second vertical strut. The substantially U shaped crossbeam has a horizontal rail support section extending in an direction over the removable middle portion of the floating platform arrangement. The gantry also includes a rail for slidingly supporting a load the rail extending in a Y direction perpendicular to said X direction. In this aspect the rail is supported at a midpoint of each of the plurality of horizontal rail support sections.

In another aspect the invention is a lightweight buoyant apparatus for transferring heavy loads. The lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a reconfigurable floating platform arrangement having a first end portion having an outer edge and an inner edge a second end portion having an outer edge and an inner edge and a third portion reconfigurable into several different arrangements. In this aspect the third portion is reconfigurable into a first arrangement in which the third portion is positioned between inner edges of the first end portion and the second end portion or a second arrangement in which the third portion is divided into two separate equal raft sections wherein one of the two raft sections is optionally attached to an outer edge of the first end portion and the other of the two raft sections is optionally attached to an outer edge of the second end portion leaving a wholly open section between the first end portion and the second end portion. According to the invention the third portion is reconfigurable into a third arrangement in which the third portion is divided into two separate equal raft sections wherein one of the two raft sections is optionally attached to an outer edge of one of the first end portion and the second end portion and the other of the two raft sections is positioned between the first end portion and the second end portion leaving a half cut out section between the first end portion and the second end portion. In this aspect the lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a plurality of substantially U shaped load transferring frames each of the substantially U shaped load transferring frames having a first vertical section supported on the first end portion a second vertical section supported on the second end portion and a substantially U shaped crossbeam extending from the first vertical section to the second vertical section the substantially U shaped crossbeam having a horizontal rail section extending in an X direction. The lightweight buoyant apparatus also includes a rail for slidingly supporting a load the rail extending in a Y direction perpendicular to said X direction the rail supported at a midpoint of each of the plurality of horizontal rail support sections.

In another aspect the invention is a water based method of transferring heavy load items between a first watercraft and one of a second watercraft a pier or a lightweight buoyant apparatus. In this aspect the method includes providing in a shallow water or low sea state environment a first watercraft for loading and or offloading one or more heavy load items. The method also includes providing in the shallow or low sea state environment a lightweight buoyant apparatus for transferring one or more heavy load items to and or from said first watercraft wherein the lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a reconfigurable floating platform arrangement. The reconfigurable floating platform has a first end portion having an outer edge and an inner edge and a second end portion having an outer edge and an inner edge. The reconfigurable floating platform also has a third portion reconfigurable into several different arrangements including a first arrangement in which the third portion is positioned between inner edges of the first end portion and the second end portion a second arrangement in which the third portion is divided into two separate equal raft sections wherein one of the two raft sections is attached to an outer edge of the first end portion and the other of the two raft sections is attached to an outer edge of the second end portion leaving a wholly open section between the first end portion and the second end portion or a third arrangement in which the third portion is divided into two separate equal raft sections wherein one of the two raft sections is attached to an outer edge of one of the first end portion and the second end portion and the other of the two raft sections is positioned between the first end portion and the second end portion leaving a half cut out section between the first end portion and the second end portion. In this aspect the lightweight buoyant apparatus also includes a plurality of substantially U shaped load transferring frames each of the substantially U shaped load transferring frames having a first vertical section supported on the first end portion a second vertical section supported on the second end portion and a substantially U shaped crossbeam extending from the first vertical section to the second vertical section. The substantially U shaped crossbeam having a horizontal rail section extending in an X direction. The lightweight buoyant apparatus also includes a rail for slidingly supporting a load the rail extending in a Y direction perpendicular to the X direction the rail supported at a midpoint of each of the plurality of horizontal rail sections. The lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a bracket slidingly attached to the rail the bracket having a holding device for holding the load. In this aspect the method further includes using the lightweight buoyant apparatus to transfer one or more heavy load items to and or from the first watercraft.

In another aspect the invention is a lightweight apparatus for transferring heavy loads. The lightweight apparatus includes a first base beam a second base beam and a plurality of beam supports for supporting the first and second base beams on a surface. The lightweight apparatus also includes a gantry mounted on the first and second base beams the gantry having a plurality of substantially U shaped load transferring frames. Each of the substantially U shaped load transferring frames has a first vertical strut on the first end portion a second vertical strut supported on the second end portion and a substantially U shaped crossbeam extending from the first vertical strut to the second vertical strut the substantially U shaped crossbeam having a horizontal support rail section. The lightweight apparatus further includes a rail for slidingly supporting the heavy load the rail extending in a direction perpendicular horizontal rail supports of the substantially U shaped load transferring frames the rail supported at a midpoint of each of the plurality of horizontal rail support sections.

As shown in the lightweight buoyant apparatus includes a floating platform arrangement . The floating platform arrangement may be a pontoon made from a plurality of elongated inflated tubes which are elongated in a Y direction as shown. As outlined below and illustrated in the tubes may be cylindrical and may be made from any suitable air impervious material which may typically be a rubber material similar to that used in rigid hull inflatable boats. The tubes have air chambers which when fully inflated provide relatively rigid walls. As outlined below the elongated inflated tubes may be attached to each other using connectors such as straps D rings or the like. also shows the buoyant apparatus having a gantry arrangement . The gantry includes a plurality of substantially U shaped load transferring frames supported on the platform arrangement . shows the gantry having three substantially U shaped load transferring frames but depending on the application the gantry may have more or less frames .

According to this embodiment the first end portion includes two elongated inflated tubes . As shown the tubes have a length L and a diameter D. Similarly according to this embodiment the second end portion also includes two elongated inflated tubes extending in the Y direction having a length L. As outlined below the tubes within each of the sets and are connected using the plurality of connectors positioned along the length of the tubes and connectors positioned at the outer face of the tubes . The connectors and may be D rings and straps thereby making the first and second end portions easy to assemble.

The removable middle portion may also comprise a plurality of elongated inflated tubes extending in said Y direction substantially perpendicular to said X direction. According to this embodiment the removable middle portion is divided into two separate tube raft sections and in a side by side symmetrical arrangement. As outlined below the sections and are designed to be separated from the remainder of the floating platform arrangement . Both sections or one of the sections may be separated thereby leaving the floating platform arrangement with a wholly open middle section or a partial cutout section. As outlined below the two separate tube raft sections and are not reinforced in the same manner as first and second end portions and and may be used as rafts or docks or the like to facilitate maintenance on watercrafts.

The tube raft sections and face may contact each other at a central zone between the two tube sections. Each of the rube raft sections and comprises six elongated inflated tubes . The tubes in each section are connected to each other by connectors such as D rings and straps. As shown the tubes may have a diameter D and a length of l. The length l is about L 2 so that when the sections and are in the side by side symmetrical arrangement the total length combined is about L. As with the first and second end portions and the tubes are connected using the plurality of connectors positioned along the length of the tubes and connectors positioned at the outer face of the tubes. The connectors and may optionally be used to connect the first end portion to the removable middle portion and the second end portion to the removable middle portion . The connectors and may be D rings and straps. The arrangement of connectors and facilitates the easy assembly of the platform .

According to an embodiment of the invention the diameter of D of the cylindrical tubes and is about 2 ft. According to this embodiment the length L is about 30 ft. According to this embodiment the length l is about 15 ft. According to this embodiment the floating platform arrangement has an overall length of about 30 ft. and an overall width of about 20 ft. It should be noted that this is only one embodiment and other dimensions and arrangements for the floating platform arrangement are possible depending on the application. The length L may be 20 ft. or 40 ft. if desired and the overall width W may be 10 ft. or 30 ft. if desired. The diameter D of the tubes may also be varied if desired. Additionally regarding the structure the first and second end portions and may have three or four cylindrical tubes each as opposed to the two shown in . Similarly the removable middle portions and may each have eight or ten tubes as opposed to the six shown in .

As stated above the removable middle portion is divided into two separate tube raft sections and . The tube raft sections and may operate individually as rafts and are designed to be separated from the remainder of the floating platform arrangement . The tube raft sections and may also be re attached or tethered to other parts of the floating platform arrangement. and F are exemplary illustrations the floating platform arrangement showing possible arrangements of the tube raft sections and . As shown shows the tube raft sections and positioned between the first and the second end portions and at inner edge portions of the respective end portions and . As outlined below operators of the lightweight buoyant apparatus may perform loading maintenance services from the tube raft sections and when the tube raft sections and are in the positions illustrated in .

The second end portion is also covered with modular grating sections . As shown there are also three modular grating sections but as stated above the second end portion may be covered by two or one modular grating sections. As stated above the removable middle portion may optionally be covered with six modular grating sections. Alternatively a different number of gratings such as four or eight gratings may be used in the middle portion . The modular grating sections may be also be attached to the tubes with D rings and straps or any other desired connector. Again this facilitates easy assembly.

Regarding the various embodiments of the floating platform as outlined with respect to the illustration of it should be noted that the floating platform is essentially modular. The various elements such as the tubes and the modular grating sections e.g. may be assembled in the field by a user. The use of connecting devices such as straps and D rings as outlined above facilitate the easy assembly of the interconnected elements.

As outlined above lightweight buoyant apparatus is reconfigurable and may be used to transfer heavy load items in a wide variety of situations such as cargo loading or unloading moving unmanned marine vehicles or in maintenance or repair situations. The lightweight buoyant apparatus may be employed in water as shallow as 2 ft. deep but may also be used in riverine environments sheltered harbors and open water conditions with low sea states. The apparatus may be used in ship to ship or ship to dock situations. The lightweight buoyant apparatus may weigh about 5 000 10 000 lbs. Additionally as outlined above the apparatus is modular and this feature in combination with its light weight makes it easy to transport and assemble in the field. are exemplary schematic illustrations of arrangements involving one or more watercrafts for transferring heavy load units utilizing a lightweight buoyant apparatus according to embodiments of the invention.

In the embodiment of the middle portion of the floating platform is removed i.e. both portions and . The removal of the middle portion leaves a wholly open section between the first end portion and the second end portion . This wholly open section is occupied by the watercrafts and which allows the watercrafts to be close together in a back to back arrangement as shown. This back to back arrangement of the first and second watercrafts and facilitates an efficient transfer of the heavy load units . When removed from between the first and second end portions and the removed middle portions and not shows in may be attached to outer edges of the first and second portions and as shown in . The portions and may be attached as shown in for mere tethering purposes. However the portions and may also be used as makeshift docks during the performance of loading and or maintenance services.

As shown the watercraft is backed into the half cut out section of the floating platform the cut out section made possible by removal of one of the one of the two substantially identical tube raft sections and . shows tube section removed and the watercraft is backed into the vacant space left by the removal of tube raft section . According to this embodiment one or more heavy load units is transferred from the watercraft to the tube raft section via the gantry. As outlined above the one or more heavy load units are mounted onto the holding mechanism on the bracket which slides along the rail to transfer the load. According to this embodiment the one or more heavy load units may be a part of the watercraft such as an engine transmission propeller or the like which is serviced and or repaired on the makeshift deck . After servicing is completed the one or more heavy load units may be transferred back to the watercraft again using the gantry .

It should be noted that show only three possible exemplary schematic illustrations of arrangements involving one or more watercrafts for transferring heavy load units utilizing a lightweight buoyant apparatus . Because of the many features of the apparatus including the size and the ability to be reconfigured the apparatus may be employed in many other loading and or maintenance applications that are not illustrated in . For example the lightweight buoyant apparatus may be used to load and offload cargo from larger ships with the apparatus configured as shown in with the middle portion located between the first and second end portions and .

Step is the providing in said shallow water or low sea state environment a lightweight buoyant apparatus for transferring one or more heavy load items to and or from said first watercraft. illustrate many of the features of the lightweight buoyant apparatus including a floating platform arrangement having a first end portion a second end portion and a removable middle portion . also illustrate the gantry for lifting and transferring heavy load items.

Step is using the lightweight buoyant apparatus to transfer one or more heavy load items to and or from the first watercraft . As outlined above the lightweight buoyant apparatus is positioned in close proximity to the first watercraft allowing heavy load items to be positioned on the gantry for transfer between the apparatus and the first watercraft . are exemplary schematic illustrations of arrangements involving the first watercraft the lightweight buoyant apparatus and optionally a second watercraft or a pier in which heavy load items may be transferred. For example illustrates an arrangement for transferring one or more heavy load units from the first watercraft to the second watercraft utilizing the lightweight buoyant apparatus . illustrates an arrangement for transferring one or more heavy load units between the first watercraft and a pier .

As shown in the lightweight apparatus for transferring heavy loads includes base beams . The apparatus also includes a gantry mounted to the base beams . As shown the beams are supported on wheels which facilitate the transportation of the lightweight apparatus on land surfaces such as asphalt dirt sand mud rock and other terrains. The wheels may be soft and wide to accommodate for the wide range surfaces. The wheels and the base beams are designed to be easily assembled and disassembled. The wheels may be removed to save weight for specific missions.

As shown in the lightweight apparatus are oriented so that it has an open area within. In operation a truck or the like could back up into this open area to facilitate the loading or offloading of cargo. When a truck or the like is in position heavy load items may be transferred back and forth by the sliding action of the bracket on the rail .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

