---

title: High density self-contained biological analysis
abstract: Devices, containers, and methods are provided for performing biological analysis in a closed environment. Illustrative biological analyses include high density nucleic acid amplification and detection and immuno-PCR.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09102911&OS=09102911&RS=09102911
owner: BioFire Diagnostics, LLC
number: 09102911
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130128
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. U01 AI061611 and R43 AI063695 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In the United States Canada and Western Europe infectious disease accounts for approximately 7 of human mortality while in developing regions infectious disease accounts for over 40 of human mortality. Infectious diseases lead to a variety of clinical manifestations. Among common overt manifestations are fever pneumonia meningitis diarrhea and diarrhea containing blood. While the physical manifestations suggest some pathogens and eliminate others as the etiological agent a variety of potential causative agents remain and clear diagnosis often requires a variety of assays be performed. Traditional microbiology techniques for diagnosing pathogens can take days or weeks often delaying a proper course of treatment.

In recent years the polymerase chain reaction PCR has become a method of choice for rapid diagnosis of infectious agents. PCR can be a rapid sensitive and specific tool to diagnose infectious disease. A challenge to using PCR as a primary means of diagnosis is the variety of possible causative organisms and the low levels of organism present in some pathological specimens. It is often impractical to run large panels of PCR assays one for each possible causative organism most of which are expected to be negative. The problem is exacerbated when pathogen nucleic acid is at low concentration and requires a large volume of sample to gather adequate reaction templates. In some cases there is inadequate sample to assay for all possible etiological agents. A solution is to run multiplex PCR wherein the sample is concurrently assayed for multiple targets in a single reaction. While multiplex PCR has proved to be valuable in some systems shortcomings exist concerning robustness of high level multiplex reactions and difficulties for clear analysis of multiple products. To solve these problems the assay may be subsequently divided into multiple secondary PCRs. Nesting secondary reactions within the primary product increases robustness. However this further handling can be expensive and may lead to contamination or other problems.

Similarly immuno PCR iPCR has the potential for sensitive detection of a wide variety of antigens. However because traditional ELISA techniques have been applied to iPCR iPCR often suffers from contamination issues that are problematic using a PCR based detection method.

Accordingly a rapid sensitive assay that simultaneously assays for multiple biological substances including organisms is provided. The self contained system illustratively employs an inexpensive disposable plastic pouch in a self contained format allowing for nested PCR and other means to identify bio molecules illustratively while minimizing contamination and providing for robust amplification.

Thus in one aspect of the present invention a container for performing two stage amplification on a sample in a closed system is provided the container comprising a first stage reaction zone comprising a first stage reaction blister configured for first stage amplification of the sample an additional reservoir fluidly connected to the first stage reaction blister the additional reservoir configured for providing additional fluids to the sample and a second stage reaction zone fluidly connected to the first stage reaction zone the second stage reaction zone comprising a plurality of second stage reaction chambers each second stage reaction chamber comprising a pair of primers configured for further amplification of the sample. In one illustrative example the first stage reaction zone is a first stage PCR amplification zone. In another illustrative example the first stage reaction zone is an antigen binding zone for immuno PCR in which antigens present in the sample are recognized and associated with a particular nucleic acid segment and the second stage reaction zone is a nucleic acid amplification zone. In yet another illustrative example the container further comprises a cell lysis zone comprising particles for lysing cells or spores located in the sample and a nucleic acid preparation zone comprising components for purifying nucleic acids. Illustratively the blisters comprise a flexible material such that pressure provided on an individual blister collapses the blister forcing the contents from the blister.

In another aspect of the present invention a container is provided comprising a flexible portion having a plurality of blisters fluidly connected via a plurality of channels and a plurality of reservoirs each reservoir containing a reaction component and each reservoir fluidly connected to at least one of the plurality of blisters and a sealable port configured for receiving the sample the sealable port fluidly connected to one of the plurality of blisters. In one illustrative embodiment the reaction components are in dried form and the container further comprises a second sealable port fluidly connected to each of the plurality of reservoirs the port configured for receiving water to rehydrate the reaction components.

In a further aspect of the present invention a method for lysing cells in a sample is provided the method comprising providing a flexible container comprising a cell lysis blister introducing cells into the cell lysis blister and applying force to the blister to move the particles and sample to generate high velocity impacts resulting in a lysate.

In yet another aspect of the present invention a device for analyzing a sample for the presence of nucleic acids is provided the device configured to receive a container of the present invention therein a plurality of actuators positioned corresponding to various blisters of the container each actuator configured to apply pressure to the corresponding blister of the container a first heater cooler device configured for thermal cycling the contents of one of the blisters and a second heater cooler device for thermal cycling the second stage chamber.

In still another aspect of the present invention methods are provided. In one illustrative method nucleic acids are amplified. In another illustrative method antigens are detected using immuno PCR.

In an addition aspect of the present invention a high density reaction zone is provided comprising a channel a plurality of high density reaction wells fluidly connected to the channel each high density reaction well comprising one or more reagents and a barrier layer that minimizes cross contamination between high density reaction wells upon introduction of the sample to the high density reaction zone. The barrier layer may be a physical layer illustratively a pierced layer that minimizes flow through the piercings absent a force to move the sample through the piercings. Alternatively the barrier may be a chemical barrier that keeps the reagents in the wells until the wells can be sealed.

Additional features of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

The self contained nucleic acid analysis pouches described herein may be used to assay a sample for the presence of various biological substances illustratively antigens and nucleic acid sequences illustratively in a single closed system. In one embodiment the pouch is used to assay for multiple pathogens. Illustratively various steps may be performed in the optionally disposable pouch including nucleic acid preparation primary large volume multiplex PCR dilution of primary amplification product and secondary PCR culminating with real time detection and or post amplification analysis such as melting curve analysis. It is understood however that pathogen detection is one exemplary use and the pouches may be used for other nucleic acid analysis or detection of other substances including but not limited to peptides toxins and small molecules. Further it is understood that while the various steps may be performed in pouches of the present invention one or more of the steps may be omitted for certain uses and the pouch configuration may be altered accordingly.

While PCR is the amplification method used in the examples herein it is understood that any amplification method that uses a primer may be suitable. Such suitable procedures include polymerase chain reaction PCR strand displacement amplification SDA nucleic acid sequence based amplification NASBA cascade rolling circle amplification CRCA loop mediated isothermal amplification of DNA LAMP isothermal and chimeric primer initiated amplification of nucleic acids ICAN target based helicase dependant amplification HDA transcription mediated amplification TMA and the like. Therefore when the term PCR is used it should be understood to include other alternative amplification methods. It is understood that protocols may need to be adjusted accordingly.

Sample processing occurs in various blisters located within pouch . Various channels are provided to move the sample within and between processing zones while other channels are provided to deliver fluids and reagents to the sample or to remove such fluids and reagents from the sample. Liquid within pouch illustratively is moved between blisters by pressure illustratively pneumatic pressure as described below although other methods of moving material within the pouch are contemplated.

While other containers may be used illustratively pouch is formed of two layers of a flexible plastic film or other flexible material such as polyester polyethylene terephthalate PET polycarbonate polypropylene polymethylmethacrylate and mixtures thereof that can be made by any process known in the art including extrusion plasma deposition and lamination. Metal foils or plastics with aluminum lamination also may be used. Other barrier materials are known in the art that can be sealed together to form the blisters and channels. If plastic film is used the layers may be bonded together illustratively by heat sealing. Illustratively the material has low nucleic acid binding capacity.

For embodiments employing fluorescent monitoring plastic films that are adequately low in absorbance and auto fluorescence at the operative wavelengths are preferred. Such material could be identified by trying different plastics different plasticizers and composite ratios as well as different thicknesses of the film. For plastics with aluminum or other foil lamination the portion of the pouch that is to be read by a fluorescence detection device can be left without the foil. For example if fluorescence is monitored in the blisters of the second stage amplification zone of pouch then one or both layers at blisters would be left without the foil. In the example of PCR film laminates composed of polyester Mylar Dupont Wilmington Del. of about 0.0048 inch 0.1219 mm thick and polypropylene films of 0.001 0.003 inch 0.025 0.076 mm thick perform well. Illustratively pouch is made of a clear material capable of transmitting approximately 80 90 of incident light.

In the illustrative embodiment the materials are moved between blisters by the application of pressure illustratively pneumatic pressure upon the blisters and channels. Accordingly in embodiments employing pneumatic pressure the pouch material illustratively is flexible enough to allow the pneumatic pressure to have the desired effect. The term flexible is herein used to describe a physical characteristic of the material of pouch. The term flexible is herein defined as readily deformable by the levels of pneumatic pressure used herein without cracking breaking crazing or the like. For example thin plastic sheets such as Saran wrap and Ziploc bags as well as thin metal foil such as aluminum foil are flexible. However only certain regions of the blisters and channels need be flexible even in embodiments employing pneumatic pressure. Further only one side of the blisters and channels need to be flexible as long as the blisters and channels are readily deformable. Other regions of the pouch may be made of a rigid material or may be reinforced with a rigid material.

Illustratively a plastic film is used for pouch . A sheet of metal illustratively aluminum or other suitable material may be milled or otherwise cut to create a die having a pattern of raised surfaces. When fitted into a pneumatic press illustratively A 5302 PDS Janesville Tool Inc. Milton Wis. illustratively regulated at an operating temperature of 195 C. the pneumatic press works like a printing press melting the sealing surfaces of plastic film only where the die contacts the film. Various components such as PCR primers illustratively spotted onto the film and dried antigen binding substrates magnetic beads and zirconium silicate beads may be sealed inside various blisters as the pouch is formed. Reagents for sample processing can be spotted onto the film prior to sealing either collectively or separately. In one embodiment nucleotide tri phosphates NTPs are spotted onto the film separately from polymerase and primers essentially eliminating activity of the polymerase until the reaction is hydrated by an aqueous sample. If the aqueous sample has been heated prior to hydration this creates the conditions for a true hot start PCR and reduces or eliminates the need for expensive chemical hot start components. This separate spotting is discussed further below with respect to but it is understood that such spotting may be used with any of the embodiments discussed herein.

When pneumatic pressure is used to move materials within pouch in one embodiment a bladder may be employed. The bladder assembly a portion of which is shown in may be manufactured in a process similar to that of making the pouch but individual blisters in the bladder assembly include pneumatic fittings illustratively fitting allowing individual bladders within the bladder assembly to be pressurized by a compressed gas source. Because the bladder assembly is subjected to compressed gas and may be used multiple times the bladder assembly may be made from tougher or thicker material than the pouch. Alternatively bladders may be formed from a series of plates fastened together with gaskets seals valves and pistons. Other arrangements are within the scope of this invention.

When pouch is placed within the instrument the pneumatic bladder assembly is pressed against one face of the pouch so that if a particular bladder is inflated the pressure will force the liquid out of the corresponding blister in the pouch . In addition to pneumatic bladders corresponding to many of the blisters of pouch the bladder assembly may have additional pneumatic actuators such as bladders or pneumatically driven pistons corresponding to various channels of pouch . When activated these additional pneumatic actuators form pinch valves to pinch off and close the corresponding channels. To confine liquid within a particular blister of pouch the pinch valve pneumatic actuators are inflated over the channels leading to and from the blister such that the actuators function as pinch valves to pinch the channels shut. Illustratively to mix two volumes of liquid in different blisters the pinch valve pneumatic actuator sealing the connecting channel is depressurized and the pneumatic bladders over the blisters are alternately pressurized forcing the liquid back and forth through the channel connecting the blisters to mix the liquid therein. The pinch valve pneumatic actuators may be of various shapes and sizes and may be configured to pinch off more than one channel at a time. Such an illustrative pinch valve is illustrated in as pinch valve which may be used to close all injection ports. While pneumatic actuators are discussed herein it is understood that other ways of providing pressure to the pouch are contemplated including various electromechanical actuators such as linear stepper motors motor driven cams rigid paddles driven by pneumatic hydraulic or electromagnetic forces rollers rocker arms and in some cases cocked springs. In addition there are a variety of methods of reversibly or irreversibly closing channels in addition to applying pressure normal to the axis of the channel. These include kinking the bag across the channel heat sealing rolling an actuator and a variety of physical valves sealed into the channel such as butterfly valves and ball valves. Additionally small Peltier devices or other temperature regulators may be placed adjacent the channels and set at a temperature sufficient to freeze the fluid effectively forming a seal. Also while the design of is adapted for an automated instrument featuring actuator elements positioned over each of the blisters and channels it is also contemplated that the actuators could remain stationary and the pouch could be transitioned in one or two dimensions such that a small number of actuators could be used for several of the processing stations including sample disruption nucleic acid capture first and second stage PCR and other applications of the pouch such as immuno assay and immuno PCR. Rollers acting on channels and blisters could prove particularly useful in a configuration in which the pouch is translated between stations. Thus while pneumatic actuators are used in the presently disclosed embodiments when the term pneumatic actuator is used herein it is understood that other actuators and other ways of providing pressure may be used depending on the configuration of the pouch and the instrument.

With reference to an illustrative sample pouch configured for nucleic acid extraction and multiplex PCR is provided. The sample enters pouch via sample injection port in fitment . Injector port may be a frangible seal a one way valve or other entry port. Vacuum from inside pouch may be used to draw the sample into pouch a syringe or other pressure may be used to force the sample into pouch or other means of introducing the sample into pouch via injector port may be used. The sample travels via channel to the three lobed blister of the cell lysis zone wherein cells in the sample are lysed. Once the sample enters three lobed blister pinch valve is closed. Along with pinch valve which may have been already closed the closure of pinch valve seals the sample in three lobed blister . It is understood that cell lysis may not be necessary with every sample. For such samples the cell lysis zone may be omitted or the sample may be moved directly to the next zone. However with many samples cell lysis is needed. In one embodiment bead milling is used to lyse the cells.

Bead milling by shaking or vortexing the sample in the presence of lysing particles such as zirconium silicate ZS beads is an effective method to form a lysate. It is understood that as used herein terms such as lyse lysing and lysate are not limited to rupturing cells but that such terms include disruption of non cellular particles such as viruses. displays one embodiment of a cell lysis zone where convergent flow creates high velocity bead impacts to create lysate. Illustratively the two lower lobes of three lobed blister are connected via channel and the upper lobe is connected to the lower lobes at the opposing side of channel . shows a counterpart portion of the bladder assembly that would be in contact with the cell lysis zone of the pouch . When pouch is placed in an instrument adjacent each lobe on pouch is a corresponding pneumatic bladder in the bladder assembly . It is understood that the term adjacent when referring to the relationship between a blister or channel in a pouch and its corresponding pneumatic actuator refers to the relationship between the blister or channel and the corresponding pneumatic actuator when the pouch is placed into the instrument. In one embodiment the pneumatic fittings of the two lower pneumatic bladders adjacent lower lobes are plumbed together. The pneumatic fittings and the pneumatic fitting of upper pneumatic bladder adjacent upper lobe are plumbed to the opposing side of an electrically actuated valve configured to drive a double acting pneumatic cylinder. Thus configured pressure is alternated between the upper pneumatic bladder and the two lower pneumatic bladders . When the valve is switched back and forth liquid in pouch is driven between the lower lobes and the upper lobe through a narrow nexus in channel . As the two lower lobes are pressurized at the same time the flow converges and shoots into the upper lobe . Depending on the geometry of the lobes the collision velocity of beads at the nexus may be at least about 12 msec providing high impact collisions resulting in lysis. The illustrative three lobed system allows for good cell disruption and structural robustness while minimizing size and pneumatic gas consumption. While ZS beads are used as the lysing particles it is understood that this choice is illustrative only and that other materials and particles of other shapes may be used. It is also understood that other configurations for cell lysis zone are within the scope of this invention.

While a three lobed blister is used for cell lysis it is understood that other multi lobed configurations are within the scope of this invention. For instance a four lobed blister illustratively in a cloverleaf pattern could be used wherein the opposite blisters are pressurized at the same time forcing the lysing particles toward each other and then angling off to the other two lobes which then may be pressurized together. Such a four lobed blister would have the advantage of having high velocity impacts in both directions. Further it is contemplated that single lobed blisters may be used wherein the lysing particles are moved rapidly from one portion of the single lobed blister to the other. For example pneumatic actuators may be used to close off areas of the single lobed blister temporarily forming a multi lobed blister in the remaining areas. Other actuation methods may also be used such as motor pneumatic hydraulic or electromagnetically driven paddles acting on the lobes of the device. Rollers or rotary paddles can be used to drive fluid together at the nexus of illustratively if a recirculation means is provided between the upper and lower lobes and the actuator provides peristaltic pumping action. Other configurations are within the scope of this invention.

It may also be possible to move the sample and lysing particles quickly enough to effect lysis within a single lobed lysis blister without temporarily forming a multi lobed blister. In one such alternative embodiment as shown in vortexing may be achieved by impacting the pouch with rotating blades or paddles attached to an electric motor . The blades may impact the pouch at the lysis blister or may impact the pouch near the lysis blister illustratively at an edge adjacent the lysis blister. In such an embodiment the lysis blister may comprise one or more blisters. shows an embodiment comprising one such lysis blister . shows a bead beating motor comprising blades that may be mounted on a first side of second support member of instrument shown in . It is understood however that motor may be mounted on first support member or on other structure of instrument .

Other prior art instruments teach PCR within a sealed flexible container. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 645 758 and 6 780 617 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 478 453 herein incorporated by reference. However including the cell lysis within the sealed PCR vessel can improve ease of use and safety particularly if the sample to be tested may contain a biohazard. In the embodiments illustrated herein the waste from cell lysis as well as that from all other steps remains within the sealed pouch. However it is understood that the pouch contents could be removed for further testing.

Once the cells are lysed pinch valve is opened and the lysate is moved through channel to the nucleic acid preparation zone as best seen in after which pinch valve is closed sealing the sample in nucleic acid preparation zone . In the embodiment illustrated in purification of nucleic acids takes the bead milled material and uses affinity binding to silica based magnetic beads washing the beads with ethanol and eluting the nucleic acids with water or other fluid to purify the nucleic acid from the cell lysate. The individual components needed for nucleic acid extraction illustratively reside in blisters which are connected by channels to allow reagent mixing. The lysate enters blister from channel . Blister may be provided with magnetic beads and a suitable binding buffer illustratively a high salt buffer such as that of 1 2 3 Sample Preparation Kit Idaho Technology Salt Lake City Utah or either or both of these components may be provided subsequently through one or more channels connected to blister . The nucleic acids are captured on beads pinch valve is then opened and the lysate and beads may be mixed by gentle pressure alternately on blisters and and then moved to blister via pneumatic pressure illustratively provided by a corresponding pneumatic bladder on bladder assembly . The magnetic beads are captured in blister by a retractable magnet which is located in the instrument adjacent blister and waste may be moved to a waste reservoir or may be returned to blister by applying pressure to blister . Pinch valve is then closed. The magnetic beads are washed with ethanol isopropanol or other organic or inorganic wash solution provided from blister upon release of pinch valve . Optionally magnet may be retracted allowing the beads to be washed by providing alternate pressure on blisters and . The beads are once again captured in blister by magnet and the non nucleic acid portion of the lysate is washed from the beads and may be moved back to blister and secured by pinch valve or may be washed away via another channel to a waste reservoir. Once the magnetic beads are washed pinch valve is opened releasing water illustratively buffered water or another nucleic acid eluant from blister . Once again the magnet may be retracted to allow maximum mixing of water and beads illustratively by providing alternate pressure on blisters and . The magnet is once again deployed to collect beads . Pinch valve is released and the eluted nucleic acid is moved via channel to first stage amplification zone . Pinch valve is then closed thus securing the sample in first stage amplification zone .

It is understood that the configuration for the nucleic acid preparation zone as shown in and described above is illustrative only and that various other configurations are possible within the scope of the present disclosure.

The ethanol water and other fluids used herein may be provided to the blisters in various ways. The fluids may be stored in the blisters the necks of which may be pinched off by various pinch valves or frangible portions that may be opened at the proper time in the sample preparation sequence. Alternatively fluid may be stored in reservoirs in the pouch as shown pouch in or in the fitment as discussed with respect to pouch of and moved via channels as necessary. In still another embodiment the fluids may be introduced from an external source as shown in especially with respect to ethanol injection ports and plungers . Illustratively plungers may inserted into fitment illustratively of a more rigid material and may provide a measured volume of fluid upon activation of the plunger as in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 512 255 herein incorporated by reference. The measured volume may be the same or different for each of the plungers. Finally in yet another embodiment the pouch may be provided with a measured volume of the fluid that is stored in one or more blisters wherein the fluid is contained within the blister illustratively provided in a small sealed pouch within the blister effectively forming a blister within the blister. At the appropriate time the sealed pouch may then be ruptured illustratively by pneumatic pressure thereby releasing the fluid into the blister of the pouch. The instrument may also be configured the provide some or all of the reagents directly through liquid contacts between the instrument and the fitment or pouch material provided that the passage of fluid is tightly regulated by a one way valve to prevent the instrument from becoming contaminated during a run. Further it will often be desirable for the pouch or its fitment to be sealed after operation to prohibit contaminating DNA to escape from the pouch. Various means are known to provide reagents on demand such as syringe pumps and to make temporary fluid contact with the fitment or pouch such as barbed fittings or o ring seals. It is understood that any of these methods of introducing fluids to the appropriate blister may be used with any of the embodiments of the pouch as discussed herein as may be dictated by the needs of a particular application.

As discussed above nested PCR involves target amplification performed in two stages. In the first stage targets are amplified illustratively from genomic or reverse transcribed template. The first stage amplification may be terminated prior to plateau phase if desired. In the secondary reaction the first stage amplicons may be diluted and a secondary amplification uses the same primers or illustratively uses nested primers hybridizing internally to the primers of the first stage product. Advantages of nested PCR include a the initial reaction product forms a homogeneous and specific template assuring high fidelity in the secondary reaction wherein even a relatively low efficiency first stage reaction creates adequate template to support robust second stage reaction b nonspecific products from the first stage reaction do not significantly interfere with the second stage reaction as different nested primers are used and the original amplification template illustratively genomic DNA or reverse transcription product may be diluted to a degree that eliminates its significance in the secondary amplification and c nested PCR enables higher order reaction multiplexing. First stage reactions can include primers for several unique amplification products. These products are then identified in the second stage reactions. However it is understood that first stage multiplex and second stage singleplex is illustrative only and that other configurations are possible. For example the first stage may amplify a variety of different related amplicons using a single pair of primers and second stage may be used to target differences between the amplicons illustratively using melting curve analysis.

Turning back to the nucleic acid sample enters the first stage amplification zone via channel and is delivered to blister . A PCR mixture including a polymerase illustratively a Taq polymerase dNTPs and primers illustratively a plurality of pairs of primers for multiplex amplification may be provided in blister or may be introduced into blister via various means as discussed above. Alternatively dried reagents may be spotted onto the location of blister upon assembly of pouch and water or buffer may be introduced to blister illustratively via plunger as shown in . As best seen in the sample is now secured in blister by pinch valves and and is thermocycled between two or more temperatures illustratively by heat blocks or Peltier devices that are located in the instrument and configured to contact blister . However it is understood that other means of heating and cooling the sample contained within blister as are known in the art are within the scope of this invention. Non limiting examples of alternative heating cooling devices for thermal cycling include having a air cycled blister within the bladder in which the air in the pneumatic blister adjacent blister is cycled between two or more temperatures or moving the sample to temperature zones within the blister illustratively using a plurality of pneumatic presses as in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 478 453 herein incorporated by reference or by translating pouch on an axis or providing pouch with a rotary layout and spinning pouch to move the contents between heat zones of fixed temperature.

Nucleic acids from pathogens are often co isolated with considerable quantities of host nucleic acids. These host derived nucleic acids often interact with primers resulting in amplification of undesired products that then scavenge primers dNTPs and polymerase activity potentially starving a desired product of resources. Nucleic acids from pathogenic organisms are generally of low abundance and undesired product is a potential problem. The number of cycles in the first stage reaction of zone may be optimized to maximize specific products and minimize non specific products. It is expected that the optimum number of cycles will be between about 10 to about 30 cycles illustratively between about 15 to about 20 cycles but it is understood that the number of cycles may vary depending on the particular target host and primer sequence.

Following the first stage multiplex amplification the first stage amplification product is diluted illustratively in incomplete PCR master mix before fluidic transfer to secondary reaction sites.

Success of the secondary PCR reactions is dependent upon template generated by the multiplex first stage reaction. Typically PCR is performed using DNA of high purity. Methods such as phenol extraction or commercial DNA extraction kits provide DNA of high purity. Samples processed through the pouch may require accommodations be made to compensate for a less pure preparation. PCR may be inhibited by components of biological samples which is a potential obstacle. Illustratively hot start PCR higher concentration of taq polymerase enzyme adjustments in MgClconcentration adjustments in primer concentration and addition of adjuvants such as DMSO TMSO or glycerol optionally may be used to compensate for lower nucleic acid purity. While purity issues are likely to be more of a concern with first stage amplification it is understood that similar adjustments may be provided in the second stage amplification as well.

While dilution and second stage sample preparation are accomplished in the illustrative embodiment by retaining a small amount of amplified sample in the blisters and channels of the first stage PCR portion of the pouch it is understood that these processes may also be performed in other ways. In one such illustrative example pre amplified sample can be captured in a small cavity in a member illustratively a translating or rotating member able to move a fixed volume of sample from the first to the second stage PCR reagent. A one microliter fraction of the pre amplified sample mixed with 100 microliters of fresh PCR reagent would yield a one hundred fold reduction in concentration. It is understood that this dilution is illustrative only and that other volumes and dilution levels are possible. This approach could be accomplished by forcing the first stage amplification product into the rigid fitment where it contacts one of the plungers or of . In such an embodiment the plunger would be configured to carry a small fraction of the sample into contact with the adjacent dilution buffer or second stage PCR buffer. Similarly a sliding element could be used to carry a small amount of the first stage amplification product into contact with the second stage reaction mix while maintaining a seal between the stages and containing the amplified sample within the rigid fitment .

Subsequent to first stage PCR and dilution channel transfers the sample to a plurality of low volume blisters for secondary nested PCR. In one illustrative embodiment dried primers provided in the second stage blisters are resuspended by the incoming aqueous material to complete the reaction mixture. Optionally fluorescent dyes such as LCGreen Plus Idaho Technology Salt Lake City Utah used for detection of double stranded nucleic acid may be provided in each blister or may be added to the incomplete PCR master mix provided at the end of the serial dilution although it is understood that LCGreen Plus is illustrative only and that other dyes are available as are known in the art. In another optional embodiment dried fluorescently labeled oligonucleotide probes configured for each specific amplicon may be provided in each respective second stage blister along with the respective dried primers. Further while pouch is designed to contain all reactions and manipulations within to reduce contamination in some circumstances it may be desirable to remove the amplification products from each blister to do further analysis. Other means for detection of the second stage amplicon as are known in the art are within the scope of this invention. Once the sample is transferred to blisters pinch valves and are activated to close off blisters . Each blister now contains all reagents needed for amplification of a particular target. Illustratively each blister may contain a unique pair of primers or a plurality of blisters may contain the same primers to provide a number of replicate amplifications.

It is noted that the embodiments disclosed herein use blisters for the second stage amplification wherein the blisters are formed of the same or similar plastic film as the rest of the flexible portion. However in many embodiments the contents of the second stage blisters are never removed from the second stage blisters and therefore there is no need for the second stage reaction to take place in flexible blisters. It is understood that the second stage reaction may take place in a plurality of rigid semi rigid or flexible chambers that are fluidly connected to the blisters. The chambers could be sealed as in the present example by placing pressure on flexible channels that connect the chambers or may be sealed in other ways illustratively by heat sealing or use of one way valves. Various embodiments discussed herein include blisters provided solely for the collection of waste. Since the waste may never be removed waste could be collected in rigid semi rigid or flexible chambers.

It is within the scope of this invention to do the second stage amplification with the same primers used in the first stage amplification see U.S. Pat. No. 6 605 451 . However it is often advantageous to have primers in second stage reactions that are internal to the first stage product such that there is no or minimal overlap between the first and second stage primer binding sites. Dilution of first stage product largely eliminates contribution of the original template DNA and first stage reagents to the second stage reaction. Furthermore illustratively second stage primers with a Tm higher than those used in the first stage may be used to potentiate nested amplification. Primer may be designed to avoid significant hairpins hetero homo dimers and undesired hybridization. Because of the nested format second stage primers tolerate deleterious interactions far more so than primers used to amplify targets from genomic DNA in a single step. Optionally hot start is used on second stage amplification.

If a fluorescent dye is included in second stage amplification illustratively as a dsDNA binding dye or as part of a fluorescent probe as are known in the art optics provided may be used to monitor amplification of one or more of the samples. Optionally analysis of the shape of the amplification curve may be provided to call each sample positive or negative. Illustrative methods of calling the sample are discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 730 501 herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively methods employing a crossing threshold may be used. A computer may be provided externally or within the instrument and may be configured to perform the methods and call the sample positive or negative based upon the presence or absence of second stage amplification and may provide quantitative information about the starting template concentration by comparing characteristic parameters of the amplification curve such as crossing threshold to standard curves or relative to other amplification curves within the run. It is understood however that other methods as are known in the art may be used to call each sample. Other analyses may be performed on the fluorescent information. One such non limiting example is the use of melting curve analysis to show proper melting characteristics e.g. Tm melt profile shape of the amplicon. The optics provided may be configured to capture images of all blisters at once or individual optics may be provided for each individual blister. Other configurations are within the scope of this invention.

Illustrative fitment further includes an injection port formed in the second surface of fitment . Illustratively injection port is positioned closer to the plastic film portion of pouch than vacuum port as shown in such that the plunger is inserted far enough to seal off vacuum port while still allowing access to chamber via injection port . As shown second surface of plastic film portion provides a penetrable seal to prevent communication between chamber and the surrounding atmosphere via injection port . However it is understood that second surface optionally may not extend to injection port and various other seals may be employed. Further if another location for the seal is desired for example on a first surface of fitment injection port may include a channel to that location on fitment . U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 512 255 already incorporated by reference shows various configurations where the seal is located remotely from the injection port and the seal is connected to the chamber via a channel. Also U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 512 255 discloses various configurations where channels connect a single seal to multiple chambers. Variations in seal location as well as connection of a single injection port to multiple chambers are within the scope of this invention. Optionally seal may be frangible and may be broken upon insertion of a cannula not shown to allow a fluid sample from within the cannula to be drawn into or forced into chamber .

The illustrative plunger of the pouch assembly is cylindrical in shape and has a diameter of approximately 5 mm to be press fit into chamber . Plunger includes a first end portion and an opposite second end portion . As shown in a notch of plunger is formed in second end portion . In use second end portion is inserted part way into chamber and notch may be aligned with injection port to allow a fluid sample to be drawn into or injected into chamber even when plunger is inserted far enough that plunger would otherwise be blocking injection port .

Illustratively a fluid is placed in a container not shown with a syringe having a cannulated tip that can be inserted into injection port to puncture seal therein. In using an air evacuated pouch assembly when seal is punctured the fluid is withdrawn from the container due to the negative pressure within chamber relative to ambient air pressure. Fluid then passes through port to fill chamber . At this point the fluid usually does not flow into the plastic film portion of pouch . Finally the plunger is inserted into chamber such that second end portion of plunger approaches the bottom of chamber to push a measured amount of the reagent or sample into the plastic film portion . As shown plunger is configured such that upon full insertion second end portion does not quite meet bottom of chamber . The remaining space is useful in trapping bubbles thereby reducing the number of bubbles entering plastic film portion . However in some embodiments it may be desirable for second end portion to meet bottom upon full insertion of plunger . In the embodiment shown in entry channels and all lead to reaction zones or reservoir blisters. It is understood that full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a sample into three lobed blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister and full insertion of the plunger associated with entry channel would force a reagent into reservoir blister .

If a plunger design is used including notch as illustrated in the embodiment shown in the plunger may be rotated prior to being lowered so as to offset notch and to close off injection port from communication with chamber to seal the contents therein. This acts to minimize any potential backflow of fluid through injection port to the surrounding atmosphere which is particularly useful when it is desired to delay in full insertion of the plunger. Although notch is shown and described above with respect to plunger it is within the scope of this disclosure to close off injection port soon after dispensing the fluid sample into the chamber by other means such as depressing plunger toward the bottom of chamber heat sealing unidirectional valves or self sealing ports for example. If heat sealing is used as the sealing method a seal bar could be included in the instrument such that all chambers are heat sealed upon insertion of the pouch into the instrument.

In the illustrative method the user injects the sample into the injection port associated with entry channel and water into the various other injection ports. The water rehydrates reagents that have been previously freeze dried into chambers associated with each of entry channels and . The water may be injected through one single seal and then be distributed via a channel to each of the chambers as shown in below or the water could be injected into each chamber independently. Alternatively rather than injecting water to rehydrate dried reagents wet reagents such as lysis reagents nucleic acid extraction reagents and PCR reagents may be injected into the appropriate chambers of the fitment .

Upon activation of the plunger associated with entry channel the sample is forced directly into three lobed blister via channel . The user also presses the remaining plungers forcing the contents out of each of the chambers in fitment and into reservoir blisters through . At this point pouch is loaded into an instrument for processing. While instrument shown in is configured for the pouch of it is understood that modification of the configuration of the bladders of instrument would render instrument suitable for use with pouches and or with pouches of other configurations.

In one illustrative example upon depression of the plungers reservoir blister now contains DNA binding magnetic beads in isopropanol reservoir blister now contains a first wash solution reservoir blister now contains a second wash solution reservoir blister now contains a nucleic acid elution buffer reservoir blister now contains first stage PCR reagents including multiplexed first stage primers reservoir blister now contains second stage PCR reagents without primers reservoir blister now contains negative control PCR reagents without primers and without template and reservoir blister now contains positive control PCR reagents with template. However it is understood that these reagents are illustrative only and that other reagents may be used depending upon the desired reactions and optimization conditions.

Once pouch has been placed into instrument and the sample has been moved to three lobed blister the sample may be subjected to disruption by agitating the sample with lysing particles such as ZS or ceramic beads. The lysing particles may be provided in three lobed blister or may be injected into three lobed blister along with the sample. The three lobed blister of is operated in much the same way as three lobed blister of with the two lower lobes pressurized together and pressure is alternated between the upper lobe and the two lower lobes . However as illustrated lower lobes are much more rounded than lower lobes allowing for a smooth flow of beads to channel and allowing for high speed collisions even without the triangular flow separator at nexus . As with three lobed blister three lobed blister of allows for effective lysis or disruption of microorganisms cells and viral particles in the sample. It has been found that a channel having a width of about 3 4 mm and illustratively about 3.5 mm remains relatively clear of beads during lysis and is effective in providing for high velocity collisions.

After lysis nucleic acid binding magnetic beads are injected into upper lobe via channel by pressurizing a bladder positioned over reservoir blister . The magnetic beads are mixed illustratively more gently than with during lysis with the contents of three lobed blister and the solution is incubated illustratively for about 1 minute to allow nucleic acids to bind to the beads.

The solution is then pumped into the FIG. blister via channel where the beads are captured by a retractable magnet housed in the instrument which is illustratively pneumatically driven. The bead capture process begins by pressurizing all lobes and of the bead milling apparatus . This forces much of the liquid contents of through channel and into blister . A magnet is brought into contact with the lower portion of blister and the sample is incubated for several seconds to allow the magnet to capture the beads from the solution then the bladders adjacent to blister are depressurized the bladders adjacent blister portions and are pressurized and the liquid is forced back into blister . Since not all of the beads are captured in a single pass this process may be repeated up to 10 times to capture substantially all of the beads in blister . Then the liquid is forced out of blister leaving behind only the magnetic beads and the captured nucleic acids and wash reagents are introduced into blister in two successive washes from reservoir blisters and via channels and respectively . In each wash the bladder positioned over the reservoir blister containing the wash reagent is pressurized forcing the contents into blister . The magnet is withdrawn and the pellet containing the magnetic beads is disrupted by alternatively pressurizing each of two bladders covering each lobe and of blister . When the upper lobe is compressed the liquid contents are forced into the lower lobe and when the lower lobe is compressed the contents are forced into the upper lobe . By agitating the solution in blister between upper lobe and lower lobe the magnetic beads are effectively washed of impurities. A balance is maintained between inadequate agitation leaving the pellet of beads undisturbed and excessive agitation potentially washing the nucleic acids from the surface of the beads and losing them with the wash reagents. After each wash cycle the magnetic beads are captured via the magnet in blister and the wash reagents are illustratively forced into three lobed blister which now serves as a waste receptacle. However it is understood that the used reservoir blisters may also serve as waste receptacles or other blisters may be provided specifically as waste receptacles.

Nucleic acid elution buffer from reservoir blister is then injected via channel into blister the sample is once again agitated and the magnetic beads are recaptured by employment of the magnet. The fluid mixture in blister now contains nucleic acids from the original sample. Pressure on blister moves the nucleic acid sample to the first stage PCR blister via channel where the sample is mixed with first stage PCR master mix containing multiple primer sets the PCR master mix provided from reservoir blister via channel . If desired the sample and or the first stage PCR master mix may be heated prior to mixing to provide advantages of hot start. Optionally components for reverse transcription of RNA targets may be provided prior to first stage PCR. Alternatively an RT enzyme illustratively a thermostable RT enzyme may be provided in the first stage PCR master mix to allow for contemporaneous reverse transcription of RNA targets. It is understood that an RT enzyme may be present in the first stage PCR mixture in any of the embodiments disclosed herein. As will be seen below pouch of is configured for up to 10 primer sets but it is understood that the configuration may be altered and any number of primer sets may be used. A bladder positioned over blister is pressurized at low pressure to force the contents of blister into intimate contact with a heating cooling element illustratively a Peltier element on the other side of blister . The pressure on blister should be sufficient to assure good contact with the heating cooling element but should be gentle enough such that fluid is not forced from blister . The heating cooling element is temperature cycled illustratively between about 60 C. to about 95 C. Illustratively temperature cycling is performed for about 15 20 cycles resulting in amplification of one or more nucleic acid targets present. Also illustratively temperature cycling ceases prior to plateau phase and may cease in log phase or even prior to log phase. In one example it may be desirable merely to enrich the sample with the desired amplicons without reaching minimal levels of detection. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 605 451 herein incorporated by reference.

The amplified sample is optionally then diluted by forcing most the sample back into blister via channel leaving only a small amount illustratively about 1 to 5 of the amplified sample in blister and second stage PCR master mix is provided from reservoir blister via channel . The sample is thoroughly mixed illustratively by moving it back and forth between blisters and via channel . If desired the reaction mixture may be heated to above extension temperature illustratively at least 60 C. prior to second stage amplification. The sample is then forced through channel into an array of low volume blisters in the center of second stage amplification zone . Each of the ten illustrative low volume blisters may contain a different primer pair either essentially the same as one of the primer pairs in the first stage amplification or nested within the first stage primer pair to amplify a shortened amplicon. The primers now hydrated by the sample complete the amplification mixture. Positive and negative control samples are also introduced by pressurizing the contents of reservoir blisters and respectively forcing PCR master mix either without target DNA from reservoir blister via channel or with control DNA from reservoir blister via channel . As illustrated there are five each of positive control blisters and negative control blisters which may be multiplexed 2 fold to provide the necessary controls for ten different second stage amplification reactions. It is understood that this configuration is illustrative only and that any number of second stage blisters may be provided.

Illustratively the PCR master mix used for second stage amplification lacks the primers but is otherwise complete. However an incomplete PCR master mix may lack other PCR components as well. In one example the second stage PCR master mix is water or buffer only which is then mixed with the optionally diluted first stage PCR amplification product. This mixture is moved to the small volume PCR reaction blisters where all of the remaining components have been previously provided. If desired all of the remaining components may be mixed together and spotted as a single mixture into the small volume PCR reaction blisters. Alternatively as illustrated in each of the components may be spotted onto a separate region of the small volume PCR reaction blister . As shown in four regions are present illustratively with dNTPs spotted at region primers spotted at polymerase spotted at and a magnesium compound spotted at . By spotting the components separately and heating the sample mixture prior to rehydrating the components nonspecific reactions can be minimized. It is understood that any combination of components can be spotted this way and that this method of spotting components into one or more regions of the blisters may be used with any embodiment of the present invention.

The channels and leading to the small volume PCR reaction blisters and are sealed and a pneumatic bladder gently presses the array against a heating cooling element illustratively a Peltier element for thermal cycling. The cycling parameters may be independently set for second stage thermal cycling. Illustratively the reactions are monitored by focusing an excitation source illustratively a blue light 450 490 nm onto the array and imaging the resultant fluorescent emissions illustratively fluorescent emissions above 510 nm.

In the above example pinch valves are not discussed. However it is understood that when it is desired to contain a sample in one of the blisters pneumatic actuators positioned over channels leading to and from the particular blister are pressurized creating pinch valves and closing off the channels. Conversely when it is desired to move a sample from one of the blisters the appropriate pneumatic actuator is depressurized allowing the sample flow through the channel.

The pouch described above in includes reagent reservoir blisters through in which the user injected reagents from the fitment into the reagent reservoir blisters through in the plastic film portion of the pouch illustratively prior to insertion of pouch into the instrument. While there are advantages to the use of the reagent reservoir blisters of including having the ability to maintain the contents of the various blisters at different temperatures there are some disadvantages as well. Because the operator is responsible for moving the reagents from the fitment to the reservoir blisters through and because this is often done outside of the machine and thus without activated pinch valves reagents could occasionally leak from the reservoir blisters to the working blisters. The reagents in reservoir blisters are exposed during preparation and loading. If they are pressed squeezed or even lightly bumped the reagents may leak through available channels. If the loss of reagents is substantial the reaction may fail completely. Furthermore during operation there may be some variability in the amount of reagent forced from the reservoir blisters through leading to inconsistent results. Automation of introduction of the reagents to fitment and movement of the reagents from fitment to reagent reservoir blisters through would solve many of these problems and is within the scope of this invention.

The pouch of addresses many of these issues in a different way by using a direct injection approach wherein the instrument itself moves the plungers illustratively via pneumatic pistons and forces the reagents into the various working blisters as the reagents are needed. Rather than storing the reagents in reservoir blisters through of in the embodiment of the reagents are introduced into various chambers of fitment and are maintained there until needed. Pneumatic operation of piston at the appropriate time introduces a measured amount of the reagent to the appropriate reaction blister. In addition to addressing many of the above mentioned issues pouch also has a much more compact shape allowing for a smaller instrument design and pouch has shorter channels permitting better fluid flow and minimizing reagent loss in channels.

In one illustrative embodiment of a 300 l mixture comprising the sample to be tested 100 l and lysis buffer 200 l is injected into injection port . Water is also injected into the fitment via seal hydrating up to eleven different reagents each of which were previously provided in dry form in chambers through via channel shown in shadow . These reagents illustratively may include freeze dried PCR reagents DNA extraction reagents wash solutions immunoassay reagents or other chemical entities. For the example of the reagents are for nucleic acid extraction first stage multiplex PCR dilution of the multiplex reaction and preparation of second stage PCR reagents and control reactions. In the embodiment shown in all that need be injected is the sample in port and water in port

As shown in water injected via seal is distributed to various chambers via channel . In this embodiment only the sample and water need be injected into pouch . It is understood however that water could be injected into each chamber independently. Further it is understood that rather than providing dried reagents in the various chambers and hydrating upon injection of the water specific wet reagents could be injected into each chamber as desired. Additionally it is understood that one or more of chambers could be provided with water only and the necessary reagents may be provided dried in the appropriate reaction blisters. Various combinations of the above as dictated by the needs of the particular reaction are within the scope of this invention.

As seen in optional protrusions are provided on bottom surface of fitment . As shown protrusions are located within their respective entry channels . However other configurations are possible. Protrusions assist in opening entry channel and prevent bottom surface from engaging another flat surface in such a way to pinch off entry channels when plungers are depressed which helps prevent back flow upon activation of the plungers . Such protrusions may be used on any of the various pouches according to the present invention.

In embodiments wherein water is injected into the pouch to hydrate multiple dry reagents in multiple chambers in the fitment a means of closing the channel between the injection port and the many chambers is desired. If the channel is not closed activation of each plunger may force some of the contents of its respective chamber back out into the channel potentially contaminating neighboring chambers and altering the volumes contained in and delivered from the chamber. Several ways of closing this channel have been used including rotating a notched plunger as discussed above and heat sealing the plastic film across the channel thereby closing the channel permanently and applying pressure to the channel as a pinch valve. Other closures may also be used such as valves built into the fitment illustratively one way valves.

After the fluids are loaded into chambers and pouch is loaded into the instrument plunger is depressed illustratively via activation of a pneumatic piston forcing the balance of the sample into three lobed blister via channel . As with the embodiments shown in the lobes and of three lobed blister are sequentially compressed via action bladders and of bladder assembly shown in forcing the liquid through the narrow nexus between the lobes and driving high velocity collisions shearing the sample and liberating nucleic acids illustratively including nucleic acids from hard to open spores bacteria and fungi. Cell lysis continues for an appropriate length of time illustratively 0.5 to 10 minutes.

Once the cells have been adequately lysed plunger is activated and nucleic acid binding magnetic beads stored in chamber are injected via channel into upper lobe of three lobed blister . The sample is mixed with the magnetic beads and the mixture is allowed to incubate for an appropriate length of time illustratively approximately 10 seconds to 10 minutes.

The mixture of sample and beads are forced through channel into blister via action of bladder then through channel and into blister via action of bladder where a retractable magnet located in instrument adjacent blister shown in captures the magnetic beads from the solution forming a pellet against the interior surface of blister . A pneumatic bladder positioned over blister then forces the liquid out of blister and back through blister and into blister which is now used as a waste receptacle. However as discussed above with respect to other waste receptacles are within the scope of this invention. One of plungers and may be activated to provide a wash solution to blister via channel and then to blister via channel . Optionally the magnet is retracted and the magnetic beads are washed by moving the beads back and forth from blisters and via channel by alternatively pressurizing bladders and . Once the magnetic beads are washed the magnetic beads are recaptured in blister by activation of magnet and the wash solution is then moved to blister . This process may be repeated as necessary to wash the lysis buffer and sample debris from the nucleic acid binding magnetic beads. Illustratively three washes are done one each using wash reagents in chambers and . However it is understood that more or fewer washes are within the scope of this invention. If more washes are desired more chambers may be provided. Alternatively each chamber may hold a larger volume of fluid and activation of the plungers may force only a fraction of the volume from the chamber upon each activation.

After washing elution buffer stored in chamber is moved via channel to blister and the magnet is retracted. The solution is cycled between blisters and via channel breaking up the pellet of magnetic beads in blister and allowing the captured nucleic acids to dissociate from the beads and come into solution. The magnet is once again activated capturing the magnetic beads in blister and the eluted nucleic acid solution is forced into blister .

Plunger is depressed and first stage PCR master mix from chamber is mixed with the nucleic acid sample in blister . Optionally the mixture is mixed by alternative activation of bladders and forcing the mixture between and via channel . After several cycles of mixing the solution is contained in blister where first stage multiplex PCR is performed. If desired prior to mixing the sample may be retained in blister while the first stage PCR master mix is pre heated illustratively by moving the first stage PCR master mix into blister or by providing a heater adjacent blister . As discussed above this pre heating may provide the benefits of hot start PCR. The instrument illustrated in features Peltier based thermal cyclers and which heat and cool the sample. However it is understood that other heater cooler devices may be used as discussed above. Optionally mixing between blisters and may continue during temperature cycling with thermal cycler positioned to heat and cool both blisters and . It has been found that such mixing improves the first stage PCR reaction in some embodiments. Also thermal cycling can be accomplished by varying the temperatures in two or more different blisters allowing minimal energy expenditure and maximizing thermal cycling speed. For example the temperature can be maintained at 95 C. in blister and 65 C. blister and moving the sample between these blisters effectively transfers heat into and out of the sample allowing rapid and accurate thermal cycling. Temperature cycling is illustratively performed for 15 20 cycles although other levels of amplification may be desirable depending on the application as discussed above. As will be seen below the second stage amplification zone is configured to detect amplification in 18 second stage reactions. Accordingly 18 different primer pairs may be included in the PCR reaction in blister .

In an alternative hot start method pouch is manufactured with the primers provided in one of the blisters illustratively blister . In one embodiment the primers are freeze dried separately and then introduced during manufacture into blister as a friable pellet. Prior to first stage PCR illustratively the sample is eluted from blister and pushed to blister to rehydrate the primer pellet. Peltier which is positioned adjacent blisters and is heated to 48 C. and PCR master mix is pushed to blister . After a hold illustratively for 10 seconds during which the two blisters reach 48 C. mixing between blisters and begins. Thus the enzymes and dNTPs remain in blister and most of the sample and the primers remain in blister until the components separately have reached 48 C. It is understood however that the choice of 48 C. was made for use with concurrent first stage amplification and RT using AMV which is active up to 50 C. If RT is not needed or a more thermostable RT enzyme is used then one or both of the two blisters and may be heated up to 58 C. or even higher depending on the primer melting temperature or other factors in a particular first stage amplification protocol. It is understood that this hot start method may be used with any embodiment of the present invention.

In an alternative embodiment to reduce the complexity of the first stage PCR reaction blister may be divided into two or more blisters. It is believed that the number of nonspecific products of a multiplex reaction goes up as the square or possibly higher power of the number of primers in the mixture while the loss of sensitivity of an assay is a linear function of the amount of input sample. Thus for example splitting the first stage PCR into two reactions each of half the volume of the single reaction of this embodiment would reduce sensitivity by two fold but the quantity and complexity of the nonspecific reactions would be as much. If blister is divided into or more blisters blister may be divided into a number of blisters equal to the number of blisters . Each respective blister would be connected to its respective blister via a respective channel . Each blister would be provided with a pellet comprising a subset of all primers. Sample from blister would be divided across each blister each blister would be sealed from all others and thermal cycling would proceed with each pair of blisters and as described above. After thermal cycling the sample would be recombined into blister or individually sent to separate sets of second stage blisters.

After first stage PCR has proceeded for the desired number of cycles the sample may be diluted as discussed above with respect to the embodiment of by forcing most of the sample back into blister leaving only a small amount and adding second stage PCR master mix from chamber . Alternatively a dilution buffer from may be moved to blister via channel and then mixed with the amplified sample in blister by moving the fluids back and forth between blisters and . After mixing a portion of the diluted sample remaining in blister is forced away to three lobed blister now the waste receptacle. If desired dilution may be repeated several times using dilution buffer from chambers and and then adding second stage PCR master mix from chamber to some or all of the diluted amplified sample. It is understood that the level of dilution may be adjusted by altering the number of dilution steps or by altering the percentage of the sample discarded prior to mixing with the dilution buffer or second stage PCR master mix. If desired this mixture of the sample and second stage PCR master mix may be pre heated in blister prior to movement to second stage blisters for second stage amplification. As discussed above such preheating may obviate the need for a hot start component antibody chemical or otherwise in the second stage PCR mixture.

The illustrative second stage PCR master mix is incomplete lacking primer pairs and each of the 18 second stage blisters is pre loaded with a specific PCR primer pair. If desired second stage PCR master mix may lack other reaction components and these components may then be pre loaded in the second stage blisters as well. As discussed above with the prior examples each primer pair may be identical to a first stage PCR primer pair or may be nested within the first stage primer pair. Movement of the sample from blister to the second stage blisters completes the PCR reaction mixture. Control samples from chamber are also moved to control blisters via channel . The control samples may be positive or negative controls as desired. Illustratively each pouch would contain control reactions that validate the operation of each step in the process and demonstrate that positive results are not the result of self contamination with previously amplified nucleic acids. However this is not practical in many protocols particularly for a highly multiplexed reaction. One illustrative way of providing suitable controls involves spiking samples with a species such as baker s yeast. The nucleic acids are extracted from the yeast alongside other nucleic acids. First and second stage PCR reactions amplify DNA and or RNA targets from the yeast genome. Illustratively an mRNA sequence derived from a spliced pre mRNA can be used to generate an RNA specific target sequence by arranging the primer sequences to span an intron. A quantative analysis of the yeast copy number against reference standards allows substantial validation that each component of the system is working. Negative control reactions for each of the many second stage assays are more problematic. It may be desirable to run control reactions either in parallel or in a separate run.

Activation of bladder of bladder assembly seals the samples into their respective second stage blisters and activation of bladder provides gentle pressure on second stage blisters to force second stage blisters into contact with a heater cooler device. A window positioned over the second stage amplification zone allows fluorescence monitoring of the array during PCR and during a DNA melting curve analysis of the reaction products.

It is noted that the pouch of has several unsealed areas such as unsealed area and unsealed area . These unsealed areas form blisters that are not involved in any of the reactions in this illustrative embodiment. Rather these unsealed areas are provided in space between the working blisters and channels. In some manufacturing processes as compared to pouches that are sealed in all unused space it has been found that fewer leaks sometimes result when unsealed areas such as and are provided presumably by reducing problematic wrinkles in the film material. Such unsealed areas optionally may be provided on any pouch embodiment.

Illustratively the bladder assembly and pneumatic valve assembly are mounted on movable member while the heaters and are mounted on support member . However it is understood that this arrangement is illustrative only and that other arrangements are possible. As bladder assembly and pneumatic valve assembly are mounted on movable support member these pneumatic actuators may be moved toward pouch such that the pneumatic actuators are placed in contact with pouch . When pouch is inserted into instrument and movable support member is moved toward support member the various blisters of pouch are in a position adjacent to the various pneumatic bladders of bladder assembly and the various pneumatic pistons of pneumatic valve assembly such that activation of the pneumatic actuators may force liquid from one or more of the blisters of pouch or may form pinch valves with one or more channels of pouch . The relationship between the blisters and channels of pouch and the pneumatic actuators of bladder assembly and pneumatic valve assembly are discussed in more detail below with respect to .

Each pneumatic actuator has one or more pneumatic fittings. For example bladder of bladder assembly has pneumatic fitting and pneumatic piston has its associated pneumatic fitting . In the illustrative embodiment each of the pneumatic fittings of bladder assembly extends through a passageway in movable support member where a hose connects each pneumatic fitting to compressed air source via valves . In the illustrative embodiment the passageways not only provide access to compressed air source but the passageways also aid in aligning the various components of bladder assembly so that the bladders align properly with the blisters of pouch .

Similarly pneumatic valve assembly is also mounted on movable support member although it is understood that other configurations are possible. In the illustrative embodiment pins on pneumatic valve assembly mount in mounting openings on movable support member and pneumatic pistons and extend through passageways in movable support member to contact pouch . As illustrated bladder assembly is mounted on a first side of movable support member while pneumatic valve assembly is mounted on a second side of movable support member . However because pneumatic pistons and extend through passageways the pneumatic pistons of pneumatic valve assembly and the pneumatic bladders of bladder assembly work together to provide the necessary pneumatic actuators for pouch .

As discussed above each of the pneumatic actuators of bladder assembly and pneumatic valve assembly has an associated pneumatic fitting. While only several hoses are shown in it is understood that each pneumatic fitting is connected via a hose to the compressed gas source . Compressed gas source may be a compressor or alternatively compressed gas source may be a compressed gas cylinder such as a carbon dioxide cylinder. Compressed gas cylinders are particularly useful if portability is desired. Other sources of compressed gas are within the scope of this invention.

Several other components of instrument are also connected to compressed gas source . Magnet which is mounted on a first side of support member is illustratively deployed and retracted using gas from compressed gas source via hose although other methods of moving magnet are known in the art. Magnet sits in recess in support member . It is understood that recess can be a passageway through support member so that magnet can contact blister of pouch . However depending on the material of support member it is understood that recess need not extend all the way through support member as long as when magnet is deployed magnet is close enough to provide a sufficient magnetic field at blister and when magnet is retracted magnet does not significantly affect any magnetic beads present in blister . While reference is made to retracting magnet it is understood that an electromagnet may be used and the electromagnet may be activated and inactivated by controlling flow of electricity through the electromagnet. Thus while this specification discusses withdrawing or retracting the magnet it is understood that these terms are broad enough to incorporate other ways of withdrawing the magnetic field. It is understood that the pneumatic connections may be pneumatic hoses or pneumatic air manifolds thus reducing the number of hoses or valves required.

The various pneumatic pistons of pneumatic piston array which is mounted on support are also connected to compressed gas source via hoses . While only two hoses are shown connecting pneumatic pistons to compressed gas source it is understood that each of the pneumatic pistons are connected to compressed gas source . Twelve pneumatic pistons are shown. When the pouch is inserted into instrument the twelve pneumatic pistons are positioned to activate their respective twelve plungers of pouch . When lid is closed over pouch a lip on lid provides a support for fitment so that as the pneumatic pistons are activated lid holds fitment in place. It is understood that other supports for fitment are within the scope of this invention.

A pair of heating cooling devices illustratively Peltier heaters are mounted on a second side of support . First stage heater is positioned to heat and cool the contents of blister for first stage PCR. Second stage heater is positioned to heat and cool the contents of second stage blisters and of pouch for second stage PCR. It is understood however that these heaters could also be used for other heating purposes and that other heaters may be included as appropriate for the particular application.

If desired a feedback mechanism not shown may be included in instrument for providing feedback regarding whether the sample has actually been forced into a particular blister. Illustrative feedback mechanisms include temperature or pressure sensors or optical detectors particularly if a fluorescent or colored dye is included. Such feedback mechanisms illustratively may be mounted on either of support members or . For example a pressure sensor may be mounted on support adjacent the location of blister . When the sample is supposedly moved to blister if the pressure sensor is depressed then sample processing is allowed to continue. However if the pressure sensor is not depressed then sample processing may be stopped or an error message may be displayed on screen . Any combination or all of the blisters may have feedback mechanisms to provide feedback regarding proper movement of the sample through the pouch.

When fluorescent detection is desired an optical array may be provided. As shown in optical array includes a light source illustratively a filtered LED light source filtered white light or laser illumination and a camera . A window through movable support provides optical array with access to second stage amplification zone of pouch . Camera illustratively has a plurality of photodetectors each corresponding to a second stage blister in pouch . Alternatively camera may take images that contain all of the second stage blisters and the image may be divided into separate fields corresponding to each of the second stage blisters . Depending on the configuration optical array may be stationary or optical array may be placed on movers attached to one or more motors and moved to obtain signals from each individual second stage blister . It is understood that other arrangements are possible.

As shown a computer controls valves of compressed air source and thus controls all of the pneumatics of instrument . Computer also controls heaters and and optical array . Each of these components is connected electrically illustratively via cables although other physical or wireless connections are within the scope of this invention. It is understood that computer may be housed within instrument or may be external to instrument . Further computer may include built in circuit boards that control some or all of the components and may also include an external computer such as a desktop or laptop PC to receive and display data from the optical array. An interface illustratively a keyboard interface may be provided including keys for inputting information and variables such as temperatures cycle times etc. Illustratively a display is also provided. Display may be an LED LCD or other such display for example.

There are two main differences between pouch of and pouch of . First three lobed blister has been replaced by lysis blister . Lysis blister is configured for vortexing via impaction using rotating blades or paddles attached to electric motor as shown in . Since this method of lysing does not rely on alternating pressure of pneumatic pistons only a single lobed blister is shown. Because lysis blister has only a single lobe both channels and lead to the single lobe of lysis blister . It is understood that lysis blister may be used in any of the pouch embodiments described herein. It is further understood that lysis assembly illustratively may be modified to replace bladders and of bladder sub assembly with a single bladder configured for blister . Conversely a three lobed blister as described in various other embodiments above may be used in pouch . Lysis blister may be provided with an optional reinforcing patch illustratively attached using adhesive or lamination to the exterior surface of lysis blister . Reinforcing patch aids in minimizing tearing of pouch due to repeated contact by paddles . shows an electric motor illustratively a Mabuchi RC 280SA 2865 DC Motor Chiba Japan mounted on second support member . In one illustrative embodiment the motor is turned at 5 000 to 25 000 rpm more illustratively 10 000 to 20 000 rpm and still more illustratively approximately 15 000 to 18 000 rpm. For the Mabuchi motor it has been found that 7.2V provides sufficient rpm for lysis. It is understood however that the actual speed may be somewhat slower when the blades are impacting pouch . Other voltages and speeds may be used for lysis depending on the motor and paddles used. Optionally controlled small volumes of air may be provided into the bladder adjacent lysis blister . It has been found that in some embodiments partially filling the adjacent bladder with one or more small volumes of air aids in positioning and supporting lysis blister during the lysis process. Alternatively other structure illustratively a rigid or compliant gasket or other retaining structure around lysis blister can be used to restrain pouch during lysis.

The second main difference between pouch of and pouch of is that the blisters and of second stage amplification zone have been replaced by high density array in second stage amplification zone . High density array comprises a plurality of second stage wells illustratively 50 or more wells and even more illustratively 120 or more wells. Embodiments with more second stage wells illustratively about 200 about 400 or even about 500 or more are within the scope of this invention. Other configurations are within the scope of this invention as well. Additional second stage wells may be added by making wells smaller by making high density array larger or a combination thereof. For second stage PCR each of the wells may contain a pair of primers. It is understood that one or more wells may be used for positive or negative controls.

Cross contamination between wells as the wells are filled with the diluted first stage amplification product in blister can be a major problem. Cross contamination was controlled in pouch by filling each second stage blister through a separate branch of channel and then sealing with bladder illustrated in . With high density array wherein fluid may fill some or all of blister cross contamination between wells must also be controlled. In one embodiment the second stage PCR primers may be bound covalently or non covalently to the inside surface of each well thus functioning much like a PCR chip. However in many embodiments it is desirable to control cross contamination between wells without tethering the PCR primers to the wells. Controlling cross contamination between wells can be difficult in an embodiment wherein the fluid from blister is moved to wells by flowing across a first surface of high density array .

There are several desirable features for successful loading of the second stage amplification zone . First it is desirable that the incoming fluid from blister fill substantially all of the wells to substantially the same level. An unfilled well would produce a false negative signal. Second it is desirable that the process of filling the wells should not cause the primers in the well to leak out. Loss of primers from one well can limit the efficiency of the PCR reaction in that well and can contaminate neighboring wells. Third after the wells have been filled and PCR started it is desirable that the wells be completely sealed from each other. Amplicon leakage out of one well and into another well can lower signal in the first well and raise signal in the second well potentially leading to a false negative in the first well and a false positive in the second well. Further for certain kinds of controls it is important that amplicon generated in one well not enter another well where it can be further amplified.

Solutions to this problem include use of a barrier layer. In one example the barrier layer is a physical barrier that is provided to allow for rapid loading of the wells and for rapid sealing from the bulk fluid. In another example combined chemical and physical barriers are used wherein the physical barrier is used to seal the wells and then the chemical barrier conditionally releases the oligonucleotide primers into the well solution for example by heating slow release or enzymatic digestion. Well depth or channel length to each well also may be used to control release of the reagents from the wells. Other means for loading high density array are possible.

It is understood that piercings align with wells . It is also understood that piercings are small enough that absent some force fluid does not readily flow through piercings . Illustrative piercings may be 0.001 0.1 mm more illustratively 0.005 0.02 mm and more illustratively about 0.01 mm. In the illustrative embodiment second stage amplification zone is provided under vacuum such that when fluid is received from blister the vacuum draws fluid through piercings into each well . Once the wells are filled a force is no longer present to force fluid into or out of the wells . A bladder adjacent second stage amplification zone not shown but similar in position to bladders may then be activated to press first layer against high density array and seal fluid into the wells . While first layer of pouch is used to seal the wells it is understood that an optional sealing layer may be provided between pierced layer and first layer .

In one illustrative example second stage amplification zone may be prepared as follows. High density array may be prepared by first punching molding or otherwise forming an array of wells in a plastic sheet illustratively 0.1 to 1 mm thick . The wells may form any regular or irregular array that is desired and may have a volume illustratively of 0.05 l to 20 l and more illustratively of 0.1 l to 4 l. One of layers or is then laminated to a first surface of high density array illustratively by heat or adhesive. As shown in pierced layer is applied to first surface . Reagents illustratively elements of the chemistry of the array that are unique such as PCR primer pairs are then spotted into the wells either manually by pipetting or automatically illustratively using x y positionable spotters such as pin spotters dot matrix printers small volume automatic pipettes or micro fluidic micro contact spotters . After the reagents have been dried in each well the second of layers or is applied to the second surface of array . Layer is pierced using an array of small diameter needles to form piercings . Piercings may be formed either before or after layer has been fixed to array . It is understood that spotting can be done on either layer before or after piercing or on layer . Spotting an array with holes pre pierced has not shown to leak substantially and offers the advantage that the needles used for piercing are not contaminated by touching the spotted reagents. Alternatively to minimize the possibility of leakage and to position the spotted reagents at the most distant location in the array it may be desirable to spot the reagents onto second layer seal the array with layer and then pierce layer . In an illustrative example reagents are spotted onto second layer using a GeSiM A060 324 Nano Plotter 2.1 E Grosserkmannsdorf Germany . Using such a spotter multiple arrays may be spotted simultaneously.

Once spotted and pierced array is placed inside layers and of pouch and sealed in place illustratively by either heat sealing using an adhesive ultrasonically welding mechanical closure or other means of enclosing array inside pouch within blister . It is understood that blister is fluidly connected to blister via channel and that liquid can flow from channel into blister and over piercings . In one illustrative example when blister is formed care is taken to allow a path for air to escape. This can be accomplished by waffling the inside surface of first layer adjacent to second stage amplification zone to imprint the film material with a pattern of slightly raised texture. This allows air and liquid to pass along the surface of pierced layer and better allows liquid to reach and fill all of wells . The pouch is then placed inside a vacuum chamber and evacuated. Illustratively when the pressure has reached approximately 0.3 millibars a pneumatic cylinder inside the vacuum chamber is actuated driving down a plunger into fitment to seal channel thereby cutting the path from the array inside the sealed pouch and the vacuum chamber. A plurality of other plungers are also driven into fitment to seal the various entry channels . The pouch is removed from the vacuum chamber and may be packaged for long term storage in a vacuum bag.

Pouch may be used in a manner similar to pouch . Because array is packaged in vacuum when liquid is moved from blister to second stage amplification zone the liquid sample is drawn through piercings and into wells . Excess liquid is forced away by inflating a pneumatic bladder over the array and thermal cycling is accomplished as described above illustratively by heating and cooling a Peltier element pressed against one side of the array.

As mentioned above pierced layer may be replaced by a variety of suitable physical or chemical barriers. In one illustrative embodiment using a chemical barrier pierced layer is omitted and reagents are spotted into wells in a buffer that dissolves relatively slowly. Illustratively reagents that contain polymers such as PEG Ficoll or polysorbate or sugars such as sucrose trehalose or mannitol in appropriate concentrations will be compatible with the second stage PCR reaction and may dissolve more slowly than primers spotted solely in water or Tris EDTA. The primers spotted in one of these buffers may be air dried into the wells as described above it is understood that in such an embodiment second layer is affixed to high density array for spotting . These same polymers may be used in lyophilization of enzyme reagents e.g. the enzymes and buffers used in PCR to form an open matrix containing the stabilized enzymes. Thus the primers spotted in these buffers can be lyophilized in place in the wells leading to slower but potentially more complete rehydration than with air drying. When pouch is used the fluid from blister is driven into the well by vacuum or pressure and starts to dissolve the primer mix. By selecting a buffer that dissolves suitably slowly when the bladder adjacent second stage amplification zone is actuated the contents of each well is sealed therein prior to any substantial cross contamination.

Another embodiment uses a matrix that does not dissolve until second stage amplification zone is heated above a predetermined temperature. One example of such a matrix is low melt agarose such as GenePure LowMelt Agarose ISC Bioexpress . In one example a 1.5 solution of this agarose melts at 65 C. and gels at 24 28 C. Prior to spotting reagents illustratively may be warmed to 50 C. and mixed with this agarose that had already been melted and then spotted into wells in a small volume illustratively 100 to 500 nl . To keep the mixture liquid during spotting this may have to be done in a cabinet heated above the melting temperature of the agarose. Alternatively it may be possible to pipette dilute solutions of the agarose without melting. After the agarose reagent mixture is spotted the high density array is dried. This can be a simple air drying or the primer agarose mixture can contain the sugars and polymers listed above so that the reagents can be freeze dried. When pouch is used for PCR second stage amplification zone may be heated illustratively to 55 C. as the fluid from blister is moved into high density array . At this temperature the agarose does not melt so the primers are not released into solution. Once high density array is filled the corresponding bladder is inflated to seal the wells. When the temperature rises above 65 C. in the first denaturation step of the first PCR cycle the agarose containing the primers melts releasing the primers into the master mix. Illustratively thermal cycling never goes below 60 C. or other melting temperature for the agarose so that the agarose does not gel during thermal cycling. Furthermore in the illustrative instrument of the repeated temperature cycling is driven by heater which is located on one side of the pouch. It is expected that there will often be a temperature gradient across the PCR solution in wells which should facilitate mixing of the primers by convective fluid flow. Wax may also be used in a similar embodiment.

In a further embodiment the primers may be conditionally bound to the wells with subsequent releasing of the primers into solution after the wells have been filled. Depending upon how the primers are attached to the plastic substrate the primers may be cleaved using heat illustratively during the first cycle of the PCR reaction light illustratively irradiating through window chemicals e.g. dithiothreitol together with heat will reduce disulfide bonds that may be used to link primers to the wells or enzymes e.g. site specific proteases such at Tissue Plasminogen Activator can be used to cleave the proper peptide linker attaching primers to the substrate .

In yet another embodiment a DNase may be injected into second stage amplification zone subsequent to amplification to minimize further any potential risk of contamination.

It is understood that second stage amplification zone has been described herein for use with PCR. However other uses for pouch and second stage amplification zone are within the scope of this invention. Further it is understood that second stage amplification zone may be used with or without nucleic acid extraction and a first stage PCR amplification zone. Finally it is understood that second stage amplification zone may be used with any of the pouch embodiments described herein.

A set of reactions was run in a pouch of on an instrument similar to instrument but configured for pouch . To show cell lysis and effectiveness of the two stage nucleic acid amplification 50 L each of a live culture of and at log phase was mixed with 100 L of a nasopharyngeal aspirate sample from a healthy donor to form the sample then mixed with 200 L lysis buffer 6M guanidine HCl 15 TritonX 100 3M sodium acetate. 300 L of the 400 L sample in lysis buffer was then injected into chamber of pouch .

The pouch was manufactured with 0.25 g ZS beads sealed in three lobed blister . Second stage primers as discussed below were also spotted in blisters and during manufacture of pouch . The pouch was loaded as follows 

During manufacture second stage blisters and were spotted with nested second stage primers. Each blister was spotted with one primer pair in an amount to result in a final concentration of about 0.3 M once rehydrated with the second stage PCR buffer. The second stage nested primers are as follows 

After loading activation of the plunger associated with entry channel moved the sample to three lobed blister activation of the plunger associated with entry channel moved the magnetic beads to reservoir activation of the plungers associated with entry channels moved wash buffer to reservoirs and activation of the plunger associated with entry channel moved elution buffer to reservoir activation of the plunger associated with entry channel moved first stage PCR buffer to reservoir activation of the plungers associated with entry channels moved second stage PCR buffer to reservoirs and and activation of the plunger associated with entry channel moved the positive control second stage PCR buffer with a sample of previously prepared first stage amplicon to reservoir . In this present example the plungers associated with entry channels and were depressed prior to loading the pouch into the instrument. All other plungers were depressed sequentially in the instrument during the run and fluids were moved to reservoirs through as needed.

Once pouch was placed into the instrument and beating took place for ten minutes in the presence of ZS beads as described above. Once cell lysis was complete reservoir was compressed and nucleic acid binding magnetic beads from reservoir were forced into three lobed blister where the beads were mixed gently and allowed to incubate for 5 minutes.

The sample bead mixture was then moved to blister where the magnetic beads were captured via activation of the magnet. Once the magnet was deployed bladders adjacent blister were pressurized to force fluids back to three lobed blister . The captured beads were then washed as described above using the wash solution from reservoirs and . Following washing the beads were once again captured in blister via activation of the magnet and the elution buffer stored in reservoir is moved to blister where after a 2 minute incubation the nucleic acids eluted from the beads are then moved to blister as discussed above.

In blister the nucleic acid sample is mixed with first stage PCR master mix from reservoir . The sample is then held at 40 C. for 10 minutes during which time M MLV converts mRNA to cDNA then 94 C. for 2 minutes to inactivate the M MLV and remove antibody from taq . Thermal cycling is then 20 cycles of 94 C. for 10 second and 65 C. for 20 seconds.

Subsequent to first stage amplification the sample is diluted approximately 100 fold using the second stage PCR master mix from reservoir . The sample is then moved to blisters which were previously spotted with the second stage primers as discussed above. Second stage PCR buffer was moved from reservoir to negative control blisters and the positive control mixture was moved to blisters from reservoir . The samples were denatured for 30 seconds at 94 C. then amplified for 45 cycles of 94 C. for 5 seconds and 69 C. for 20 seconds.

As can be seen in all target amplicons and the positive control showed amplification while none of the negative controls showed amplification. Each sample was run in replicates. The replicates each showed similar amplification data not shown .

It is understood that the and targets are illustrative only and that other targets are within the scope of this invention.

The above example uses pouch of . Pouch has five negative control blisters five positive control blisters and ten low volume sample blisters . Pouch of increased the number of low volume sample blisters to . However high density array of pouch shown in can have 120 or more second stage wells . This increase in the number of second stage reactions enables a wide set of potential diagnostic and human identification applications without the need to increase the size of the pouch and its instrument. Various examples are described herein.

In one example it is known that standard commercial immunofluorescence assays for the common respiratory viruses can detect seven viruses Adenovirus PIV1 PIV2 PIV3 RSV Influenza A and Influenza B. A more complete panel illustratively would include assays for additional five viruses coronavirus human metapneumovirus BOCAvirus Rhinovirus and non HRV Enterovirus. For highly variable viruses such as Adenovirus or HRV it is desirable to use multiple primers to target all of the branches of the virus lineage illustratively 4 outer and 4 inner primer sets respectively . For other viruses such as coronavirus there are 4 distinct lineages 229E NL63 OC43 HKU1 that do not vary from one season to another but they have diverged sufficiently enough that separate primer sets are required. The illustrative complete respiratory virus panel would also target the SARS coronavirus possibly the avian influenza HA and N subtypes and possibly others. Finally some of the respiratory viruses show such a high rate of sequence variation that it would be beneficial to create more than one nested PCR assay for each such virus thereby minimizing the chance of false negative results due to sequence variation under the primers. When all of the primer sets described herein are included such a respiratory virus panel could have 80 or more specific amplicons in the second stage amplification. The high density array could easily accommodate such a panel in a single pouch .

A second application of the high density array of pouch would be to determine the identity and the antibiotic resistance spectrum of the multi drug resistant bacteria isolated from infected patients. Current methods require several days to culture the organism and empirically test individual drug resistance profiles. During the time it takes to receive the results physicians will often administer broad spectrum antibiotics which leads to an increase in multi drug resistant bacteria. PCR primers have been developed to detect the genetic determinants of antibiotic resistance the antibiotic resistance genes themselves . However because of the large number of variants of some of these genes a large number of amplicons is required for a complete determination of the resistance profile. Hujer et. al. describe a panel of 62 PCR assays to identify the resistance genes present in isolates. Again the high density array could easily accommodate such a panel in a single pouch.

A third example of the utility of the high density array is in the field of human identification illustratively for forensic identification of human remains and for paternity testing. Most of the market in human identification is dominated by systems that analyze short tandem repeat sequences STRs . This analysis has generally required separating the repeats by size using e.g. capillary electrophoresis. The specialized laboratory equipment used for this purpose has generally not been field portable. There is growing interest in using Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms SNPs for identity testing as there are a large set of techniques for identifying SNPs and some of these are amenable to field use. Sanchez et al. have published a set of 52 well characterized SNPs that collectively give a very low probability of matching two individuals by chance a mean match probability of at least 5.0 10 . In practice it may take two amplicons for each SNP to accurately type each locus see e.g. Zhou et al. . Thus one pouch with 104 second stage wells could completely type an individual at all of the 52 SNP loci.

It is understood that there are cost and workflow advantages gained by combining assays from different diagnostic applications into one pouch. For example the complete respiratory virus panel could be combined with the bacterial identification panel. These combinations could simplify manufacturing since there are fewer types of pouches to assemble. They could also simplify the work of the end user as there are fewer specific types of pouches that need to be stocked in a clinic and also reducing the chance of using the wrong pouch for a particular clinical sample. For some applications these advantages could offset an increase cost of manufacturing the pouch having a greater number of primer pairs. Thus one pouch with 100 or more second stage wells could be used to accommodate multiple panels of assays.

Controls for highly multiplexed assays can be problematic especially in clinical diagnostic settings where quality must compete with cost per test. The high density array of pouch potentially increases this problem because of the increased number of diagnostic targets that can be assayed in a single run. Various types of controls are discussed herein.

Illustrative process controls include mixing an intact organism for example an organism containing an RNA target into the patient sample before injecting the sample into the pouch. Such a target could be an intact RNA bacteriophage MS2 or Q or an intact plant RNA virus Tobacco Mosaic Virus or an mRNA present in an intact yeast. Outer primers specific for the RNA target would be present in the first stage PCR and a well containing the inner primers would be present in the high density array. Detection of amplification product in this well confirms that all of the steps of the process are working correctly. A post second stage amplification melt curve could also be used to verify that the correct specific product was made. The crossing point Cp determined from an amplification curve could be used to give a quantitative measure of the integrity of the reagents. For example the Cp can be compared to that of other pouches from the same lot run at a different time. While an intact organism is used it is understood that purified or isolated nucleic acids may be used if it is not important to test for lysis. In other situations it may be desirable to use the control to test only the later steps of the analysis. For example spiking a natural or synthetic nucleic acid template into a well in the high density array along with the cognate primers could be used to test the second stage PCR reaction and spiking a nucleic acid template into the first stage PCR with the appropriate primers in the first stage PCR amplification mixture and in a well of the second stage amplification zone will test both the first and second stage PCR reactions.

Process controls such at described above do not test the integrity of the primers specific to the target amplicons. One example of a positive control that tests the integrity of the specific primers uses a mixture of nucleic acids illustratively synthetic RNAs as stability and variability often can be better controlled and these sequences cannot be present due to environmental contamination wherein the mixture contains a nucleic acid for each of the primers present in the particular pouch. In a diagnostic setting this positive control could be used at the end of a run of pouches used to test patient samples. The mixture is injected into a pouch illustratively from the same lot as those used for the patient samples and success is defined by all of the target amplicons providing a positive result. Negative controls can be done in the same way at the end of a run of pouches used to test patient samples water or buffer could be injected into a pouch and success defined by all of the target amplicons providing a negative result.

Individual workflow and protocols in a diagnostic lab may be used to determine the number of patient sample pouches run before the control pouches described above are run. Regardless of how frequently or infrequently the control pouches are run these controls add to the time and cost of the total system. For this reason it would be useful to make the controls internal to the pouch. The structure of the high density array allows for the following novel approach to negative controls. In this example a nucleic acid illustratively a synthetic amplicon is spiked into one of the wells of the high density array . Primers to amplify this sequence are spiked into this well and into two other wells and spaced across the array. Illustratively the amplicon sequence and primers are artificial and designed so that none of the primers used will amplify another target by chance.

When a clean uncontaminated pouch is run in instrument the well containing the synthetic target will generate amplicon and therefore be called positive. The two other wells that contain the corresponding primers should not amplify anything in the sample and thus be called negative. Pouch may be treated further for additional controls. Illustratively bladder holding the high density array against heater is then depressurized and the contents of the wells are mixed. In one illustrative method the contents of the wells are mixed as follows heater is used to cycle the temperature of the high density array above and below the boiling point of the buffer for a short time for example three cycles of 85 C. for 10 sec then 105 C. for to 20 sec . Bubbles of steam generated in the wells of high density array should force the contents of wells out into the second stage amplification zone blister . Optionally the contents of the second stage amplification zone may be mixed with the contents of rest of the pouch by using the bladders to move liquid from one end of the pouch to the other. The purpose of these steps is to mix the specific contamination control amplicon along with any specific target amplicons throughout the pouch.

If the user accidentally opens a pouch after it has been run in this fashion then both specific target amplicons and the contamination control amplicon will be released. If trace amounts of these nucleic acids contaminate a later pouch run the instrument may detect the contamination event as the wells that contained only the primers specific for the synthetic amplicon will score positive. Software in the instrument will alert the user and the results of the run will be flagged as suspect.

In another method to control contamination at the end of a run a DNA degrading chemical or enzyme may be added to destroy substantially all of the DNA products of the first and second stage PCR reactions. Illustratively this can be done in a way similar to the contamination detection method described above by heating the contents of the second stage array to above the local boiling temperature thus drawing the amplified sample out of the wells of the array mixing the heated liquid with the diluted contents of the 1stage reaction adding an aliquot of a DNA degrading substance illustratively through entry channel either with or without cooling the mixture and allowing the DNA degrading reaction to incubate until substantially all of the DNA produced in the PCR reaction has been destroyed. This can be accomplished using DNAases acids or oxidants as are known in the art.

It is understood that any of the contamination controls described herein may be used independently or in any combination thereof.

In another example the pouches and instruments of the present invention may be used for immuno PCR iPCR . iPCR combines the antibody specificity of ELISA with the sensitivity and multiplex capabilities of PCR. While iPCR has been applied to diagnostics and toxin detection iPCR has not enjoyed widespread commercial application presumably because PCR template contamination issues are severe in an open ELISA format. Because the pouch format of the present invention provides a sealed environment the pouches of the present invention may be well suited for iPCR.

A traditional ELISA detection scheme is shown in labeled ELISA . In 1992 Cantor and colleagues Sano T. et al Science 1992. 258 5079 p. 120 2 herein incorporated by reference described a modification of the basic ELISA technique similar to the Immuno PCR I scheme without capture antibody C Ab in which the enzyme used for generating a specific signal is replaced by a unique DNA fragment indirectly attached to the reporter antibody R through a bi functional binding moiety S such as a streptavidin protein A chimera. The DNA fragment is subsequently detected by PCR. It is known that PCR detection can provide dramatic increases in immuno PCR assay sensitivity over corresponding ELISA assays with improvements to sensitivity commonly 10to 10 fold. Advances in quantitative real time PCR methods have improved the speed and quantification of immuno PCR. Direct coupling of the reporter antibody R Ab with DNA template tags Immuno PCR II scheme has further increased the assay sensitivity 10to 10fold and made possible the development of multiplex immuno PCR assays in which each different antibody is tagged with a different oligonucleotide and thus each antigen is associated with a unique amplification product.

Despite these advantages over traditional ELISAs iPCR has not been widely adopted in commercial products in the 13 years since it was first described. This is due in part to the contamination hazards inherent in any open tube PCR analysis method. Prior art iPCR protocols are derived from ELISA assays and require numerous wash steps that increase the likelihood of contaminating the work area with amplified material. The significant risk of false positives due to workflow contamination has contributed to the avoidance of iPCR in diagnostic assessment.

Amplicon contamination issues slowed the widespread adoption of PCR itself in the diagnosis of human genetic conditions or of infectious disease until homogenous i.e. closed tube PCR assays were developed. By making the readout of the assay possible in a closed tube system spread of amplicon is severely curtailed. Similarly iPCR may be more widely adopted if a closed system format were available. In the present system the sample would be injected into a pouch that would be provided with all required reagents. The steps of antigen capture wash reporter antibody binding wash and subsequent PCR detection could be performed completely within the pouch. Illustratively nucleic acids would never leave the pouch and would be disposed of along with the pouch.

Any of the pouches of the present invention may be adapted for iPCR. For example the pouch of illustratively may be adapted as follows. Chambers through would be filled with the following components. The sample illustratively comprising an unpurified and or unmodified antigen e.g. a toxin is injected through injection port to chamber . A capture antibody conjugated to magnetic beads C Ab is provided in chamber . If multiple targets are to be tested it is understood that multiple capture antibodies having specificity for multiple antigens may be used. An optional pre wash buffer is provided in chamber . A reporter antibody conjugated to an oligonucleotide template R Ab DNA is provided in chamber . It is understood that the capture and reporter antibodies may be monoclonal or polyclonal. When multiple antigens are to be detected the capture and reporter antibodies may contain only polyclonal antibodies only monoclonal antibodies or any combination of polyclonals specific for one antigen and monoclonals specific for another antigen. When a reporter antibody is polyclonal it is understood that all reporter antibodies having specificity for a particular antigen will be coupled to oligonucleotide templates have one specific sequence even if the specificity between various antibodies in that set varies. The oligonucleotide may be double stranded or single stranded. Multiple R Ab DNAs may be provided to detect multiple antigens with each different antibody conjugated to a unique oligonucleotide. Wash buffers are provided in chambers through . A first stage PCR master mix as described above is provided in chamber . A dilution buffer is provided in chamber . A second stage PCR master mix as described above is provided in chamber . As discussed above the reagents may be provided dried in chambers through and may be rehydrated prior to use via injection of water through seal or each reagent may be provided wet via injection to each individual chamber . Combinations thereof are contemplated.

Once the sample and reagents are loaded the pouch is inserted into the instrument . Plunger is then depressed and the sample is moved to three lobed blister . Plunger is also depressed and the capture antibodies conjugated to magnetic beads shown as C in are also moved to three lobed blister . The sample and the C Ab are mixed via pressure from bladder alternating with pressure from bladders . Because mixing is desired pressure from the bladders may be considerably lower than the pressure used as discussed above for lysis. Illustratively gentle mixing is obtained. The sample and the C Ab are allowed to incubate for sufficient time for the capture antibodies to bind to antigens T in the sample forming C Ab T complexes illustratively for about 5 minutes although other incubation times may be desirable. For iPCR it may be desirable to include an additional heater in instrument to maintain incubations at about 37 C.

Once the antigens present in the sample have been sufficiently incubated for capture the sample is moved to blister and the magnet is deployed capturing the capture antibodies in blister . The unbound portions of the sample are then moved back to three lobed blister which now functions as a waste reservoir. While magnetic beads are used to restrain the capture antibodies in the examples described herein it is understood that other capture mechanisms may be used including solid supports possibly even cross linking the capture antibodies to an interior surface of a blister.

If desired the C Ab T complexes may be washed using the pre wash buffer from chamber . Pre wash buffer is moved into blister via channel the magnet is withdrawn releasing the C Ab T complexes and the beads are gently moved between blisters and . The beads are then recaptured in blister via activation of the magnet and the remaining fluid is moved to three lobed blister . It is expected that this pre wash may improve discrimination of a positive signal over the background negative signal but such differences may prove to be insignificant. Additional pre washes may be performed if desired.

Plunger is depressed and the mixture containing one or more reporter antibodies R Ab conjugated to oligonucleotide templates R Ab DNA shown in Immuno PCR II scheme as R with attached nucleic acid is moved to blister . The magnet is retracted and the mixture is gently mixed by moving between blisters and . Incubation illustratively for about 5 minutes although other incubation times may be desirable allows formation of the ternary complexes C Ab T R Ab DNA as illustrated in Immuno PCR II. Activation of the magnet allows capture of the ternary complexes in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to three lobed blister .

Plunger is depressed and wash buffer is moved from chamber to blister . The magnetic bead ternary complex is washed as in the pre wash described above the magnetic bead ternary complex is recaptured in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to three lobed blister . Washing is repeated multiple times using the wash buffers from chambers and except that mixing is between blisters and to avoid reintroducing unbound R Ab DNA complexes that may be residing in blister or channel . While four washes are described in this illustrative embodiment it is understood that any number of washes may be used illustratively by altering the number of chambers in the fitment or by increasing the volume of the chambers and using only a portion of the wash buffer in a chamber for each wash. It is also understood that removal of all unbound R Ab DNA complexes is extremely difficult even with a large number of washes. Further for an antigen that is not present in the sample the presence of just a few molecules of unbound R Ab DNA or non specifically bound R Ab DNA complexes specific for that antigen may result in an amplification signal. Thus while the ideal goal of the washing step is to remove all R Ab DNA complexes specific for antigens that are not present in the sample one illustrative goal is to remove a sufficient number of such R Ab DNA complexes such that the amplification curve for that oligonucleotide is delayed and can be distinguished from the amplification curve of a positive sample. Illustratively more washes should remove more unbound R Ab DNA and provide for a lower detection limit but more washes risk loss of desired ternary complexes through dissociation or loss of magnetic beads not captured by the magnet. After washing is complete if desired the captured ternary complex may be heated or enzymatically treated illustratively with papain proteinase K or other suitable enzyme provided via an additional chamber to release the DNA prior to PCR. Such treatment may improve the first stage PCR efficiency. It is understood that such treatment may be used with any of the iPCR examples discussed herein.

Once washing is complete plunger is depressed and the first stage PCR master mix as described above is moved to blister . First stage PCR master mix contains primer pairs for all desired targets. The magnet is released and optional mixing between blisters and may be used to resuspend the ternary complexes. The mixture is moved to blister where first stage thermal cycling takes place as described above. Once the complexed oligonucleotides have been amplified to sufficient levels as discussed above the amplified mixture is optionally diluted using the dilution buffer provided in chamber . Some or all of the first stage amplified mixture may be mixed with the second stage PCR master mix provided from chamber and then this mixture is moved to the 18 second stage blisters where second stage primers are provided as discussed above. If desired one of the second stage blisters may be used for a negative control wherein it is known that no antigen is present in the sample but R Ab DNA was provided from chamber and the proper primers are provided in the negative control second stage blister . It is expected that despite various washes small amounts of this particular R Ab DNA may be present in the first stage PCR and accordingly that small amounts of the first stage amplified product may be provided to this second stage blister . However the amounts should be quite small and the crossing point should be delayed well past that of positive samples. Also if desired one of one of the second stage blisters may be used for a positive control wherein the sample is spiked with an antigen that is not otherwise being tested perhaps included with the C Ab beads which presumably will bind its corresponding R Ab DNA and which is then amplified in the first stage PCR. Finally control blisters are not used in this illustrative embodiment. However with a minor reconfiguration blisters may be connected to blister and may provide for six additional second stage reactions. Alternatively blisters may be used for other controls as are desired by the particular application.

As discussed above because of the difficulty in removing all unbound or non specifically bound R Ab DNA complexes even negative samples may show some amplification. It is expected that real time amplification analysis will allow positives to be distinguished from negatives via a difference in cycle number of a threshold crossing point or an equivalent cycle threshold measurement such as the cycle number when 50 of amplification is reached .

It is understood that the first stage multiplex amplification may not be necessary for detection with iPCR even when testing for multiple antigens. However the first stage multiplex amplification may afford more sensitivity.

The above example illustrates a method adapting the pouch of for iPCR. However shows a pouch that is illustratively configured for iPCR. Fitment is similar to fitments and except having 15 chambers and plungers . Each chamber illustratively chamber where the sample is injected may have its own injection port or several chambers may have a connecting channel and may share an injection port illustratively through each containing wash buffer . As with the above described fitments any combination of injection ports and channels is within the scope of this invention. Pouch differs from pouch of in one primary way. As cell lysis is usually not needed in iPCR the three lobed blister may be replaced by a single large waste reservoir . Because multiple washes are desirable in iPCR waste reservoir is provided with a sufficiently large volume to retain the multiple used buffers for example 2 5 ml depending on the application and volume of the reactions. It is understood that instrument may need to be reconfigured somewhat to accommodate pouch .

Prior to insertion into the instrument pouch of illustratively would have the following components in the chambers . The sample to be tested would be injected into chamber . Capture antibodies C Ab conjugated to magnetic beads are provided in chamber . An optional pre wash buffer is provided in chamber . Reporter antibodies conjugated to their respective oligonucleotide templates R Ab DNA are provided in chamber . As discussed above multiple R Ab DNAs may be provided to detect multiple antigens with each different antibody conjugated to a unique oligonucleotide. Wash buffers are provided in chambers through . A first stage PCR master mix is provided in chamber . A dilution buffer is provided in chambers and . A second stage PCR master mix is provided in chamber

To begin plungers and are depressed forcing the sample and the capture antibodies C Ab through channel into blister . The sample and the C Ab are gently mixed illustratively by moving between blisters and via channel and are incubated as described above. After a sufficient period of time for formation of the C Ab T complex the mixture is moved to blister via channel where a magnet housed in the instrument is deployed capturing the complexed beads therein. The remaining fluid is moved to waste reservoir via channel . Optionally pre wash buffer from chamber is moved to blister via channel the magnet is withdrawn and the magnetic beads are gently washed by moving the fluid between blisters and . The magnet is again deployed and the beads are again captured in blister .

Next plunger is depressed moving the reporter antibodies conjugated to nucleic acid template R Ab DNA to blister the magnet is withdrawn and the C Ab T and the R Ab DNA are gently mixed illustratively by moving between blisters and via channel and are incubated as described above. After formation of the ternary complex C Ab T R Ab DNA the magnet is once again deployed capturing the ternary complex in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to waste blister .

The ternary complex is then washed using the wash buffer from chamber as described above for the pre wash. The magnet is again deployed capturing the ternary complex in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to waste blister . Washing is repeated various times using the wash buffer from chambers through . Thus in the illustrative embodiment of seven washes are completed. However as discussed above more or fewer washes may be desirable depending on the particular application.

As illustrated in the Immuno PCR II scheme shown in the reporter antibody is conjugated directly to the nucleic acid template. It is understood that the reporter antibody in any of the embodiments discussed herein could be attached to the nucleic acid template by any of a variety of ways including direct and indirect covalent and non covalent bonding. Also the reporter antibody could be attached to the nucleic acid through a variety of mechanisms including for example through the use of secondary antibodies as illustrated in the Immuno PCR I scheme of . If secondary antibodies or other indirect coupling mechanisms are used it may be desirable to add additional ports and further washing steps.

The first stage PCR master mix as described above is then deployed to blister via activation of plunger and the magnet is once again withdrawn. If gentle mixing is desired the fluid may be moved between blisters and via channel . While mixing can take place between blisters and as before in the illustrative embodiment mixing takes place between blisters and . This aids in reducing the reintroduction of unbound reporter antibody complexes that may be residing in blister . The sample is then moved to blister . A bladder positioned over is gently pressurized to move blister into contact with a heating cooling device such as a Peltier device and the sample would be thermocycled as discussed above for first stage PCR. As discussed above in the previous example first stage PCR may be unnecessary with the presently described iPCR blister and its associated heater may be omitted and all washes illustratively could take place by mixing between blisters and . If first stage PCR is omitted the dilution as discussed below may also be omitted.

Most of the amplified sample is moved to waste blister leaving some amplified sample behind in blister to be diluted. It is understood that if space constraints or other considerations limit the size of blister blisters and may be used to contain the remaining waste. The small amount of remaining amplified sample is mixed with dilution buffer from chamber which has been moved to blister via channel . The sample and the dilution buffer may be mixed gently between blisters and via channel . If further dilution is desired dilution may be repeated using the dilution buffer from chamber . Finally some of the diluted sample is moved to waste reservoir and the remaining diluted sample is mixed with second stage PCR master mix from chamber . After mixing the sample is moved to the various low volume second stage blisters where second stage primers are provided as discussed above. In the present configuration blister may be used for a negative control and blister may be used for a positive control as discussed above in the previous iPCR example. Second stage PCR and analysis takes place as described above in the previous iPCR example.

In some circumstances it may be desirable to test for antigens and nucleic acids in one reaction set. For example a terrorist attack may employ various agents to kill multiple people. In responding to the attack it may be unknown if the causative agent is a virus bacterium or other organism or if the causative agent is a toxin. The closed environment system of the pouches of the present invention is well suited for such use. In the embodiment disclosed herein both PCR and iPCR may take place within a single pouch allowing for simultaneous detection of various biological and antigenic agents.

In the illustrative embodiment the chambers would be loaded as follows. iPCR wash buffer would be provided in chambers through and . The sample to be tested would be injected into chamber . The capture antibodies C Ab conjugated to magnetic beads are provided in chamber . An optional pre wash buffer is provided in chamber . Reporter antibodies conjugated to their respective oligonucleotide template R Ab DNA are provided in chamber . A cell lysis buffer is provided in chamber . Nucleic acid binding magnetic beads are provided in chamber . Nucleic acid wash buffers are provided in chambers and . A nucleic acid elution buffer is provided in chamber . A first stage PCR master mix is provided in chamber . A dilution buffer is provided in chambers and . A second stage PCR master mix is provided in chamber . Controls as discussed above with respect to are provided in chamber . It is understood that this arrangement is illustrative and that other configurations are possible. Also as with the other examples discussed above one or more of these components may be provided dried in one or more of the blisters of pouch .

Once the sample is loaded into chamber and pouch is loaded into the instrument plungers and are depressed moving the sample and C Ab through channel to blister . The sample and capture antibodies may be mixed by gently moving them between blisters and and then incubated as described above to encourage formation of C Ab T complexes. The sample is moved to blister and magnet is activated capturing the C Ab T complexes therein. Thus toxins or other targeted antigens are now captured in blister . It is noted that in the illustrative embodiment the surface of the magnetic bead portion of the magnetic beads coupled to the capture antibodies is different from the surface of the nucleic acid binding magnetic beads and the magnetic beads coupled to the capture antibodies is illustratively configured not to bind nucleic acids. The remaining fluid is then moved to three lobed blister via channel . This fluid can then be processed and assayed for the presence of target nucleic acids. This division of the sample may be problematic if a targeted antigen is a surface antigen of an organism targeted in the PCR detection. In such a situation it may be desirable to choose between antigen detection and nucleic acid detection for that organism or to use separate pouches for PCR and iPCR. Alternatively the sample may be lysed prior to antibody capture. If lysis would interfere with antibody capture for example by changing the conformation of the antigen then the sample may be divided and just a portion of the sample may be lysed prior to antibody capture. If a pre wash of the C Ab T is desired plunger is activated and the pre wash buffer from chamber is moved into blister . Magnet is withdrawn the fluid is mixed between blisters and and magnet is once again deployed capturing the C Ab T complex in blister . The wash buffer now possibly containing cells that had been left behind after capture is moved to three lobed blister along with the rest of the uncaptured material.

It is understood that the sample is now divided into two parts for separate processing. Antigens present in the sample are now captured in C Ab T complexes in blister while cells viruses and free nucleic acids present in the sample are now in three lobed blister awaiting lysis. The two portions of the sample are processed separately until both are ready for first stage PCR. These processes may take place in any order or simultaneously. However in the present embodiment cell lysis must take place prior to substantial processing of the C Ab T complexes so that three lobed blister may then function as the waste reservoir. If a separate waste reservoir is used cell lysis can be delayed until after the C Ab T complexes have been processed if desired.

Lysis buffer from chamber is moved into three lobed blister via channel . Bladders adjacent the blisters of three lobed blister are pressurized as described above with respect to driving high velocity collisions shearing the sample and liberating nucleic acids. Once the cells have been adequately lysed plunger is activated and nucleic acid binding magnetic beads stored in chamber are injected via channel into three lobed blister . The sample is mixed with the magnetic beads and the mixture is allowed to incubate. The processing then continues as described above with respect to the pouch of . The mixture of sample and beads are forced through channel into blister then through channel and into blister where a retractable magnet captures the magnetic beads from the solution. The un captured liquid is then forced out of blister and back through blister and into blister which is now used as a waste receptacle. Plunger may be activated to provide a wash solution to blister via channel and then to blister via channel . Magnet is retracted and the magnetic beads are washed by moving the beads back and forth from blisters and . Once the magnetic beads are washed the magnetic beads are recaptured in blister by activation of magnet and the wash solution is then moved to blister . This process may be repeated using wash reagents in chambers . However it is understood that more or fewer washes are within the scope of this invention. After washing elution buffer stored in chamber is moved via channel to blister and the magnet is retracted. The solution is cycled between blisters and via channel breaking up the pellet of magnetic beads in blister and allowing the captured nucleic acids to come into solution. The magnet is once again activated capturing the magnetic beads in blister and the eluted nucleic acid solution is moved into blister .

Returning back to blister the C Ab T complexes are therein captured. Plunger is depressed and the reporter antibodies conjugated to nucleic acid template R Ab DNA are introduced to blister the magnet is withdrawn and the C Ab T and the R Ab DNA are gently mixed illustratively by moving between blisters and via channel and are incubated as described above. After formation of the ternary complex C Ab T R Ab DNA magnet is once again deployed capturing the ternary complex in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to blister which is now used as a waste reservoir.

The ternary complex is then washed using the wash buffer from chamber as described above for the pre wash. Magnet is again deployed capturing the ternary complex in blister and the remaining fluid is moved to blister . Additional wash buffer from chamber is injected into blister via channel the magnet is withdrawn and the ternary complex is resuspended by mixing the fluids blisters and . The fluids are then moved to blister via channel and the ternary complex is captured therein via activation of magnet . The waste fluids are then moved back through blisters and to blister . Additional wash buffer is introduced into blister from chamber and washing is repeated by mixing between blisters and . Washing is repeated various times using the wash buffer from chambers through . Thus in the illustrative embodiment of six washes are completed. However as discussed above more or fewer washes may be desirable depending on the particular application. It is understood that blisters and are used to minimize contamination from prior washes. If desired blisters and may be omitted and the wash buffers contained in chambers through may be provided directly to either blister or with mixing between blisters and .

The washed antibody ternary complex is now captured in blister and the eluted nucleic acids are now in blister . It is noted that the antibody ternary complex and the eluted nucleic acids may be processed through PCR in independent reactions through to separate sets of second stage PCR blisters. However in the present embodiment the antibody ternary complex and the eluted nucleic acids are combined for PCR analysis. First stage PCR master mix containing all first stage primers is injected from chamber into blister . The nucleic acid sample is then mixed between blisters and via channel . If first stage PCR is desired for the iPCR components the nucleic acid sample is then moved to blister magnet is withdrawn and the re united sample is illustratively mixed between blisters and . The sample is then moved to blister where the sample is thermocycled as discussed above. Next the amplified sample may be diluted once or several times using the dilution buffers from chambers and . Prior to each dilution a large portion of the amplified sample is removed from blister via either channel or channel . With each addition of dilution buffer the sample is mixed between blisters and via channel . After dilution all or a portion of the sample is mixed with the second stage PCR master mix from chamber as described in the examples above.

The sample is then moved from blister via channel to blisters in second stage amplification zone . Blisters each had been previously provided with a primer pair some of the primer pairs specific for target nucleic acids while other primer pairs specific for an oligonucleotide conjugated to a reporter antibody. If desired two blisters may be dedicated to iPCR controls as discussed above. Blisters may be used for PCR controls as discussed above with respect to blisters of . While 18 blisters are shown it is understood that any number of blisters may be used. Second stage PCR amplification proceeds as discussed above with respect to . It is understood that PCR analysis may use amplification curves melting curves or a combination thereof while iPCR analysis may use crossing thresholds as discussed above. Other methods of analysis are within the scope of this invention.

While references are made herein to PCR and iPCR it is understood that the devices and methods disclosed herein may be suitable for use with other nucleic acid amplification or other biological processing methods as are known in the art particularly methods that benefit from a first stage multiplex reaction and a second stage individual reaction. Illustrative non limiting second stage reactions include primer extension including allele specific primer extension extension terminations including termination by incorporation of one or more dideoxy nucleotides incorporation of fluorescent or non fluorescent labels and other enzymatic reactions requiring a change in reaction mixture components or component ratios such as asymmetric PCR allele specific PCR invader assays and other isothermal amplification or detection chemistries.

Although the invention has been described in detail with reference to preferred embodiments variations and modifications exist within the scope and spirit of the invention as described and defined in the following claims.

