---

title: Enabling synchronization with a difference unaware data source
abstract: A system and a method are disclosed for updating a master data list with data from a difference unaware information repository and a difference aware information repository. A master synchronization engine may synchronize to the difference unaware information repository and the difference aware information repository via connectors coupled to each information repository. The difference unaware information repository exports all the data stored within the repository to its respective connector. The connector determines the changes made to the data since the last synchronization and the changes are forwarded to the master synchronization engine. The difference aware information repository is capable of determining the changes made to the stored data since the last synchronization and forwards the changes to its connector. Each connector forwards the changes to the data in their respective information repositories to a database which updates the master data list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298762&OS=09298762&RS=09298762
owner: Plaxo, Inc.
number: 09298762
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131125
---
This is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 174 851 filed Jul. 1 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 7 996 357 filed Feb. 29 2008 the disclosure of each is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of personal information management and more specifically to synchronizing and updating personal information such as contact and address information between multiple interfaces connected to a network.

Maintenance of up to date contact information between friends family business associates clients and customers has always been a challenging and a difficult task to manage. More frequently than expected people change at least some of their contact information such as phone numbers fax numbers mobile phone numbers electronic mail addresses physical addresses and the like. As one example presently approximately 35 of Internet users change electronic mail addresses annually approximately 33 of mobile phone numbers are changed annually and approximately 40 million physical addresses change every year.

Maintenance of up to date contact information between friends family business associates clients and customers has always been a challenging and a difficult task to manage. More frequently than expected people change at least some of their contact information such as phone numbers fax numbers mobile phone numbers electronic mail addresses physical addresses and the like. As one example presently approximately 35 of Internet users change electronic mail addresses annually approximately 33 of mobile phone numbers are changed annually and approximately 40 million physical addresses change every year. Out of date contact information leads to personal losses such as friendships and business losses such as missed opportunities that could increase productivity and revenue. For example inaccurate and low quality customer data results in bad mailings and staff overhead costing upwards of 600 billion a year to U.S. businesses.

To help manage this large amount of contact related data a number of personal information manager PIM applications have evolved e.g. Microsoft Outlook Eudora Pro and the like for a variety of devices e.g. personal computers PC personal digital assistants PDA smart phones and mobile telephones. Nevertheless users continue to be challenged with respect to maintaining consistency or separation of information as the number interfaces on which such information resides increases.

Many times contact related data or contact information is also stored in web mail services such as Google GMail or Yahoo Mail in addition to PIM applications. With contact information stored in multiple locations maintenance of the contact information has become even more difficult. In conventional systems synchronization occurs between the two applications to create one master list of contact information storing the updated contact information.

In conventional synchronization systems each application exports the contact information and the information is used to update the master list of contact information. A drawback with conventional synchronization systems is that an accurate list of contact information is generally not maintained. In conventional synchronization systems importing data into the master list of contact information merely adds contact information to the master list resulting in duplicate contact information as many conventional applications are difference unaware information repositories which are only capable of exporting the current state of the stored data. Difference unaware information repositories are not able to and have no need to track changes that occur in the contact information. Thus tasks such as importing data from difference unaware information repositories during synchronization does not account for information that was deleted or edited from one of the applications. This results in an inaccurate master list of contact information as the deleted contacts continue to be present in the master list of contact information.

To help resolve problems with conventional applications which are difference unaware information repositories individuals can store contact information in difference aware e.g. delta aware or full access applications. Difference aware applications such as Microsoft Outlook Yahoo Mail AOL Address Book and Microsoft Windows Live Contacts are able to keep record of the changes made to information stored within the application so that only these changes are accounted for during synchronization. Issues in maintaining accurate contact information arise when users store contact information in both difference aware applications and difference unaware information repositories. Even these difference aware applications have limitations with respect tracking changes in contact information that is retrieved from convention repositories that simply export data. The difference aware applications receive all the contact information stored in the difference unaware repositories during synchronization to update its contact information and are not capable of determining the changes made to the contact information in the difference unaware information repository. Thus the problem of maintaining an accurate contact information list still is present as contact information is not correctly updated during synchronization of a difference aware application and a difference unaware information repository.

Hence the present state of the art lacks inter alia a system and process to synchronize information with information repositories that are only difference unaware.

One embodiment of a disclosed system is for synchronization with difference unaware information repositories to update a master list of contact information. The method allows difference unaware information repositories which are only capable of exporting the current state of stored contact information to appear to function as difference aware information repositories which are capable of internally tracking changes made to stored contact information. Tracking changes of contact information stored in difference unaware information repositories is beneficial because very few applications which store contact information are difference aware information repositories. Therefore by tracking only the changes that occur in difference unaware information repositories the need to develop additional difference aware information repositories is alleviated as difference unaware information repositories can appear to functionally behave as difference aware information repositories utilizing the disclosed system and process.

Additionally many users store contact information in various applications which can be difference unaware and difference aware information repositories. The ability to track changes in contact information stored in both types of information repositories provides the most accurate contact information when synchronization occurs to update the master list of contact information.

In one embodiment a master synchronization engine conducts the process of updating the master list of contact information stored in a master contact information database. The master synchronization engine synchronizes with a first synchronization connector that is coupled to a difference aware information repository and synchronizes with a second synchronization connector that is coupled to a difference unaware information repository. The master synchronization engine requests changes in stored contact information from both the difference aware information repository and the difference unaware information repository via their respective connector. The difference unaware information repository exports the current state of the stored contact information to the second synchronization connector. The second synchronization connector determines changes from the received contact information compared to the last e.g. previous export of contact information. These determined changes are exported to the master synchronization engine.

The difference aware information repository exports the tracked changes that occurred in the stored contact information to the first synchronization connector which forwards the tracked changes to the master synchronization engine. The master synchronization engine maps the changes from both the difference aware and difference unaware information repositories to the appropriate form fields in the master contact information database to update the master contact information list. The master contact information list is saved and provides the user with the most accurate list of contact information. Moreover this master contact information list can be used to update repositories such as the difference aware information repository.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. It is noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Referring now to there is shown an embodiment of a network environment. For ease of discussion the technology described is in the context of a contact database configuration. However the principles described herein are applicable for other similar database applications. The network environment comprises a network a client device a master synchronization engine a master contact information database a difference aware personal information manager a difference unaware personal information manager a difference unaware synchronization connector and a difference aware synchronization connector .

A client can connect to the various elements in the networking environment via a network which is typically the internet but can also be any network including but not limited to any combination of a LAN a MAN a WAN a mobile wired or wireless network a private network or a virtual private network. While only a single client is shown it is understood that very large numbers e.g. millions of clients are supported and can be in communication with the networking environment at any time. The client may include a variety of different computing devices. Examples of client devices are personal computers digital assistants personal digital assistants cellular phones mobile phones smart phones or laptop computers. As will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art the present disclosure is not limited to the devices listed above. For purposes of convenience and description of one embodiment the users of client will be referred to as a user or users. 

The client may include a browser application that allows users to access web pages associated with difference aware information repositories and difference unaware information repositories on the World Wide Web to access contact information stored in these repositories. Suitable browser applications are Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari or any application adapted to allow access to web pages on the World Wide Web. In the context of the present disclosure for ease of description difference aware information repositories and difference unaware information repositories will be referred to as respectively a difference aware personal information manager and difference unaware personal information manager .

Difference aware personal information manager and difference unaware personal information manager are used to store contact information of various people. Generally the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware information manager at a basic level function as a first and second database to store contact information for a user. The user accesses these managers to add delete or edit contact information of people in order to keep an up to date record of the contact information. Keeping an up to date record of contact information allows users to easily contact friends family or business associates when communication is needed. Difference aware personal information managers are capable of determining changes to the stored contact information within. The difference aware personal information manager records or tracks contact information that has been added deleted or modified since a certain point in time. For example if the user adds a new contact Joe or deletes contact Mary or adds a phone number for contact John the difference aware personal information manager tracks these changes. An example web site for implementation of the difference aware personal information manager is found at www.salesforce.com. Microsoft Outlook is an example of an electronic mail e mail application that is representative of the difference aware personal information manager .

The difference aware personal information manager is in communication with a first synchronization connector. Specifically the difference aware personal information manager is in communication with a difference aware synchronization connector . In one embodiment the difference aware personal information manager never initiates communication with the difference aware synchronization connector . In order to establish communication with the difference aware personal information manager the difference aware synchronization connector sends a query to the difference aware personal information manager . The difference aware synchronization connector is responsible for facilitating communication during synchronization between the difference aware personal information manager and the master synchronization engine which is further described below.

Referring to in one embodiment the difference aware synchronization connector comprises an authentication module and a translation module . The authentication module of the difference aware synchronization connector is responsible for authenticating the master synchronization engine during synchronization with the difference aware personal information manager . The authentication module ensures that only the appropriate elements e.g. the master synchronization engine are granted access to the contact information. Authentication may include for example receiving from the master synchronization engine the correct user name and password to access the contact information stored in the difference aware personal information manager . Various other authentication mechanisms can be used that are known in the art for example anonymous security token PIN fingerprint retinal pattern voice recognition browser based authentication Kerberos etc.

The translation module of the difference aware synchronization connector is responsible for translation of the contact information form fields of the difference aware personal information manager to the valid contact information form fields used in the master contact information database . For example in the difference aware personal information manager the form field for a person s home address may be labeled Home Address while the form field for the person s home address in the master database is labeled Residence. The translation module resolves the discrepancies in form field titles during synchronization so that the master synchronization engine is capable of understanding the received contact information. The translation module undergoes an initialization process during the first synchronization with the master synchronization engine to determine the breadth of the valid form fields used in the master contact information database . After the initialization process is completed the translation module is capable of translating the form fields used in the difference aware personal information manager to the valid form fields in the master contact information database . The results of the initialization process are stored and may be used by the translation module during future synchronization with the difference aware personal information manager .

Generally the difference unaware personal information manager is not structured to track changes that are made to the stored contact information. An export only personal information manager is one example of a difference unaware personal information manager which functions as a database e.g. repository and stores contact information. An export only information manager is only capable of exporting the current state of the contact information during one way synchronization with the master synchronization engine . An example website implementation of an export only information manager is at www.linkedin.com. In one embodiment the difference unaware information manager is not structured to track changes that are made to the stored contact information but permits export of contact information and can also import contact information based on user preference or commercial agreements allowing third parties to access the difference unaware information manager . Therefore the difference unaware personal information manager may be capable of receiving information but one way synchronization still may be performed as the user may not want to make any changes to the contact information stored in the difference unaware personal information manager . An example web site for implementation of the difference unaware personal information manager is www.gmail.com.

The difference unaware personal information manager is in communication with a second synchronization connector. Specifically the difference unaware personal information manager is in communication with a difference unaware synchronization connector . In one embodiment the difference unaware personal information manager never initiates communication with the difference unaware synchronization connector . In order to establish communication with the difference unaware personal information manager the difference unaware synchronization connector sends a query to the difference unaware personal information manager . The difference unaware synchronization connector is responsible for facilitating communication between the difference unaware information manager and the master synchronization engine and determining changes that occurred in the contact information since the last export. In one embodiment the difference unaware synchronization connector comprises an authentication module a translation module a delta tracking module and a last export database .

The authentication module and the translation module of the difference unaware synchronization connector perform similar functions described above pertaining to the authentication module and the translation module of the difference aware synchronization connector . The delta tracking module is responsible for receiving requests from the master synchronization engine for updates in the contact information. The delta tracking module also receives the exported contact information from the difference unaware personal information manager and determines the changes made since the last export of contact information. The delta tracking module allows the difference unaware personal information manager to appear to function as the difference aware personal information manager by computing the changes in the contact information from the last e.g. previous export of contact information and the current export of contact information.

The last export database is responsible for storing the received contact information from the difference unaware personal information manager . The contact information from the last e.g. previous export is used by the delta tracking module to determine any changes made in the contact information compared to the contact information from the current export.

Accordingly because contact information is stored in both the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager a master contact information list is created from the compiled contact information from both the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . The master contact information list is a centralized list representing the contact information stored in both the personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . The master contact information database is responsible for storing the master contact information list.

The master synchronization engine is responsible for conducting the process of updating the master contact information list. The master synchronization engine is the only mechanism which is capable of updating the master contact information list stored in the master contact information database . In one embodiment the master synchronization engine comprises a synchronization connector interface a synchronization history module a mapping module and a merge module . The synchronization connector interface allows the master synchronization engine to synchronize with the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager via their respective connectors.

The synchronization history module is responsible for tracking the time and date of the last synchronization with connectors and . Based on an elapsed time since the last synchronization took place the master synchronization engine will request the current contact information from the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . In one embodiment the request can occur at a predetermined time after the last request or synchronization occurred for example one week from the previous request. Any alternative time intervals can be used to generate the request for the contact information which is further described below.

The mapping module is responsible for mapping the received contact information from the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager to the appropriate form fields in the master contact information database to update the master contact information list. The mapping module maps the received contact information to the valid form fields associated with the correct person based on a unique identifier number that associates contact information with the corresponding person.

The merge module is responsible for merging contact information received from the difference aware personal information manager and from the difference unaware personal information manager associated with the same data record. The merge module determines potential duplicates of received contact information from entries in the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager that may be merged to create a single entry. For example the merge module can determine that unique contact information e.g. email address associated with Joe Stevens in the difference aware personal information manager and the unique contact information e.g. email address associated with Joe Stevens in the difference unaware personal information manager are associated with the same person and the received entries from both information managers may be merged when updating the master contact information list. The merge module determines based on predetermined policies or rules how the duplicate contact information will be merged during the update of the master contact information list.

While only a single difference aware personal information manager and a single difference unaware personal information manager is shown it is understood that a plurality of personal information managers are supported and can be in communication with the networking environment at any time. The number of personal information managers present may depend on the number of locations in which a user has stored contact information. Additionally any combination of difference aware personal information managers and difference unaware personal information managers are supported. For example a user can choose to only store contact information in difference unaware personal information managers or in difference aware personal information managers or a combination of the two managers. In the context of the present discussion the description uses only a single difference aware personal information manager and a single difference unaware personal information manager to help ease understanding of its configuration and process.

It is noted that the various modules described may be implemented as part of a computer program product executed as instructions by a process for example on server class computer comprising a CPU memory network interface peripheral interfaces and other well known components. The computers themselves preferably run an open source operating system such as LINUX have generally high performance CPUs 1 G or more of memory and 100 G or more of disk storage. Of course other types of computers can be used and it is expected that as more powerful computers are developed in the future they can be configured in accordance with the teachings here. The functionality implemented by any of the elements can be provided from computer program products that are stored in tangible computer accessible storage mediums e.g. RAM hard disk or optical magnetic media .

The master synchronization engine facilitates the process of updating the master contact information list stored in the master contact information database . The process performed by the master synchronization engine to update the master contact information list is further described below.

Referring now to the master synchronization engine performs the functional stages to update the master contact information list Query synchronization connectors for updates Process updates and Update master contact information list. Each of these steps will now be described in further detail.

At the first stage the master synchronization engine queries the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector for updates in contact information stored in the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . Specifically the synchronization history module first determines when the last synchronization occurred between the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . The synchronization history module tracks the time and date of synchronization with the personal information managers in order to determine when the next synchronization should occur in order to update the master contact information list.

In one embodiment the synchronization history module requests updates from the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector after a predetermined time has elapsed since the last request. For example the synchronization history module may issue requests after one week has elapsed since the last synchronization. Any suitable time interval can be used to determine when synchronization should occur. Alternatively in one embodiment the synchronization time can be dynamic depending on the user whose master contact information list is being updated. Some users may actively update their contact information at the difference aware personal information manager and difference unaware personal information manager on a daily basis so synchronization would occur at a shorter time interval compared to users who only update contact information only once a month. In an alternative embodiment the synchronization time can be dynamic depending on the frequency of changes to contact information stored in one of the personal information managers.

The synchronization history module can determine that a user is actively updating one personal information manager more frequently than the other thus requests for updated contact information would occur at a shorter time interval to the more frequently modified personal information manager. In another alternative embodiment the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager notifies their respective connector that contact information has been added deleted or modified. This notification prompts the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector to request contact information from their respective information managers once authentication which is further described below is complete.

If the synchronization history module determines that the appropriate time criteria has been satisfied a request is sent to the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector for updates from their respective personal information manager. The synchronization connector interface allows the master synchronization engine to synchronize with the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager via their respective connectors. In an alternative embodiment if the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector determines e.g. from the notification of their respective personal information managers the possibility that the contact information in their respective personal information managers has changed the synchronization connectors and sends a request for the stored contact information.

The synchronization connector interface communicates with the authentication module of the difference unaware synchronization connector and the authentication module of the difference aware personal information manager before synchronization can begin. The authentication module and ensures that only the appropriate elements e.g. master synchronization engine are granted access to the contact information. The authentication modules and provide security features that prevent unauthorized access to the personal information managers. Authentication may include for example receiving from the master synchronization engine the correct user name and password to access the contact information stored in the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . As previously discussed above various other authentication mechanisms can be used that are known in the art. Once the master synchronization engine is authorized to access the contact information stored in the personal information managers the master synchronization engine sends the request for the contact information to the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector .

At the second stage the master synchronization engine processes and receives the updates in contact information from the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager after authorization is allowed. Generally after the master synchronization engine has been granted access to the contact information within the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager the difference aware synchronization connector and the difference unaware synchronization connector forwards the request for contact information to their respective personal information manager.

The difference aware personal information manager is capable of determining changes to the stored contact information. The difference aware personal information manager records or tracks contact information that has been added deleted or modified since the last synchronization as is known in the art. These changes may be referred to as deltas e.g. changes or differences between compared fields or values of contact information. Only these deltas are exported to the difference aware synchronization connector in response to the request for the updated contact information. Exporting only the deltas is advantageous as less processing power is needed by the system to update the master contact information list because the entire contact information list does not need to be updated. Updating only the deltas is a more efficient method for updating the master contact information list as fewer changes need to occur in the master contact information list compared to constantly updating the entire list. Only contact information that was added deleted or modified needs to be accounted for. Any contact information that was not edited is ignored during the update.

After the difference aware synchronization connector receives the changes in the contact information or deltas the translation module begins to translate the received contact information into the appropriate format so that the master database will be able to comprehend the contact information. The translation module converts only the form fields associated with the received deltas during the current synchronization with the difference aware personal information manager into the valid form fields used in the master database . For example the difference aware personal synchronization connector may receive a phone number that is stored in the difference aware personal information manager in the form field Business Ph while the corresponding form field in the master contact information database is labeled Work Ph. The translation module identifies the valid form fields used in the master contact information database and converts the form fields from the difference aware personal information manager to the valid form fields used in the master contact information database . The translation module undergoes an initialization process to determine the breadth of the valid form fields in the master database during the first synchronization with the master synchronization engine .

During the first synchronization with the master synchronization engine the translation module queries the master synchronization engine for the list of valid form fields used in the master contact information database . The translation module associates the form fields in the difference aware personal information manager with the corresponding form fields in the master contact information database based on a stored table with common form field titles. The form field table lists all applicable form field titles which are commonly used. For example the difference aware personal information manager uses the form field Home Ph which is associated with the form fields Residence Ph. House Ph or Personal Ph in the form field table. The translation module analyzes the valid form fields in the master database and matches valid form fields across form fields used in the form field table to determine the correct form field titles to associate with the form fields used in the difference aware personal information manager . Once the translation module finishes converting the form fields associated with the received contact information into the valid form fields used in the master contact information database the difference aware synchronization connector forwards the contact information to the master synchronization engine.

Unlike the difference aware personal information manager the difference unaware personal information manager is not capable of determining the deltas e.g. changes made to the contact information since the previous export. The difference unaware personal information manager is only capable of exporting the current state of all the stored contact information during one way synchronization. In one way synchronization the difference unaware personal information manager exports the stored contact information to the difference unaware synchronization connector which determines the changes e.g. deltas or differences made to the contact information e.g. an export only configuration . The process of determining the changes made to the contact information allows the difference unaware personal information manager to appear to function as the difference aware personal information manager . The retrieval of contact information from the difference unaware personal information manager is further described below.

The delta tracking module in the difference unaware synchronization connector is responsible for determining the changes e.g. deltas or differences made to the contact information in the difference unaware personal information manager since the previous export. The delta tracking module allows the difference unaware personal information manager to appear to function as the difference aware personal information manager even though the difference unaware personal information manager is only capable of exporting the contact information. Referring to the delta tracking module determines the changes or deltas through a process that includes Request export of contact information Receive contact information Store contact information Determine differences from current contact information and previous contact information and Export differences.

Referring to in step the delta tracking module in the difference unaware synchronization connector receives the request for contact information from the master synchronization engine . The delta tracking module then forwards the request for contact information to the difference unaware personal information manager .

In step the delta tracking module receives the exported contact information. After the delta tracking module forwards the request from step to the difference unaware information manager the difference unaware personal information manager exports or dumps all the stored contact information to the delta tracking module . As previously discussed above the difference unaware personal information manager is not structured to determine changes made to contact information. Therefore the difference unaware personal information manager simply exports all the stored contact information to the delta tracking module .

In step the delta tracking module stores the received contact information in the last export database . The last export database stores the contact information each time the delta tracking module receives contact information. In one embodiment the contact information from each previous export is stored in the last export database to maintain a record of all the information exported from the difference unaware personal information manager . Maintaining a record of all the information obtained from previous exports provides a history of all the contact information. The history can be used to restore the contact information to a previous state or to access old contact information. In alternative embodiments after the deltas are determined in step which is further described below the contact information from the previous export is purged and only the contact information from the current export is maintained in the last export database . This beneficially frees storage space in the last export database and allows for the usage of smaller memory.

In step the delta tracking module determines the deltas or changes in the contact information from the current export of contact information compared to the previous export of contact information. Determining the deltas allows only changes in the contact information to be exported to the master synchronization engine . Exporting only the deltas is advantageous as less processing power is needed to update the master contact information list because the entire contact information list does not need to be updated. Updating only the deltas is a more efficient method for updating the master contact information list as fewer changes would need to be made to the master contact information list compared to constantly updating the entire list. Only contact information that was added deleted or modified needs to be accounted for. Any contact information that was not edited is ignored during the update. Additionally determining the deltas allows one way synchronization that supports the tracking of edits and or deletions of contact information from the difference unaware personal information manager .

Referring to there is shown a diagram illustrative of one embodiment of the process used to determine the changes or deltas in contact information. In one embodiment the delta tracking module compares the received contact information with the previous contact information in a record by record basis. Each record is associated with a particular contact and contains form fields containing information pertaining to the contact such as their home address business address e mail address home phone number work phone number cellular number etc. The delta tracking module compares each record of the received contact information with the corresponding record from the previous export to determine the changes or deltas made in the contact information.

In column represents the current contact information received in step which is now stored in the last export database . Column represents the contact information stored in the last export database from the last e.g. previous export of contact information. Rows and are representative of the data records from each export. For example referring to row the previous contact information shows that a data record for Joseph lists a phone number while the current contact information illustrates the same phone number from the previous contact information and the addition of an email address Joseph comp.com. The delta tracking module compares the data record in row from the current contact information and the previous contact information to determine the delta or changes that occurred. Column representing the changing in contact information illustrates that an email contact for Joseph was added.

In another example row is an example of data records being added and deleted. Row and column illustrates that in the previous export of contact information the data record contained a phone number for Ryan. Referring now to column the data record from the current export of contact information no longer contains a data record for a phone number for Ryan. Instead a phone number for a new contact Troy has been added. The delta tracking module compares the data records of row from the current contact information and the previous contact information to determine the changes in contact information . Column illustrates that the contact for Ryan was deleted while a phone number for a new contact Troy was added.

Row is representative of contact information being edited since the previous export of contact information. During the previous export the previous contact information contained a company name of Food Mart for the contact Joe. The current contact information now contains the company name Joe s Cafe for the contact Joe. The user modified the company associated with the contact Joe as the contact may have moved to a new company or changed the name of his business. The delta tracking module compares the data records of row from the current contact information and the previous contact information to determine the changes in contact information . Column illustrates that the company name for Joe was updated and the data record associated with the contact Joe now contains the company name Joe s Cafe. 

Row is representative of no changes being made to the contact information associated with the data record of row . The previous contact information and current contact information both contain the same phone number for the contact Katrina. Therefore the delta tracking module determines that no changes or updates were made to the data record of row .

In step once the delta tracking module has completed the determination of all the changes that occurred since the last export of contact information the delta tracking module prepares to export the determined deltas represented in column . As described above in regards to the translation module of the difference aware synchronization connector the translation module of the difference unaware synchronization connector translates the determined changes or deltas in contact information from the previous step into the appropriate format. Translation occurs so that the master database comprehends the contact information. The translation module converts the form fields associated with the determined changes or deltas in contact information into the valid form fields used in the master contact information database . For example the difference unaware personal information manager may store a phone number to the form field Business Ph while the corresponding form field in the master contact information database is labeled Work Ph. The translation module is aware of the valid form fields used in the master database and converts the form fields from the difference unaware personal information manager to the valid form fields used in the master contact information database . The translation module of the difference unaware synchronization connector undergoes an initialization process as previously described above in regards to the translation module of the difference aware synchronization connector to determine the breadth of the valid form fields in the master database during the very first synchronization with the master synchronization engine . Once the translation module finishes converting the form fields associated with the determined changes or deltas in contact information the difference unaware synchronization connector forwards the contact information to the master synchronization engine .

At this stage the master synchronization engine has received all the updates that occurred since the last e.g. previous synchronization with the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . The master synchronization engine can begin to update the master contact information list as further described below.

At the third stage the master synchronization engine begins to update the master contact information list stored in the master contact information database using the merge module . The merge module processes any conflicts that may arise during the merging of contact information from the personal information managers. Conflicts can include handling duplicate data entries and merging contact information associated with the same data record.

The merge module first begins to identify and group duplicate updates in contact information from the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager . Additionally the merge module begins to merge contact information from the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware persona information manager that is associated with the same data record. For example the master synchronization engine may have received a phone number update for the contact Troy from the difference aware personal information manager and may also have received an email update for Troy from the difference unaware personal information manager . In the situation where the changes made to each information manager are not reflected in the other manager the merge module merges or combines the two updates into a single entry which will be used to update the master contact information list.

The merge module is configured to perform the processes described above using policies or rules on how data will be treated in the event of conflict resolution in a merge context. An example configuration for a merge module is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 703 949 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 080 104 entitled Synchronization and Merge Engines by inventors Cameron T. Ring Joseph B. Shear John T. Masonis Ryan A. King and Richard J. Carey and assigned to the same assignee as the present disclosure the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

After the merge module resolves the conflicts previously discussed above the mapping module maps the updated contact information to the appropriate form fields in the master contact information database to update the master contact information list. In one embodiment the mapping module maps each record containing the changes in contact information for a particular contact to the appropriate record in the master contact information database based on the unique identifier associated with the contact. In one embodiment the unique identifier is an email address. Alternatives implementations of the unique identifier may include a unique number identifier e.g. student identification number or employee number . For example the record of Joe Smith is associated with a unique identifier number 100 or jsmith myemail.com. The mapping module identifies the unique identifier associated with the contact information entry and maps the entry to the correct location in the master contact information database to update the master contact information list. In one embodiment the correct location in the master contact information database is associated with the same unique identifier used in master synchronization engine . In an alternative embodiment the unique identifier for each record in the master synchronization engine has an associated but different unique identifier in the master contact information database . In another embodiment each contact information field is assigned the same unique identifier as the contact to associate the contact information with the correct person. Each contact information field is then mapped to the correct contact information field based on the unique identifier. In alternative embodiments the unique identifier can be a variable or any identifier that can be used to associate contact information with a particular person.

After the mapping module maps all the contact information acquired during synchronization with the difference aware personal information manager and the difference unaware personal information manager an update of the master contact information list is complete. A centralized list reflecting all contact information across the difference aware personal information manager and difference unaware personal information manager is reflected in the master contact information list. The master contact information list beneficially provides an accurate list of every contact available to the user and can be used to update the personal information managers if appropriate.

In one embodiment after the master contact information list has been updated the master synchronization engine synchronizes with the difference aware synchronization connector . After synchronization and authentication as previously discussed above is complete the master synchronization engine forwards the updated master contact information list to the difference aware synchronization connector . The difference aware synchronization connector forwards the updated contact information to the difference aware personal information manager . The difference aware personal information manager replaces the contact information with the newly acquired updated master contact information list. In alternative embodiments only the changes or deltas reflected in the difference unaware personal information manager are forwarded to the difference aware personal information manager . The changes or deltas in the difference unaware personal information manager are then incorporated in the difference aware personal information manager .

As previously discussed the difference unaware personal information manager may not be capable of receiving updates from an external source other than the user associated with the difference unaware personal information manager because of commercial agreements or lack of functionality. Therefore the updated contact information list is not reflected in the contact information stored in the difference unaware personal information manager . In alternative embodiments an agreement may be made between a provider of the master contact information database and the provider of the difference unaware contact information manager to allow the provider of master contact information database access to the difference unaware personal information manager via an application programming interface API . The API can be utilized to allow the difference unaware information manager to be updated with the contact information as previously described above in regards to the difference aware personal information manager .

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate that though the disclosure above pertains to determining changes in contact information from a difference unaware information repository the teachings disclosed can be applied to any data retrieved from a difference unaware information repository such as calendar entries. The features described herein beneficially provide a system and method to effectively track changes of data within a difference unaware information repository. Tracking changes of data within the difference unaware information repository provides an efficient method of updating a master contact information list. Updating the master contact information list no longer requires constant updates of the entire list. Only the changes made to the data are accounted for resulting in quicker and much more efficient updates of the master contact information list. Additionally the master contact information list is accurately maintained accounting for every change in the stored data such as edits and or deletions of contact information in the difference unaware information repository.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the disclosure. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for determining changes or deltas in contact information from a difference unaware data repository through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

