---

title: Communications network, computer architecture, computer-implemented method and computer program product for development and management of femtocell-based applications
abstract: In one aspect, the present application is directed to a communications network, a computer architecture, a computer-implemented method, and a computer program product for development and management of femtocell-based applications. In one aspect, the communications network may comprise at least one femtocell; a mobile operator network; and a computer architecture integrated in the mobile operator network, wherein the computer architecture is operable to support development and lifecycle management of at least one femtocell-based application for the at least one femtocell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417849&OS=09417849&RS=09417849
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 09417849
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application claims priority to European Patent Application No. 12 425 191.9 filed Nov. 30 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The description is directed generally to communications networks particularly femtocell based mobile telecommunications networks and in particular to a communications network a computer architecture a computer implemented method and a computer program product for development and management of femtocell based applications.

At present many mobile network operators such as VODAFONE SFR AT T SPRINT VERIZON MOBILE TELESYSTEMS T MOBILE have launched femtocell based applications and or services within their networks. For mobile network operators a femtocell may improve coverage and or capacity in particular indoors. Users may benefit from improved coverage and potentially better voice quality and or battery life.

In telecommunications a femtocell relates to a small low power access point such as a cellular base station substantially designed for use in a small local area particularly indoors such as at home and or in an enterprise. A femtocell may be a subset of a smallcell which requires a specific hardware so that existing WiFi and or DSL routers may not be upgraded to femtocell. A femtocell substantially connects to a mobile operator network via broadband e.g. DSL cable . Femtocells may be sold by a mobile network operator to its residential customers and or enterprise customers hereinafter referred to as users . A femtocell is substantially the size of a residential gateway or smaller and connects to the user s broadband line e.g. DSL cable . Integrated femtocells which may include both a router and a femtocell are also available.

Once plugged in a femtocell may connect to the mobile operator network and provides extra coverage and or capacity. From a user s perspective it is plug and play there is no specific installation and or technical knowledge required so that anyone can install a femtocell in a specific local area such as at home. Usually the user then declares which mobile phone numbers are allowed to connect to the plugged in femtocell. This may be done via a web interface provided by the mobile network operator through the femtocell. When mobile devices operating under at least one of the registered numbers arrive under coverage of the femtocell they switch over from a macrocell to the femtocell automatically. A macrocell is a cell in a mobile operator network that provides radio coverage served by a high power cellular base station which is also referred to as a tower .

Currently available designs may support two to four active user devices such as mobile phones smart phones tablets PCs notebooks etc. in a residential setting and eight to 16 active user devices in enterprise settings for example. A femtocell may allow service providers to extend service coverage indoors and or at the cell edge for example where access would otherwise be limited and or unavailable.

Users and or mobile network operators may benefit from femtocells. Femtocells may provide improved cellular coverage capacity and or applications for homes and or enterprises as well as metropolitan and or rural public spaces. Such applications are referred to as femtocell based applications. Femtocell based applications substantially allow user devices and or network applications to benefit from the cheap and fast data connections and location awareness provided by femtocells. In femtocell based applications a femtocell may act as a portal to in home services and or automation with high bandwidth connected home applications and thereby delivering presence context and or location in such applications. Examples of femtocell based applications may include home security with secure home access virtual home phones virtual fridge notes etc. In a secure home femtocell based application the application might be operable to detect presence of unknown mobile devices to turn on high definition security cameras to alert the user via SMS and or to send automatically send an alert to the policy to create log of user devices etc.

Femtocells may provide offload of Radio Access Network RAN Mobile User may use femtocells as an alternative to the macro radio network because the signal is stronger at their point of use. Femtocells enable a new breed of mobile services that exploits the technology s ability to detect presence connect and or interact with existing networks. Femtocells emit low levels of radio waves also known as Radio Frequency RF electromagnetic fields in use.

In order to speed up service and or application development the Small Cell Forum has published a series of application programming interfaces APIs which address issues related to lack of standardization among femtocells. Femtocell standards for UMTS release 8 LTE release 9 CDMA and or WiMac are developed.

Although different standardization attempts to femtocells exist however no standards exists for supporting developers administrators and or users in efficient easy flexible but standardized techniques for femtocell based application development and or management which may be useful to manage technical issues such as the variety of network topologies femtocells may be designed to interact with the poor presence information provided by many models of femtocells which may be limited to the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or prevents the development of advanced application the management of non standardized femtocells already deployed. In other words no standard way for managing a femtocell based application s whole lifecycle exists.

Hence there is a need to provide systems and methods for standardization of application and or service development for femtocell networks.

According to one general aspect a communications network for development and management of femtocell based applications is provided. The network may comprise at least one femtocell a mobile operator network and a computer architecture integrated in the mobile operator network wherein the computer architecture is operable to support development and lifecycle management of at least one femtocell based application for the at least one femtocell in the mobile operator network.

For example the architecture may extend application programming interface API standardization efforts for femtocells to a standardized femtocell based network environment in particular with regard to standardized femtocell based application development deployment and or management. In other words the architecture supports efficient flexible and or integrated lifecycle management of femtocell based applications and hence provides a standardized way for developing and managing femtocell based applications. The architecture may be implemented around the APIs of femtocells.

Advantageously the architecture may support easy flexible and efficient development and or management of femtocell based applications by standardized processes building blocks and or interfaces provided with the architecture. The architecture may support safe operations based on private data and or filtered access to the Internet. Faster development of femtocell based applications through a service creation environment and or a network layer may be supported. The network layer is operable to hide network complexity integration issues and or the differences among different femtocells. Also easier development of femtocell based applications due to a standardized execution environment and or a standardized application packaging format is supported.

According to an aspect the network may further comprise a developer GUI wherein development of the femtocell based application is supported through the developer graphical user interface GUI interfaced to a creation environment of the architecture by a developer API.

According to another aspect the network may further comprise an administrator GUI wherein lifecycle management of the femtocell based application is supported through the administrator GUI interfaced to an execution environment of the architecture by an administrator API.

According to yet another aspect the mobile operator network may comprise an operator portal and wherein at least one of the APIs is operable to integrate the computer architecture with the operator portal.

According to yet another aspect the architecture may be implemented with its own GUIs and runs as a standalone system within the mobile operator network as a cloud application.

For example the architecture may be deployed as a cloud application into a mobile operator network available to corresponding mobile network operators and or third parties developing femtocell based applications for femtocells wherein the femtocell based applications can be distributed from the third parties to users and or the mobile network operators via the mobile operator network.

According to another general aspect a computer architecture for development and management of femtocell based applications is provided wherein the computer architecture is integrated in a mobile operator network and wherein the computer architecture is operable to support development and lifecycle management of at least one femtocell based application for at least one femtocell in the mobile operator network.

According to an aspect the architecture may comprise a creation environment wherein development of the femtocell based application is supported through a developer GUI interfaced to the creation environment by a developer API.

According to another aspect the architecture may comprise an execution environment wherein lifecycle management of the femtocell based application is supported through an administrator GUI interfaced to the execution environment by an administrator API.

According to yet another aspect at least one of the APIs may be operable to integrate the computer architecture with an operator portal of the mobile operator network.

According to yet another aspect architecture may comprise one or more application APIs wherein the at least one femtocell based application is operable to interact with the execution environment through the application APIs.

According to yet another aspect the architecture may be implemented with its own GUIs and runs as a standalone system within the mobile operator network as a cloud application.

According to another general aspect a computer implemented method for development and management of femtocell based applications is provided. The method may comprise providing a computer architecture and a mobile operator network and integrating the computer architecture in the mobile operator network wherein the computer architecture is operable to support development and lifecycle management of at least one femtocell based application for at least one femtocell in the mobile operator network.

According to an aspect development of the femtocell based application may be supported through a developer GUI interfaced to a creation environment of the architecture by a developer API.

According to another aspect lifecycle management of the femtocell based application may be supported through an administrator GUI interfaced to an execution environment of the architecture by an administrator API.

In another general aspect there is provided a computer program product comprising computer readable instructions which when loaded and run in a computer system and or computer network system cause the computer system and or the computer network system to perform a method as described.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as a method or as a system or using computer program products tangibly embodied in information carriers such as a CD ROM a DVD ROM a semiconductor memory signal and or data stream and a hard disk. Such computer program products may cause a data processing apparatus to conduct one or more operations described in this specification.

In addition the subject matter described in this specification can also be implemented as a system including a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may encode one or more programs that cause the processor to perform one or more of the method acts described in this specification. Further the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented using various MRI machines.

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying exemplary drawings and exemplary description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

In the following a detailed description of examples will be given with reference to the drawings. It should be understood that various modifications to the examples may be made. In particular elements of one example may be combined and used in other examples to form new examples.

Within a local area at least one user may connect through a user device to a femtocell . Examples of user devices may include mobile phones smart phones PCs notebooks tablets etc. The femtocell access point provides greater network functionality e.g. radio resource control function than found in macrocell base stations e.g. . The femtocell therefore enables greater autonomy including self configuration and or self optimization. The femtocell is connected to the network operator s towers using broadband IP such as a broadband router e.g. DSL a cable modem WiFi . In other words the femtocell requires a specific hardware so that existing WiFi and or DSL routers may not be upgraded to a femtocell . Femtocells may be sold by a mobile network operator to users. Integrated femtocells which may include both a broadband router and a femtocell may be also used.

Once plugged in into a local area of a network the femtocell may connect to the mobile operator network and provides extra coverage and or capacity. From a user s perspective it is plug and play there is no specific installation and or technical knowledge required so that anyone can install a femtocell in a specific local area . The femtocell may comprise a web interface not shown provided by the mobile network operator of the mobile operator network . The web interface may support registration of phone numbers to the femtocell access to and or deployment of femtocell based applications provided by the mobile network operator for example.

Several femtocell based applications which may be provided by a mobile network operator and or by a third party offering applications to a mobile network operator are available. Example femtocell based applications may comprise personalized content pushing device management virtual home number management and or smart home services such as a home security virtual fridge notes virtual home phones. Femtocell based applications may be provided through a web interface of a femtocell interacting with one ore more user devices of the user.

Within personalized content pushing for example each time a user operating a registered user device enters his home specific content is pushed according to the user s profile and or preferences specified in the corresponding femtocell based application. Eventually the user may be directed to the online store to buy premium content. Examples may comprise TV guide and recommendation news horoscope and or personal reminders. For example a user may access a web portal through a registered user device in order to select and or edit data that the user wishes to receive when arrived at home and or the user may receive data which redirects to online stores for example.

Within a device management femtocell based application a user may configure configuration profiles for his user devices which are automatically enabled depending on the user s location. The user may configure his own settings for each femtocell he is registered to wherein each time the user may enter a specific femtocell e.g. home office theatre a device manager application may configure the user device according to the user settings such as ringtone sound volume themes APN proxy bookmarks predefined home page etc. Further services e.g. automatic synchronization of contact lists when entering calendars and or backup of multimedia may be also supported by such a femtocell based application.

Within a virtual home number femtocell based application based on the user location the femtocell based application calls to a registered user device to be routed following user s preferences. For example calls to the user s mobile phone when the user is at home can be automatically redirected to the user s landline. In another example calls to the user s landline when the user is not at home may be redirected to his mobile phone and or to a voicemail service .

Within a smart home femtocell based application the application may support for example automatically turning off all the lights when nobody is at home a family locator and or family alerts mobile device remote control.

Femtocell based applications may reside in a user device registered with a femtocell on the femtocell s access point on a local LAN in the mobile operator network including a femtocell gateway an application server an application cloud and or the Internet.

The architecture may extend application programming interface API standardization efforts for femtocells to a standardized femtocell based network environment in particular with regard to standardized femtocell based application development deployment and or management. In other words the architecture supports efficient flexible and or integrated lifecycle management of femtocell based applications and hence provides a standardized way for developing and managing femtocell based applications . The architecture may be implemented around the APIs of femtocells .

In one implementation the architecture may be implemented around the APIs of femtocells basically by means of a chain of one or more wrappers decoupling an actually implemented femtocell from a standard femtocell for example according to standards specified by the small cell forum. In one example the architecture may support the following chain of wrapper based translations 

A developer of a femtocell based application may call a program function e.g. in a function call in any programming language. The program function is specified by the small cell forum API specification so that the developer needs not to care about details of the femtocell and or the network topology.

In order to notify the mobile operator network about the application action a runtime library ies linked to the femtocell based application are operable to translate the function call in one or more web service calls which can be managed by a runtime environment . The web service calls may compliant with the small cell forum API specifications for standard femtocells.

The runtime environment is operable to leverage programming logics of the actually implemented femtocell and or the topology of the mobile operator network in order to translate the standard API of the femtocell into a femtocell specific API which may or may not comply with the small cell forum standard.

The above described translation may be also valid in the reverse direction for example when a femtocell notifies a femtocell based application about an event that occurred such as a registered user device entering under coverage of the femtocell . In this case the following wrapper based translations may be performed 

The femtocell notifies the runtime environment for example directly and or via the mobile operator network.

The runtime environment translates the notification based on the standard API for the femtocell as specified by the small cell forum and notifies the runtime library .

The runtime library calls a developer function referred to as a callback function wherein the callback function call is compliant with a standard small cell forum API and the femtocell based application may then take the required action resulting from the user device entering under coverage of the femtocell .

Data and or information which can be provided and or supported by a femtocell may be provided through the standard APIs for femtocells as specified by small cell forum. Said data and or information may comprise 

Presence information when a registered user device enters leaves and or is present within the coverage of a femtocell .

Capability information what throughput the femtocell can support and or which user device can use the throughput for example.

Secure remote access the ability to connect remotely to a local area of a network from a user device.

To deliver this information to femtocell based applications APIs may be present in the handset from the femtocell access point and or from the femtocell gateway. Femtocell based applications may use said information and or data set to deliver a wide range of services to user devices.

Preferably the architecture may be deployed as a cloud application into a mobile operator network available to corresponding mobile network operators and or third parties developing femtocell based applications for femtocells wherein the femtocell based applications can be distributed from the third parties to users and or the mobile network operators via the mobile operator network .

The architecture may support easy flexible and efficient development and or management of femtocell based applications by standardized processes building blocks and or interfaces provided with the architecture . The architecture may support safe operations based on private data and or filtered access to the Internet. Faster development of femtocell based applications through a service creation environment and or a network layer may be supported. The network layer is operable to hide network complexity integration issues and or the differences among different femtocells . Also easier development of femtocell based applications due to a standardized execution environment and or a standardized application packaging format is supported.

The standardized application packaging format in the architecture may be part of the femtocell based applications . The standardized application packaging format may be defined by an operator of a mobile operator network and or may comprise the application s business logic and or the runtime libraries responsible for details of interaction between a femtocell based application and the runtime environment . The runtime libraries may be also responsible for interaction with the lifecycle manager for managing the femtocell based application bundles without any intervention from the developer .

The femtocell based application bundles may physically run in the mobile operator network and or external computers because the interaction between the runtime libraries and the execution environment can be realized by web service calls to the application API such as across a network e.g. an intranet and or the Internet .

Femtocell based applications developed deployed and or managed using the architecture can be better tested with greater detail. For example the testing framework component of the creation environment and or the presence event emulator in the network layer may be used for testing a developed femtocell based application . The testing framework component may be basically implemented as a software application which executes pre defined test suites mimicking the behavior of the execution environment in standard and or abnormal such as particular situations. The testing framework component may further record the behavior of a femtocell based application . For example said framework may be used to test a response of a femtocell based application in case no answer from a femtocell is received and or the femtocell based application s behavior when a plurality of events are notified by the application in a short time. The presence event emulator may be implemented as a piece of software operable to mimic one or more instances of a femtocell wherein two or more instances of femtocells may therefore be grouped into a femtozone in order to emulate real femtocells and or traffic patterns of network communication between femtocells . The simulated events created by the presence event emulator may be fed into the testing framework component which in turn feeds the femtocell based application under tests. The presence event emulator may impersonate one or more femtocells . The behavior of femtocells may be standardized by the execution environment . Therefore the presence event emulator may be conceived by a femtocell based application as a standard femtocell and or femtozone as fully specified by standard API to femtocells of the small cell forum.

The service creation environment comprises an application builder module a testing framework and or a reporting and profiling module . The application builder module provides a graphical building environment to allow developers to develop application logics for a femtocell based application . The testing framework comprises a set of testing automation tools and or test cases for developed femtocell based applications . The set of testing automation tools and or the test cases may be defined by a mobile network operator and or a third party developer for corresponding femtocell based applications . The creation environment for developing testing and or deploying femtocell based applications is provided with a corresponding application programming interface API interfacing a graphical user interface GUI for developers of femtocell based applications .

The execution environment comprises a lifecycle manager a runtime environment a reporting and monitoring module a presence event storage device a log storage device and or a users and permissions storage device . The storage devices may be implemented as relational object oriented and or XML based databases for example. The lifecycle manager comprises one or more modules for managing deployment upgrading and or removing of femtocell based applications developed by developers through a GUI interfaced to the creation environment . The runtime environment is operable to abstract from a specific femtocell based application by exposing to a user and or an administrator a standardized model and or a standardized API to femtocell based applications . The standardized API that the runtime environment exposes is operable to support control and or operation of a femtocell based application .

The standardized API exposed by the execution environment to the femtocell based applications in order to control and interact with femtocells may be implemented as part of the application API interfacing the execution environment and femtocell based applications . The standardized API may be provided by the small cell forum.

The standardized API may be a subset of the APIs exposed by the execution environment . APIs exposed by the execution environment may further comprise a lifecycle API an internet breakthrough API and or a content repository API. The APIs exposed by the execution environment may be implemented as HTTP request response transactions. The HTTP request response transactions may not directly be handled by a femtocell based application . The femtocell based application may rather interact with the runtime libraries which in turn may be operable to handle and or manage the HTTP request response transactions. An exemplary implementation of the at least one runtime library in Java is given at the end of the present description.

The standardized API as specified by the small cell forum may comprise the following specifications and or interfaces 

Femto Awareness Provides a subscription service for notifying femtocell based applications when a user device enters is in transitions etc. the coverage of a femtocell and or a femtozone. This feature may further enable a femtocell based application to query user devices within the coverage of a femtocell and or a femtozone. Further operations available to query a status of a femtocell are provided. An exemplary implementation of the Femto Awareness API is given below.

SMS An interface to send SMS messages to one or more user devices. Said interface may provide awareness of sent SMS message delivery status and or incoming SMS messages.

MMS An interface to send MMS messages to one or more user devices. Said interface may provide awareness of sent MMS message delivery status and or incoming MMS messages.

Terminal Location An interface to provide queries for the location of a user device camped on a femtocell.

Femto Presence API for device An interface to provide a handset with a notification upon its own entry exit and or transition within coverage of a femtocell and or a femtozone.

Terminal Status An interface to provide status data on a user device. The interface may further notify a call status e.g. initiates a call terminates a call of a user device operated in a femtocell based application . The interface may provide a femtocell based application with the opportunity to manipulate the call set up of a user device under coverage of a femtocell used by said application .

Redirection APIs An interface which can be used by user devices to configure for example setup routes filtering etc. Specific APIs can be identified for web redirection. For example a femtocell using said interface may perform redirection of a HTTP request from a user device operating under coverage of a femtocell to a specified URL.

Service Discovery APIs An interface which can be accessed by a user device to configure service discovery such as local network device awareness through a device discovery process.

Configuration APIs An interface which may be used by a femtocell based application to read and or modify parameters in a femtocell and or the execution environment .

Authentication Initialization APIs An interface which may be used by a femtocell based application to 

The authentication initialization API is invoked by the femtocell based application before invoking any other API. The authentication initialization API includes a security handshake to exchange encryption key data to generate a digest that the femtocell based application can use for subsequent communications with the execution environment and or to encrypt subsequent communications. Different security mechanisms may be supported depending on a deployment scenario and or on where a femtocell based application is running e.g. locally remotely.

Utility APIs An interface which is operable to ensure that a femtocell based application can properly run on a specific femtocell in case said application is locally running on said femtocell and or can properly communicate with the femtocell if said application is running remotely to said femtocell .

In the following an example implementation of the RESTful interface for the above mentioned Femto Awareness API of the standardized API for femtocells as specified by the small cell forum in terms of HTTP URI s used to invoke operations is given 

Femto Awareness Notifications Subscribe Unsubscribe Operation usable by a femtocell based application to initiate a subscription for a particular femtocell and or femtozone to receive notifications when a user device hands over to an associated femtocell either from the mobile operator network to the mobile operator network and or between femtocells within a femtozone wherein a HTTP POST may be used to start a subscription and or a HTTP DELETE may be used to terminate a subscription.

Query FemtoZone List Operations for HTTP GET queries for identifiers of a femtocell and or femtozone a femtocell based application is authorized use.

Query FemtoZone Status Operations for querying statistics and or status of a femtocell and or a femtozone using HTTP GET queries status and or relevant statistics.

Query Femtocell Status Operations to query statistics and or status of a femtocell within a femtozone using HTTP GET queries status including a specific access point and or all access points.

Query FemtoZone Users Operations to queries for user devices and or their users currently registered with a femtocell and or femtozone using HTTP GET queries for user devices currently under coverage of a femtocell and or a femtozone including specific user devices within the femtocell and or the femtozone all devices users on a specific access point and or all user devices currently within the femtocell and or the femtozone.

The standardized API exposed by the runtime environment of the execution environment may enable organization of femtocells into femtozones. Access to femtocells may be granted and or denied based on a permission and or certification provided by a corresponding user of the femtocell . The reporting and monitoring module provides logging and or real time monitoring of femtocell based applications . The logging data may be stored in the log storage device .

For administrators and or developers interacting with the architecture when developing and or managing femtocell based applications the architecture exposes one or more APIs . The APIs may be implemented as web interfaces to access the architecture .

For example the architecture exposes a developer API to a developer graphical user interface GUI for interaction with the front end creation environment of the architecture of developers developing femtocell based applications . The API may also provide access to users of femtocell based applications e.g. for user defined settings of femtocell based applications .

The architecture may further expose an administrator API to an administrator GUI for interaction with the back end execution environment of the architecture by administrators of the architecture . The administrator API may for example support access to the execution environment for administering the architecture for example by accessing and or interacting with the data storage devices and or through the administrator GUI regarding developer permissions assignment of femtocells to developers and or organization of femtocells into femtozones and or clusters for example. A subset of the administrator API may be used in order to provide a user configuration page. For example a femtocell based application may enable a user of a user device registered with at least one femtocell and or a developer to configure application behavior and or content for said femtocell based application . For this purpose an administrator may provide end users and or developers with the user configuration page which can be uploaded into the execution environment . For example a developer implements a femtocell based application which supports a user of a user device registered with at least one femtocell to receive a message e.g. an SMS and or an email with important reminds as soon as he returns in a specific local area such as at home. An administrator may deploy said femtocell based application using the lifecycle API and creates a web page in order to allow the user to configure said remind. The web page accesses the operator API which provides a user ID and said reminds for said user. The execution environment by leveraging one or more of the associated databases may be operable to check the user and authorization for the femtocell based application to store the user configured content e.g. the reminds in the content repository and or to notify the femtocell based application about said new content. When the user is under coverage of the specific area the femtocell based application is notified to push said reminds to the user via his registered user device.

The APIs may allow a mobile network operator to integrate the architecture with the operator s own portal of the corresponding mobile operator network . Preferably the architecture may be implemented with its own GUIs and may run as a standalone system within the mobile operator network for example as a cloud application.

The network layer comprises one or more femtocells provided by one or more femtocell providers and or one or more mobile network operators. The network layer may further comprise a presence event emulator an Internet breakthrough and or a content repository . The presence event emulator provides a virtual femtocell for emulating events for example for testing purposes when testing femtocells for deployment. The present event emulator may be operable to access the presence event database of the execution environment during testing to access presence data required for the testing. The Internet breakthrough is operable to monitor access to the Internet and or provides a firewall to femtocells for femtocell based applications . The content repository is a storage device storing data and or content which may be delivered for example in a data stream by a corresponding femtocell based application to a respective mobile device of a user during operation of the femtocell based application .

The content repository may store multimedia data comprising one or more of the following basic types including text images audio data and or video data 

Text The form in which the text can be stored can vary greatly. In addition to ASCII based files text is typically stored in processor files spreadsheets databases and annotations on more general multimedia objects. With availability and proliferation of GUIs text fonts the job of storing text is becoming complex allowing special effects such as color shades etc.

Images There is great variance in the quality and size of storage for still images. Digitalized images are sequence of pixels that represents a region in the user s graphical display. The space overhead for still images varies on the basis of resolution size complexity and compression scheme used to store an image. Available image formats include jpg png bmp tiff.

Audio An increasingly popular datatype being integrated in most applications is Audio. Its quite space intensive. One minute of sound can take up to 2 3 Mbs of space. Several techniques are used to compress it in suitable format.

Video One on the most space consuming multimedia data type is digitalized video. The digitalized videos are stored as sequence of frames. Depending upon its resolution and size a single frame can consume up to 1 MB. Also to have realistic video playback the transmission compression and decompression of digitalized require continuous transfer rate.

Graphic Objects Such objects comprise of special data structures used to define 2D and 3D shapes through which we can define multimedia objects. Graphic objects include various formats used by image video editing applications. Examples are CAD CAM objects.

One or more operator APIs are provided for seamless access between the network layer and the execution environment . The operator APIs may be exposed by the network layer to the execution environment . The operator APIs may enable access to the femtocells in the network layer from the execution environment and or support management of femtocells and or related femtocell based applications through the execution environment . The operator APIs are defined between functions within the mobile operator network which may be required to support femtocell based applications . Said functions may comprise femtocell management including registering of new a new femtocell creating a femtozone associating a femtocell to a femtozone configure a list IMSI for a femtocell and or a femtozone and or content repository management including adding modifying viewing deleting multimedia data and or associating disassociating multimedia content to a femtocell and or a femtozone.

The operator APIs may not be visible to a developer accessing the creating environment from the developer GUI through the developer API when developing a femtocell based application and or configuring user defined settings of a femtocell based application .

One or more femtocell based applications developed and or deployed in the architecture comprise a runtime library and or runtime libraries link to one or more corresponding femtocell based applications for accessing the API of the corresponding one or more femtocells . The runtime library exposes standard methods and or attributes for managing the application lifecycle of a femtocell based application through the lifecycle manager of the execution environment . The runtime library may comprise a static and or dynamic linking with the application logics of a femtocell based application .

The runtime library may be implemented for a plurality of different programming languages and or platforms. In one exemplary implementation the runtime libraries may be implemented in Java for an android platform. With such an exemplary implementation the runtime libraries are available in the form of precompiled Java classes. In this example a femtocell based application is implemented in Java wherein the runtime library is dynamically linked with said application . The file including the femtocell based application and the file including the runtime libraries may be grouped together in a single JAR file for example as chosen by the developer of said application . In this example the standardized API for a femtocell is available as Java function calls and or Java classes so that for the developer the femtocell and or the femtozone is considered as standard Java objects. When the developer interacts with a femtocell represented by such a Java object the runtime library generates a web service API exposed by the execution environment in order to notify the femtocell about an action of the femtocell based application and receives a reaction. The reaction may be provided to a user of a registered user device as a standard Java return value such as a Java standard object representing a result.

The runtime library may be available in different languages to allow a wide choice of programming languages. Further for a faster development process the runtime library for femtocell based applications may provide convenience methods to access applications and or services provided by the execution environment and or the network layer .

For example a femtocell based application may operate as follows The application is notified about a presence of a user device under a given femtocell . The femtocell based application retrieves data from the content repository depending on the femtocell and or a raised event. The femtocell based application pushes the retrieved data to the user device . In one exemplary implementation a convenience method supports a fast binding of the identifier of the femtocell the data requested and or the push method so as to allow in a single line of code to deliver via SMS the data selected for the user device entering a given area and or space.

Femtocell based applications developed and or deployed in the architecture are operable to interact with the execution environment through application APIs . The application APIs may be visible to an application developer interacting with the architecture through the developer GUI . The application APIs may be defined for different modules and or components such as a femtocell a residential gateway an application gateway for example for exposing mobile operator network capabilities to third party applications and or application servers within the mobile operator network . An exemplary technical specification of the application APIs and the operator API is given in the following table.

The runtime environment may be implemented comprising an http application server in order to receive web service calls from femtocell based applications a workflow engine in order to orchestrate the execution of a web service call and or a collection of interface modules for interaction. The workflow engine may comprise programming logics to identify a target femtocell based application regarding a femtocell with its make and model the internet breakthrough and or the content repository . In case the target is a femtocell the workflow engine accesses its interface library being an internal table comprising programming logics to fulfill the request. The interface modules may interact with one or more femtocells for example depending on the femtocell model through an http s client an http s server and or a non standard module. The interface modules may further interact with an http s and s ftp module in order to access the Internet via the internet breakthrough . The interface modules may further interact with an http client in order to access to the content repository .

The lifecycle manager may be implemented with an internal table storing deployed femtocell based applications along with their states e.g. ready running stopped server where deployed an http client in order to notify a femtocell based application of state changes for example when they are about to enter and or stop a running state and or an interface toward a femtocell based application server in order to upload and or delete a femtocell based application and or an application bundle.

The architecture can support different femtocells independent of a specific topology a femtocell might be designed for and or specified with. Hence femtocells can be designed for different network topologies however used in the same way independent of the topology design when developing and or managing a femtocell based application operating on the femtocells .

Basically in operation a femtocell establishes a tunnel connection to a mobile operator network . The femtocell may however expose its capabilities and or functionality to the mobile operator network in different manners. For example a femtocell may export corresponding presence data to the core mobile operator network to a new specialized core network element referred to as a femtocell gateway acting as a presence server in the mobile operator network and or the femtocell may expose a public interface to the Internet made available through the mobile operator network . A femtocell gateway may comprise a security gateway that terminates large numbers of encrypted IP data connections from hundreds of thousands of femtocells and or a signaling gateway which aggregates and or validates the signaling traffic authenticates each femtocell and or interfaces with the mobile operator network core switches using standard protocols such as lu. There may be then provided an interface between the femtocell access points and the femtocell gateway .

The architecture and in particular the execution environment is operable to hide from the above described topological details i.e. how a femtocell establishes a connection with a mobile operator network of a femtocell regarding exposing functionality to the mobile operator network . In this way a developer developing a femtocell based application for such a femtocell through the developer GUI by accessing the creation environment of the architecture becomes able to develop said application independent of a specific topology of the underlying femtocell . Consequently even changes to the femtocell topology might not require any changes to the femtocell based application developed for said femtocell .

For hiding the topology details of the femtocell from the application developer the execution environment provides one or more interfaces for polling the mobile operator network for subscribing to a femtocell gateway accepting registration from the femtocell and or directly querying the femtocell when the femtocell is manually provided to the network . When establishing a connection between the femtocell and the network using the execution environment as described the execution environment is operable to retrieve required data about the femtocell comprising a serial number a MAC address make and model etc. which can be used in subsequent operations. The retrieved data is then used to establish a connection between the femtocell and the mobile operator network according to the topology of the femtocell by automatically processing the corresponding interface for the femtocell topology which is determined based on the retrieved data about the femtocell .

The mobile operator of the mobile operator network and or an administrator may be aware of femtocells which can be controlled by a given femtocell based application and assigns femtocells to femtocell based applications for interaction. When assigning a femtocell with a femtocell based application the femtocell is provided with a unique identifier ID and with the make and model and or further configuration information that cannot be inferred e.g. which femtocell gateway the femtocell is attached to . Based on said assigned information the execution environment is operable to look up in a database an associated network topology which is supported by the femtocell in order to interact for example directly through the femtocell gateway or through any other interface toward the mobile operator network with the femtocell .

Further when a femtocell establishes a tunnel connection to a mobile operator network the femtocell may only export an ID of the corresponding SIM Card IMSI of a user device having entered under the coverage of the femtocell . The execution environment of the architecture is then operable to enhance presence information of the user device using the retrieved IMSI. For example using the IMSI of the user device the execution environment is operable to add presence data to the user device under coverage of the femtocell including any other related data such as IMEI MSISDN user details found in the mobile operator network the femtocell gateway and or in the execution environment s internal data storage devices including the presence event storage device and or the user and permissions database .

Providing a structured and or enriched set of presence data to a user device under coverage of a femtocell may ease development of more complex femtocell based applications . For example an operator of a mobile operator network may want to use and or allow developers to use its information about a user to provide enriched services whereas only non targeted services can be deployed on the basis of a standard location API since the IMSI is provided only. Allowing profiling a user based on his presence history and the data allowed by the operator enables for example customized advertising a femtocell based application since the femtocell based application is provided with additional information from the operator of the network to choose the content to be pushed to a user device.

For example when a femtocell based application interacts with a femtocell through the runtime environment for example to process a request from a user services of the runtime library associated with the femtocell based application forwards the request to the runtime environment . The runtime environment then accesses data from its storage devices and or about the femtocell retrieved during a previous development of the femtocell based application . The femtocell based application interacts with the runtime environment through the API in order to process the request. New model interfaces can be dynamically added to the interface library . Furthermore the runtime library may further isolate the application logic of the femtocell application providing an identical interface for any type of femtocell .

Using the architecture a femtocell based application may be packaged into a self contained bundle for example in case the femtocell based application is implemented in Java the self contained bundle may be packaged as JAR and or WAR which are standard self containing Java packages. For security reasons the JAR and or WAR bundles should be signed with one of the standard software signature methods after the testing phase and before the operator of the mobile operator network decides to deploy the femtocell based application into to execution environment .

The packaged femtocell based application may be managed centrally and in a standardized manner using the runtime environment . For example part of the runtime library of the femtocell based application referred to as lifecycle management runtime library may be transparent to a developer of the femtocell based application . Said lifecycle management runtime library allows the runtime environment to identify the packaged bundle for the femtocell based application and or the developer of said application to check the developer s signature and integrity and or to perform version management including storing deploying starting stopping and or un deploying operations on the femtocell based application .

Further for each femtocell in a femtozones bundle the runtime environment is operable to retrieve the femtozones make and mode which can be retrieved from an attachment phase to access the function translation table provided with a command and or the make model of the respective femtocell to find femtocell specific functions to execute the command and or to provide a result.

The architecture may be associated with e.g. integrated in deployed within connected to implemented within a mobile operator network as shown in . An administrator of a third party and or the operator of the mobile operator network may interact with the architecture through an administrator GUI interfaced to the architecture . At S the administrator grants an application developer access to the creation environment of the architecture to develop a femtocell based application . The femtocell based application can be developed for any kind of femtocell and or independent of a specific femtocell and or independent of specific technical requirements such as a topology APIs functionality etc. of a femtocell . At S the administrator may enforce a minimum set of test cases the femtocell based application to be developed need to pass. For example the administrator provides in the testing framework of the creation environment the test cases together with required data.

Having granted access to the creation environment the developer designs builds and or implements a femtocell based application through the developer GUI interfaced to the creation environment S. The developer deploys the developed femtocell based application into the mobile operator network of a mobile network operator also referred to as operator for access and or use by one or more users when operating at least one user device plugged in and or registered at a femtocell .

The test cases for the femtocell based application can be run by an end user through his user device under coverage of a femtocell when accessing the developed femtocell based application a first time S. Alternatively and or additionally the administrator may run the test cases on the developed femtocell based application before deployed into the mobile operator network . Subsequently the femtocell based application is deployed into the mobile operator network S.

A user having at least one user device registered to at least one femtocell may subscribe when the user device is under coverage of the femtocell to one or more femtocell based applications including the previously developed and deployed one for example from the mobile network operator s portal and or an electronic femtocell application store provided through the user device S. In interaction of the femtocell based application S the user device and the architecture interact to process requests within the femtocell based application the user has subscribed to with his user device .

The personal computer may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown and an external disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable disk . The removable disk may be a magnetic disk for a magnetic disk driver or an optical disk such as a CD ROM for an optical disk drive. The hard disk drive and the external disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface and an external disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the personal computer . The data structures may include relevant data for the implementation of the method for development and management of femtocell based applications as described above. The relevant data may be organized in a database for example a relational database management system or an object oriented database management system.

Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk not shown and an external disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories read only memories and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk external disk ROM or RAM including an operating system not shown one or more application programs other program modules not shown and program data . The application programs may include at least a part of the functionality as depicted in .

A user may enter commands and information as discussed below into the personal computer through input devices such as keyboard and mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone or other sensors joystick game pad scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus or may be collected by other interfaces such as a parallel port interface game port or a universal serial bus USB . Further information may be printed using printer . The printer and other parallel input output devices may be connected to the processing unit through parallel port interface . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video input output . In addition to the monitor computing environment may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers or other audible output.

The computing environment may communicate with other electronic devices such as a computer telephone wired or wireless personal digital assistant television or the like. To communicate the computer environment may operate in a networked environment using connections to one or more electronic devices. depicts the computer environment networked with remote computer . The remote computer may be another computing environment such as a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing environment . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may particularly be encrypted.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing environment may be connected to the LAN through a network I O . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing environment may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external to computing environment is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing environment or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device resident on or accessible to remote computer . Furthermore other data relevant to the method for optimization of evaluation of a policy described above may be resident on or accessible via the remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the electronic devices may be used.

The above described computing system is only one example of the type of computing system that may be used to implement the method for development and management of femtocell based applications.

In the following an exemplary implementation of the runtime libraries in Java is given. The program code may be comprised in the runtime libraries for at least one femtocell based application and may use the standardized API which can be implemented as HTTP request response transactions in order to interact with femtocells thereby exposing standard Java objects to the femtocell based application .

