---

title: Managing devices within micro-grids
abstract: An approach to provide power from power supply devices to power consuming devices based on using priority levels for each of the power consuming and supply devices. The approach includes the steps of receiving information of a power consuming device from an energy management, including criticality information obtained from a universal appliance service system. The approach further includes receiving power supply information of one or more power supply devices associated with an electric grid, and receiving a power request from the power consuming device. The approach further includes determining that the power consuming device receives power from the power supply device, based on the criticality information and the power supply information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515491&OS=09515491&RS=09515491
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09515491
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130918
---
The present invention generally relates to power distribution and more particularly to methods and systems for providing power from power supply devices to power consuming devices using a distributed system.

Electrical power networks include a number of different systems such as a generation system a transmission system and a distribution system. The distribution system i.e. distribution grid or distribution network traditionally receives power from one or more high voltage sources of the transmission system and distributes that power to feeder lines. To distribute power within the electrical power network the distribution system can transform voltage e.g. stepping down power from a transmission voltage level to a distribution voltage level regulate voltage e.g. adjusting the voltage of feeder lines as loads are added and removed conserve power regulate power switch and protect different parts of the distribution system e.g. using switches circuit breakers reclosers and fuses that connect or disconnect portions of the distribution system between different generation systems and or any other operations.

Technology has transformed distribution grids into decentralized systems that allow for a variety of power generation and storage components to be located at a power user s location instead of having a central location e.g. a power plant that provides power for all the power users. For example premises e.g. a home or a business within the distribution grid may operate their own energy resources e.g. solar cells wind turbines and batteries that can also provide power to the distribution grid. An operator of the distribution grid e.g. a utility or a third party company uses smart energy devices e.g. ZigBee of ZigBee Alliance Corp. San Ramon Calif. to remotely control components of the distribution grid.

In a first aspect of the invention a method for configuring micro grids comprises the steps of receiving information of a power consuming device from an energy management system the energy management system receives criticality of the power consuming device from a universal appliance service system. The method further comprises receiving power supply information of one or more power supply devices associated with an electric grid and receiving a power request from the power consuming device. The method further comprises determining by a computing device that the power consuming device receives power from the power supply device based on the information and the power supply information.

In another aspect of the invention a system for configuring a micro grid includes a CPU a computer readable storage memory and a computer readable storage media. Additionally the system comprises program instructions to receive information regarding one or more power consuming devices. The system also comprises program instructions to receive criticality levels for each of the power consuming device as obtained from a universal appliance service system in direct communication with an energy management system. The system also comprises program instructions to receive power supply information regarding one or more power supply devices. The system also comprises program instructions to determine that power is available from the power supply devices to operate a selected one or more of the power consuming devices. The system also comprises program instructions to place a request for power of a non critical power consuming device of the one or more power consuming devices into a queue for a delayed operating time when there is not enough power to operate both a critical power consuming device and the non critical power consuming device. Each of the program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by the CPU via the computer readable memory.

In an additional aspect of the invention a computer program product that includes a computer usage storage device that includes readable computer code embodied in the medium is provided. The computer program product comprises at least one component operable to receive power consumption information for a power consuming device from a third party. The computer program product comprises receiving from an EM system a location an identifier and a device type for the power consuming device. The computer program product comprises determining electrical characteristics of the power consuming device based on the power consumption information and the identifier and the device type received from the EM system. The computer program product comprises determining criticality of the power consuming device based on the power consumption information and the location the identifier and the device type received from the EM system. The computer program product comprises sending the criticality of the power consuming device to the EM system.

The present invention generally relates to electrical power distribution and more particularly to methods and systems for providing power from power supply devices to power consuming devices using a distributed system. In embodiments the distributed system utilizes priorities for each of the power consuming devices and supply devices received from a management system. In embodiments the present invention also utilizes a universal appliance service UAS system to provide an energy management EM system with electrical characteristics for power consuming devices and power supply devices that are registered with the EM system. In embodiments the UAS system stores device information in a central location as received from the devices or a third party e.g. device manufacturer electrical utilities insurance companies etc.

The UAS system ensures that devices are not given electrical characteristics and priorities which are being defined differently by different parties and or users associated with the micro grid. The UAS system can provide such information to the EM system. In turn the EM system can determine priorities for power consuming devices used within the micro grid based on the criticality level of the device. For example the EM system uses the priorities and the electrical characteristics of the power consuming devices or power supply devices to generate load profiles and or power supply profiles for one or more devices. In this way the present invention is a decentralized system that ensures sustainability reliability and power quality within a micro grid by generating load profiles based on the currently available power supply output and reserves. Thus advantageously the invention results in optimizing the power generation within a micro grid to provide service to the maximum number of critical and non critical power consuming devices.

In embodiments a power demand associated with one or more different power consuming devices e.g. air conditioning unit a washer etc. can be compared to the amount of available power from one or more different power supply devices in order to supply electrical power and manage an electric micro grid system. The management may take into account for example an amount of available power in the micro grid the criticality level of the power consuming device e.g. critical non critical the location of the power consuming device and or power supply device the time of day the customer characteristics and or reliability and power quality issues for the micro grid. The criticality information can be provided by the UAS system which can determine different criticality levels of different devices. Also the UAS system may determine criticality levels for a power consuming device based on the type of device the location of the device and or any special event e.g. hurricane earthquake etc. that is occurring at a particular time. This information can now be stored in the UAS system without the EM system receiving such information directly from the particular devices. This ensures that the EM system receives uniform and accurate information for each of the devices. Accordingly implementations of the invention configure manage and monitor micro grids.

In embodiments the EM system can provide profiles e.g. load profiles and power supply profiles of devices to the micro grid manager. In embodiments the EM system is provided on a consumer side e.g. at the device location in the micro grid and receives device information from the UAS system. The UAS system can store device profiles in a central location such that the EM system may no longer need to query each individual device for their profiles or criticality information as described herein. Using this information the micro grid manager can then determine which devices can operate based on how much power is available and the associated profiles of the device as information is received from the EM system.

In embodiments the EM system may store different profiles for the same device depending on different criteria. In embodiments the profile may include electrical characteristics of the devices criticality level of the device device identifier ID and other information. The EM system may receive the criticality level of the device from the UAS system. The EM system may also receive electrical characteristics e.g. power consumption or supply values given in kilowatts megawatts etc. from the UAS system for different devices. The profile may be used to control operation of one or more power consuming devices and or one or more power supply devices based on the time of day time of season etc. or other characteristics of the device or electrical grid. The micro grid manager can generate control information and send this information to the EM system or vice versa. The EM system can control the power consuming devices and or the power supply devices.

In embodiments the load profile may include information about i the amount of load e.g. the power demand requirements at different times e.g. a load requires 100 kilowatts of power from 9 00 a.m. to 4 00 p.m. and 25 kilowatts of power from 4 00 p.m. to 5 00 p.m. or ii device characteristics for different times e.g. output temperature for chilled water from a chiller or output temperature of heat from electric heat strips in an air handling unit of the load. The load profile may be used to isolate or identify a critical power consuming device e.g. a life support device and or a non critical power consuming device e.g. a television. A power supply profile on the other hand may include information about the amount of power supply provided by a power supply device at different times or other criteria. In embodiments a user may enter the load profile into the EM system which in turn may send e.g. publish the load profile to a micro grid manager. Based on the load profile the micro grid manager may determine if there is enough power available for the devices described within the load profile. If not the micro grid manager may disable non critical power consuming devices and divert power to the critical power consuming device.

As it should be understood a micro grid is a self sufficient island that is electrically isolated i.e. islanded from the rest of a distribution grid and that includes sufficient energy resources to satisfy power demanded by consuming devices within the micro grid. For example an area of a distribution grid may include one or more premises e.g. residences offices or facilities including devices that consume electrical power e.g. lights and appliances and energy resources that provide electrical power e.g. fuel cells micro turbines generators solar cells wind turbines etc. . A micro grid may include a subset of the premises that in combination produce sufficient power to meet the total power consumed within the subset of the premises. A utility operator or another type of third party operator e.g. a utility customer with their own generation or co generation system or an independent power producer may create the micro grid by opening switching elements in the distribution grid that electrically isolate the premises within an area of the distribution grid from the remainder of the distribution grid.

In embodiments a utility provider can dynamically create and or reconfigure micro grids to minimize the number of customers affected by an event that disrupts power delivery to portions of a distribution grid. Such events may include maintenance construction severe weather natural disasters man made disasters etc. For example in response to a snowstorm that causes parts of the distribution grid to fail the utility operator e.g. a power provider distributer and or manager may remotely control switches e.g. using supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA controllers installed in the distribution grid to configure and establish one or more micro grids. After the disruption ends e.g. the damage has been repaired the utility operator may reconfigure the distribution grid to dissolve the micro grids without affecting the stability and reliability of the distribution grid.

Further aspects of the invention manage micro grids by dynamically controlling distributed energy resources and energy consumption devices at premises within the distribution grid e.g. homes and business locations . For example the disclosed systems and methods may monitor conditions within a micro grid and in response to changes in the conditions e.g. changes in or supply or demand issue commands to remotely modify i.e. tune the operation of the devices within the micro grid to generate or consume more or less power. By doing so the utility operator enhances the reliability and robustness of the service provided to its customers. Additionally the utility operator can maximize the use of local energy resources to satisfy the local energy demand thereby reducing potential environmental negative impacts of power generation e.g. soot from coal fired power plants .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium and or device hereinafter referred to as computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In embodiments the EM system can be part of device and can be used to provide profiles for the server e.g. micro grid manager . The devices can be e.g. either power consuming devices or power supply devices. By way of non limiting examples power supply devices can be generators turbines fuel cells micro turbines or any other type of device that generates power. By way of non limiting examples power consuming devices may be any device that consumes power such as lighting cooling systems motors pumps machinery and or any other type of power consuming device.

In embodiments the power consuming devices can be either critical or non critical devices. By way of non limiting examples a critical power consuming device may be any device used to provide heat cooling lighting pumping and or any other operation that is used at governmental or medical facilities e.g. hospital police station or prison as well as devices used to provide support during catastrophic events e.g. a hurricane an earthquake etc. . For example critical power consuming devices may be a particular type of medical equipment within a hospital lighting systems at a prison and or pumping systems at a fire station. On the other hand a non critical power consuming device may be a television or any other type of device not associated with a critical power consuming device.

In particular computing system includes a computing device . Computing device can be resident on a network infrastructure or computing device of a third party service provider any of which is generally represented in . Computing device also includes a processor memory A an I O interface and a bus . Memory A can include local memory employed during actual execution of program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. In addition computing device includes random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and an operating system O S .

Computing device is in communication with external I O device resource and storage system B. For example I O device can include any device that enables an individual to interact with computing device e.g. user interface or any device that enables computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. External I O device resource may be for example a handheld device PDA handset keyboard etc.

In general processor executes computer program code e.g. program control which can be stored in memory A and or storage system B. Moreover in accordance with aspects of the invention program control controls a configuration engine and or a micro grid manager e.g. the processes described herein. Configuration engine and micro grid manager can be implemented as one or more program code in program control stored in memory A as separate or combined modules. Additionally configuration engine and micro grid manager may be implemented as separate dedicated processors or a single or several processors to provide the function of these tools. Further configuration engine and micro grid manager along with their respective data and modules can be implemented in separate devices. Moreover configuration engine and micro grid manager along with their respective data and modules can be implemented in different planes of a network e.g. a control plane and a service plane .

In accordance with aspects of the invention configuration engine is hardware software or a combination thereof that configures a micro grid within a distribution grid. In embodiments configuration engine determines demand by consuming devices within the micro grid and whether such demand can be met within that micro grid. Energy consuming devices include for example home appliances lighting electric vehicles etc. The energy resources include variable energy resources VERs and distributed energy resources DERs including e.g. generators e.g. gas wind solar etc. and energy storage devices e.g. electric batteries fuel cells electric vehicles etc. .

In embodiments configuration engine issues messages to control elements of the distribution grid e.g. switches connected to SCADA controllers in order to modify the topology of the electrical distribution network and create or modify the micro grid. For example the configuration engine may dynamically modify a micro grid by reducing the number of connected premises and or consuming devices within the micro grid based on current conditions e.g. weather load power generation etc. within the distribution grid.

Still referring to in accordance with aspects of the invention the configuration engine includes a historical analysis module a forecast analysis module and or a configuration analysis module . Historical analysis module is hardware software or a combination thereof that analyzes historical information such as historical information in storage system B. In embodiments historical information may be collected from devices such as power supply devices e.g. micro turbine generator etc. and or power consuming devices e.g. motors life support systems MRI machine lighting etc. associated with the distribution grid and or third party sources.

In embodiments historical information may be collected from EM system which receives this information directly from devices . Historical information includes for example past weather conditions e.g. temperature precipitation wind directions and forces barometric pressure and sky conditions electrical conditions e.g. voltage current real reactive and apparent power network topology power outage information communications infrastructure information e.g. operating status location clients and asset information e.g. identification host network location . Historical analysis module aggregates correlates filters and or enriches historical information using conventional data analysis techniques. For example historical analysis module may average power demand data at different locations e.g. premises over a time period to generate a digest of historical information that associates locations of a distribution grid including micro grids with power demand at different time frames e.g. monthly daily hourly etc. .

Forecast analysis module is hardware software or a combination thereof that combines historical information e.g. the digest of historical information determined by historical analysis module and forecast information such as forecast information in storage system B to determine forecasted near term conditions in the electrical network. Forecast information may be information generated by the utility operator and or obtained from third party sources. For example forecast information includes weather forecast information local forecast information and power generation forecast information including wind solar temperature etc. . Forecast analysis module may analyze forecast information using one or more predefined models to forecast near term conditions of the distribution grid. For example based on energy consumption profiles and energy generation profiles forecast analysis module generates a data structure that associates locations e.g. premises of an electrical grid including micro grids with predicted power demand at different times in the near future e.g. days hours minutes etc. . The generated forecast may be continually and or periodically updated e.g. in real time .

Configuration analysis module is hardware software or a combination thereof that determines network topology including micro grid configurations based on historical information forecast information and or the current state of the distribution grid. In embodiments based on the forecasted near term conditions determined by forecast analysis module configuration analysis module determines configuration information which defines locations e.g. premises that can be electrically isolated into one or more micro grids that include energy resources e.g. distributed and or variable energy resources such as wind turbines that can generate a greater amount of power than consumed by energy consuming devices e.g. appliances operating within the micro grid. Configuration analysis module may analyze the near term forecast information and or the current state information using conventional techniques. For example configuration analysis module may analyze the information using data event and data pattern matching graphs exploration Monte Carlo simulation stochastic and Las Vegas algorithms approximation and genetics heuristics using rules based or model based datasets to aggregate correlate and analyze the above real time and historical information sources to define the optimal network configuration for micro grids. An optimal configuration for a micro grid may include a mix of energy resources and energy consuming devices that maximize the number of users in one or more micro grids.

In accordance with aspects of the invention micro grid manager is hardware software or a combination thereof that implements and manages micro grids. In embodiments micro grid manager obtains configuration information generated by configuration engine and based on that information issues commands to devices within the distribution grid to open switches that isolate one or more portions into a micro grid. Further in embodiments micro grid manager manages micro grids by ensuring that demand by power consumers within a particular micro grid is satisfied by the power providers within that micro grid. In implementations using analysis techniques similar to configuration engine micro grid manager may combine current e.g. real time information received from devices and or systems in a micro grid with historical information and forecast information to dynamically tune the performance of energy resources and power consumers within the micro grid. For example based on current temperature information received from one or more devices in the distribution grid micro grid manager may communicate with smart appliances e.g. water heater and air conditioner in a home area network of premises in the micro grid and control them to reduce their power consumption.

In embodiments micro grid manager may receive electrical power consumption information from devices via EM system e.g. power supply devices and or power consuming devices that are registered with micro grid manager . In embodiments EM system can generate profiles and send the profiles to micro grid manager .

EM system can receive various types of information associated with power consuming devices and or power supply devices to control the power consuming devices and or the power supply devices within the micro grid system. More specifically EM system can receive location information and identifier information from the power consuming devices and use this information to request the criticality of a power consuming device and or electrical characteristic information for different power consuming and supply devices from UAS system .

In embodiments EM system may include an application programming interface API that allows for EM system to communicate with UAS system . In further embodiments UAS system may include one or more computing devices with each computing device associated with one entity or different entities. An entity could be a utility a manufacturer of a power consuming and or supply device a company that manages the micro grid or any other third party entity. In this and other implementations UAS system may receive a request from EM system to determine the criticality level of the power consuming device.

In embodiments UAS system can receive and store information about different power consuming devices and power supply devices. The information may include power consumption information power supply information identification numbers model number year of manufacture type of device e.g. a generator a chiller a washing machine a refrigerator etc. and or any other information describing the mechanical and electrical characteristics of the device. Using this information UAS system can determine the criticality level of the devices.

As an example UAS system can use information relating to the type of device as a factor in determining a power consuming device s criticality level e.g. a dialysis machine will have a greater criticality level than a gaming system. Additionally or alternatively UAS system can use information relating to the location of the device as a factor in determining a power consuming device s criticality level. For example a power consuming device located at a hospital can have a greater criticality level than a power consuming device located at a restaurant. Additionally or alternatively UAS system can use information relating to the particular time of day month year or other time period as a factor in determining a power consuming device s criticality level. EM system can update the load profile based on the change in criticality and send the change in criticality to micro grid manager .

Additionally or alternatively UAS system can use information relating to particular events as a factor in determining a power consuming device s criticality level. UAS system may have information about a device that receives information about emergency events such as hurricanes tornadoes snowstorms earthquakes etc. UAS system may use this information to change the criticality level of a power consuming device and send the change in criticality to EM system . EM System can update the load profile based on the change in criticality and send the change in criticality to micro grid manager . For example during a natural event e.g. hurricane a school may be used as a makeshift hospital or shelter and as such the lighting and heating systems may be reclassified as critical. By doing so micro grid manager may ensure that sufficient energy is produced in the micro grid to power devices that may operate within the micro grid.

In embodiments UAS system can use known algorithms to determine the criticality level. Also in embodiments UAS system can use inputs received from a user that assign criticality levels to different types of power consuming devices. For example a user may input a higher criticality level for power consuming devices located at a hospital than at a supermarket. Also in any of the embodiments the criticality levels may be provided as numerical values. e.g. a higher numerical value may indicate a higher criticality level.

UAS system can receive device information e.g. electrical characteristic information etc. from a device manufacturer or directly from the device. Preferably the device information is received from a verifiable source e.g. a device manufacturer to ensure the integrity of the device information. This also ensures that the device information is uniform amongst the same types of device which prevents any manipulation of the device information at the customer side. UAS system can send the criticality information and or the electrical characteristic information to EM system which uses the criticality information and or the electrical characteristics to generate a profile for the power consuming device and the power supply device. For example EM system can use the electrical characteristic information to assign power consumption values e.g. 10 kilowatts 100 kilowatts etc. to power consuming devices and assign power supply values e.g. 100 kilowatts 1 megawatt etc. to power supply devices. EM system may store one or more different profiles that are associated with one or more power consuming devices and or power supply devices .

The profiles may be configured by EM system or by a user of EM system by using historical information current information and forecast information. EM system may include a graphical user interface GUI that allows for a user to make changes e.g. by using a keypad a touch screen voice activated commands etc. to different profiles stored by EM system as well as other types of configurations associated with the power consuming devices and or the power supply devices. EM system may publish e.g. generate and send the profiles to micro grid manager which subscribes to information from EM system . EM system can send this information to micro grid system via any known communication network.

EM system may be operated by the user of the power consuming devices and or the power supply devices. Alternatively EM system may be operated by a utility company or a demand response program supplier. In embodiments EM system and micro grid manager are managed and operated by the same group. In other embodiments EM system may be a part of one or more devices .

Upon receiving the power consumption and supply information micro grid manager may update network connectivity information for the micro grid. The network connectivity information can include information about the total number of power consuming devices and power supply devices connected within the micro grid as well as devices connected to each other. Micro grid manager can receive this information in real time and use this information to determine a real time electrical state of the micro grid. For example micro grid manager may use this information to determine if a power quality level or power flow level reaches a threshold e.g. 75 85 90 etc. . Micro grid manager may also determine the network topology to determine the power flow and the power quality. If the power flow and or the power quality thresholds are not met then micro grid manager may initiate different actions that result in the thresholds being met. Once the thresholds are met micro grid manger may process requests to initiate and or disable power consuming devices or power supply devices.

In embodiments micro grid manager can receive a request or make a determination based on a profile analysis to 1 provide power to a power consuming device 2 stop providing power to a power consuming device 3 add a power supply device to provide power to the micro grid 4 deny power to the power consuming device 5 divert power from one power consuming device to another power consuming device and or 6 ramp up power to reserve power supply devices to provide the additional power. The request may include electric power consumption information and or power supply information and may be sent from EM system . EM system can then be used to control the micro grid by manipulating the electrical load of each of the devices based on received information from the micro grid.

Micro grid manager may also determine to provide power based on whether the power is being requested by a critical or non critical power consuming device. In embodiments UAS system can receive information of the devices including whether they are critical or non critical devices in which case such information can be provided to micro grid manager via EM system . For example micro grid manager may divert power to the critical power consuming device from a non critical power consuming device or provide controls to receive power generated by a reserve power supply device which is standby mode. Alternatively micro grid manager may provide controls to provide power to a non critical power consuming device if there is available power from the power supply devices. However when there is no available power or insufficient available power the micro grid manager can use a profile that uses less power that may provide power depending on the criticality level of the power consuming device. In the latter situation micro grid manager may send a message to the user of the power consuming device that power is not available. The message may be sent to an EM system and or any other computing device e.g. a smart phone a laptop a PDA device etc. .

In embodiments micro manager may simulate changes to the micro grid to determine whether the micro grid can remain reliable and sustainable in providing power to the power consuming devices. If the simulation determines the micro grid can maintain its reliability and sustainability e.g. power quality levels power flow etc. micro grid manager may send control information to the power demand devices and or to the power supply devices. In embodiments micro grid manager can send the control information directly to the power demand devices and or to the power supply devices or alternatively to EM system . EM system can then use the control information to change the load profile of the device stored by the EM system in order to change the operation of a load and or a power supply device. If the simulation is not successful e.g. reliability and sustainability cannot be met micro grid manager can manipulate the devices e.g. increase power supply with decreased power consumption of other devices to enhance the reliability and sustainability model. This information can be sent as control information to EM system .

Although micro grid manager is shown in as being incorporated in server along with configuration engine micro grid manager can be implemented on a separate server or other computing device. For example configuration engine can be part of a utility operator s centralized distribution and or control infrastructure of a distribution grid and micro grid manager can be part of a service plane that communicates with devices e.g. a presence server in a control that services devices in a user transport plane.

In embodiments configuration engine and micro grid manager operate in real time. In the context of this disclosure real time is processing information at a rate that is approximately the same or faster than the rate at which the system receives information from one or more devices operating in the system. For example if a real time system receives information at a frequency of 1 Hertz the system outputs information at approximately 1 Hertz or faster under normal operating conditions.

While executing the computer program code processor can read and or write data to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The program code executes the processes of the invention. Bus provides a communications link between each of the components in computing device .

Computing device can include any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server etc. . However it is understood that computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computing infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments computing system includes two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. Further while performing the processes described herein one or more computing devices on computing system can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computing system using any type of communications link. The communications link can include any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments EM system can receive device identification location information type of device information and other information from each individual device. This information can then be provided to UAS system which makes a determination of the criticality of each individual device. In embodiments UAS system can receive device information e.g. device type locations etc. from a third party source. Using this third party source information in combination with the device characteristics e.g. identifier location etc. received from EM system UAS system can then make a determination of criticality. UAS system can also determine the power consumption for power consuming devices and power supply output characteristics of power supply device. This information along with the criticality information can then be provided to EM system . EM system can then use this obtained information to generate power consuming profiles and power supply profiles. These profiles are then sent to micro grid manager which uses these profiles to determine which power consuming devices are to receive power and which power supply devices are to generate power. The information sent between micro grid manager EM system and UAS system can be sent and or processed through presence server .

As shown in devices may communicate via presence servers to provide current condition information e.g. on off state power voltage current faults service information etc. to configuration engine which may be relayed through micro grid manager . Additionally devices may receive commands e.g. SIP control messages from e.g. micro grid manager that control devices to modify their operation e.g. power consumption or or power generation .

Presence server is software a system or combination thereof that accepts stores and distributes SIP presence information from SIP entities. For example presence server is a SIP presence server that registers micro grid manager e.g. as a watcher application and devices e.g. as presentities . As such the SIP entities illustrated in can subscribe publish and acknowledge information or commands via SIP messages.

According to aspects of the invention configuration engine determines micro grids based on historical information forecast information and or current condition information . Current condition information is information received from one or more devices in the electrical grid e.g. device that describes the current state of the network. Current condition information includes for example information such loads topology information e.g. identity host network location tie line weather state on off power voltage current impedance temperature and network communication status. In embodiments configuration analysis module determines an optimal micro grid configuration based on information determined by historical analysis module and forecast analysis module . Historical analysis module analyzes historical information to determine a digest of historical information. Forecast analysis module analyzes forecast information and or the output of the historical analysis module to determine a forecast of near term conditions in the distribution grid e.g. devices and their respective power supply and or demand . Using the forecast of near term conditions determined by forecast analysis module configuration analysis module determines potential micro grids.

Still referring to in accordance with aspects of the invention micro grid manager issues SIP control messages based on the configuration information e.g. configuration information determined by configuration engine . The SIP control messages can include information such as network topology changes changes to the micro grid configuration and or changes to power generations and or consumption parameters of devices in the micro grid. For example after configuration information is determined the utility operator may review the information and initiate the configuration changes in the distribution grid. Upon initiation micro grid manager receives configuration information e.g. from configuration engine or storage device B and issues commands to the distribution grid to create or modify one or more micro grids. In embodiments micro grid manager transmits SIP control messages e.g. via presence server that control topology elements e.g. as switches fuses and sectionalizers connected to SCADA controllers to isolate some or all devices into a micro grid.

Notably illustrates an embodiment in which micro grid manager uses SIP messages to exchange information with devices and presence server . However embodiments of the invention are not limited to this example. As discussed in greater detail below embodiments may instead use MQTT messaging or any other suitable communication protocol. Further as noted above configuration engine and micro grid manager may be incorporated in a single system.

In accordance with aspects of the invention power supply devices and power consuming devices are network enabled devices that can form a home area network in which the clients e.g. power supply and power consuming devices use SIP messaging. For example home area network enabled power supply devices and power consuming devices devices can register with presence server e.g. using direct SIP registration with a SIP registrar or using a Zigbee interface via EM system . In embodiments EM system can receive criticality levels of different power consuming devices and electrical characteristics for power consuming or supply devices from UAS system .

Micro grid manager communicates with power supply power consuming devices micro grid monitoring and visualization devices EM system and or presence server using SIP messaging. The SIP messages may be communicated over an information network such as a wide area network or the Internet using e.g. HTTP or HTTPS. Additionally the SIP messages can be encrypted using secured SIP and IPSec. Micro grid manager registers with a SIP registrar e.g. presence server and subscribes to SIP notifications and messages issued by the various connected home area network devices that belong to the micro grid. By doing so micro grid manager functions as a SIP watcher of power supply devices power consuming devices and or micro grid monitoring and visualization devices .

Micro grid manager monitors and controls devices in the micro grid to ensure that power supply assigned to the micro grid provide sufficient power to supply power consuming devices that are also within the micro grid. For example based on the topology of the micro grid and current conditions e.g. current conditions information received in SIP messages issued by the devices in a micro grid such as devices micro grid manager calculates the current conditions of the monitored micro grid e.g. the actual or estimated reactive and actual power voltage current etc. . That is micro grid manager determines the power flow of the micro grid based on the current e.g. real time information provided by power supply devices and power energy consuming devices .

Based on the current conditions micro grid manager can modify the energy production of power supply increased output and or reduce the energy consumption of power consuming devices e.g. decrease the output or shut off appliances such as air conditioners to balance the supply and demand of the micro grid. In the event the supply or demand of the micro grid cannot be balanced such that the micro grid is self sufficient the micro grid manager may initiate a change in the micro grid s configuration by configuration engine shown in .

Micro grid monitoring and visualization devices are software hardware or combination thereof that gather and present information from one or more of micro grid manager power supply devices power consuming devices and presence server . For example via micro grid monitoring and visualization devices an employee of the utility operator e.g. a distribution dispatcher may use a centralized advanced monitoring visualization application to view the state of all or set of micro grids that it managed by one or more micro grid managers. Further the utility operator and or its users can ascertain the current state of micro grids through advanced visualization watcher applications which improves the situational awareness of users and utility operator.

As shown in each element in environment may act as a publisher of the information or subscriber of information. Gateways perform protocol transformation by stripping header elements from MQTT messages or adding header elements for MQTTs. Micro grid broker exchanges messages between clients i.e. micro grid manager power supply devices power consuming devices EM system UAS system and micro grid monitoring and visualization devices to send MQTTs message and for subscribers to receive. Thus micro grid broker can store the received and routed messages based on one of a flag of transported messages that specifies the data retention requirement of the message even once the message is delivered to desired clients.

At step an EM system registers with a micro grid manager. The EM system may send identification information for the EM system to the micro grid manager such as an identifier e.g. EM system EM system Hospital etc. a serial number or any other type of identifier. The micro grid manager may store this registration information so that the micro grid can determine that future communications are being sent by a particular EM system. The EM system may also store information that the micro grid manager is now subscribed to receive information from the EM system.

At step the EM system receives registration information from one or more power consuming devices and or from one or more power supply devices. The registration information for both the power consuming device and the power supply devices may include an identifier e.g. a serial number a name etc. location e.g. a hospital a house an industrial warehouse a police station a movie theatre etc. types of devices e.g. a generator a micro turbine a wind powered turbine etc. and or any other information. The EM system may store the registration information within a database. In embodiments the information may include the age of the devices e.g. one year old five years old etc. and or any maintenance information e.g. overhauling a diesel natural gas engine on a generator replacement of a compressor being used in an air handling unit etc. . The EM system may send the registration information for the power consuming devices and the power supply devices to the micro grid manager which may also store this registration information.

At step the EM system requests criticality levels and electrical characteristics from a UAS system. The UAS system determines the criticality levels as noted above. The UAS system can store electrical characteristics of different power consuming devices such as the power requirements of the power consuming device e.g. kilowatt demand voltage current single phase 3 phase time of use e.g. load is used 24 hours a day once a week during a particular time period such as from 5 00 p.m. to 11 p.m. on weekdays etc. high energy consuming power consuming device based on power requirements e.g. any load over a threshold such as 500 kW etc. and or any other type of information. The UAS system can also store electrical characteristics of different power supply devices such as power supply specifications of the power supply device e.g. stand by power output continuous operating power output whether the power supply device is used for backup hours of operation e.g. on peak hours of operation off peak hours of operation etc. and or any other specifications.

At step the EM system receives criticality levels and electrical characteristic information from the UAS system. At step the EM system generates and or updates profiles with load profiles and power supply profiles. The EM system may automatically generate a profile based on the received electric information criticality information and the power supply information including using historical information forecast information location information etc. The profile may be configured to generate control information such as controlling when various power consuming devices and or power supply devices are to operate controlling the outputs of various power consuming devices e.g. supply temperature from a chiller and or controlling the outputs of various power supply devices e.g. power output for a generator . The load profile and the power supply profile may be generated and stored as separate profiles in the EM system.

Alternatively a load profile and or power supply profile may be updated when there is a change to the power consuming device and or power supply information. For example a load profile may be updated when a hospital adds a new chiller for air conditioning in a new wing of a hospital. Additionally or alternatively an independent power producer IPP may have added a new gas driven turbine and as such the information is sent to the EM system which can generate and or store a profile for the new gas turbine. The EM system may generate and store one or more profiles for one or more locations devices etc. Also different profiles may be used for different time periods e.g. during the week versus the weekend during the winter months versus the summer months during emergency events etc. .

At step the EM system sends the updated load profiles and the updated power supply profiles to the micro grid manager. The micro grid manager may be subscribed to receive information from the EM system based on a registration of a device. The micro grid manager may use the profiles to update the electrical state of the micro grid.

At step the EM system receives real time load information associated with one or more power consuming devices that are registered with the EM system. The real time load information includes the power usage requirements by one or more power consuming devices at the current time or within a time period of the current time. For example if the current time is 10 00 a.m. then the EM system receives the load information at 10 00 a.m. or within a time period from the current time e.g. 10 00 01 a.m. 10 00 05 a.m. etc. . The EM system uses the real time load information to update one or more load profiles stored by the EM system. The real time information may be sent automatically by the power consuming device or the EM system may request the information from the power consuming devices e.g. sending messages pings etc. .

At step the EM system receives real time power supply information associated with one or more power supply devices that are registered with the EM system. The real time power supply information includes the power generation by one or more power supply devices. The EM system uses the real time power supply information to update one or more power supply profiles stored by the EM system. The real time information may be sent automatically by the power supply device or the EM system may request the information from the power supply devices e.g. sending messages pings etc. .

At step the EM system sends the real time load profile and the real time power supply profile to the micro grid manager. In embodiments the real time load profile and the real time power supply profile can be sent at the same time or approximately the same time e.g. within one second five seconds 20 seconds etc. to the micro grid manager.

At step the EM system initiates a request. The request may be an enablement request which may be a request by a user of the EM system to enable one or more of the power consuming devices to receive power via the micro grid manager. Alternatively the request may be a request to add a power supply device to the micro grid. The micro grid manager may receive the request and use the request to determine control information used by the EM system to control power consuming devices and or power supply devices.

At step the EM system receives control information from the micro grid manager. The control information may instruct the EM system to use a particular load profile and or power supply profile that starts or stops a particular power consuming device adjust the outputs of electrical appliance e.g. increase the temperature of an air conditioner unit increase pump outputs increase or decrease a variable speed drive motor ramp up or ramp down a particular power supply device and or any other type of information that may used to control the particular power supply device.

At step a UAS system receives information about one or more different types of power consuming and or supply devices. The information may include identifier information e.g. a name a number etc. year of manufacture type of device e.g. a generator a dialysis machine a soda fountain etc. electrical characteristic information mechanical information and or any other type of information that describes the operational characteristics of the device. The UAS system can receive the information from a computing device associated with one or more different sources such as from the manufacturer of the device from a utility company associated with the grid the company operating the micro grid manager and or from any other entity that has information about the power consuming and or supply devices.

At step the UAS system determines the criticality level of each of the one or more different power consuming and or supply devices. For example the UAS system can determine the criticality level based on inputs from a user. Additionally or alternatively the UAS system can include an algorithm or any other type of method that determines the criticality level. The UAS system by way of example can use a formula which analyzes the type of device the location of the device and other information to determine the criticality level.

The UAS system may assign values to different factors and then use an analytical system to provide a value that indicates the device s criticality level. The UAS system could also provide different devices within a location with different criticality levels. For example the UAS system may assign a heart monitor a greater criticality level than a washing machine with both located at a hospital. The UAS system can also change the criticality level based on information about events such as hurricanes earthquakes terrorist attacks and or any other type of event that could cause an emergency catastrophic situation. In embodiments UAS system can change non critical levels for some devices to critical levels such as when a building e.g. a school is assigned as a shelter during an emergency event.

At step the UAS system receives device information from an EM system or from a third party source e.g. a device manufacturer . The EM system or the third party source can send information to the UAS system such as the location of the device e.g. a particular geographic location an address a type of location hospital school etc. the type of device e.g. chiller washing machine refrigerator etc. and or any other type of information.

At step the UAS system determines a criticality level and or electrical characteristics for the device. The UAS system can analyze the information sent by the EM system and assign a criticality level based on the UAS system s method of assigning criticality levels and electrical characteristics as noted above. At step the UAS system sends the criticality level and or the electrical characteristic information to the EM system. The EM system can use the criticality level information and or the electrical characteristic information to generate a load and or power supply profile as noted above which are then published e.g. sent to the micro grid manager.

At step the micro grid manager receives electric characteristics of a power consuming device. The electric characteristics may include maximum power demand voltage current impedance values and or any other type of power demand information. In embodiments the micro grid manager receives the electric characteristics within one or more load profiles that are generated by the EM system which is registered with the micro grid manager as described in which can control different power consuming devices.

The power consuming device may have one or more sensors and or other mechanisms located on the power consuming device that receives and sends the electric characteristics to the micro grid manager or the EM system. In embodiments the power consuming device may be registered with the micro grid manager or may register at the same time that the micro grid manager receives the electric characteristics of the power consuming device. The registration information may include identification information regarding the power consuming device e.g. type of device location of device etc. similar to the registration information as described in .

At step the micro grid manager receives electric characteristics of a power supply device. The electric characteristics may include whether the power supply device is on or off the maximum power for standby and continuous power generation voltage current impedance values and or any other type of electric mechanical information. In embodiments the micro grid manager receives the electric characteristics within a power supply profile of one or more power supply devices that are used by the EM system to operate the power supply devices. In embodiments the micro grid manager receives the electric characteristics directly from the EM system. The power supply device may have one or more sensors and or other mechanisms that receive and send the electric characteristics of the power supply device for the micro grid manager. In embodiments the power supply device may be registered with the micro grid manager or may register at the same time that the micro grid manager receives the electric characteristics of the power supply. The registration information may include identification information e.g. type of power supply device location of power supply device etc. regarding the power supply device similar to the registration information as described herein.

At step the micro grid manager updates the network connectivity. In embodiments the network connectivity is a relationship between the available loads and the power supply devices being used within the micro grid. The micro grid manager may update a model that includes the electric characteristics of the power consuming device and the power supply device. The information may include voltage information infrastructure of the transmission system location of each power consuming device and or power supply within the transmission system the type of transmission system being used by the micro grid and or any other type of information.

At step the micro grid manager receives real time information about the power consuming devices and or the power supply devices. The micro grid manager may receive the real time information automatically from the devices or directly from the EM system. Alternatively the micro gird manager may request real time information e.g. sending a ping or a message after a particular time period such as every second two seconds etc. from the EM system. The real time information for example includes the power usage by each power consuming device and the power supply from each power supply device.

At step the micro grid manager calculates a real time electrical state of the micro grid using the collected information. For example using the real time electric characteristics of the power consuming device and the power supply device the micro grid manager may implement linear calculations or non linear calculations e.g. Newton Raphson method to calculate power flow and power quality to determine the real time electrical state of the micro grid. In embodiments the micro grid manager may additionally or alternatively use forecast information e.g. weather and or historical information to determine the real time electrical status of the micro grid.

At step the micro grid manager receives and or processes a request to the power consuming device or power supply device. In embodiments the request may be i an enablement request for a power consuming device from an EM system ii a request from the EM system to add a power supply device to the micro grid iii a request from the EM system to stop sending power from a power supply device and or iv a request from the EM system to stop using a particular load. Based on the request in embodiments the micro grid manager selects a load profile and or a power supply profile that allows for the request for power to be granted. This may include selecting a load profile that uses a particular amount of power and or a power supply profile that provides a particular amount of power to a particular number of power consuming devices.

In embodiments the micro grid manager may also receive i a request to provide power to a power consuming device ii a request to add a power supply device and or iii a request to stop using a power supply device. Based on the request the micro grid manager can provide power for the power consuming device ramp up particular power supply devices and or provide a notice that power is not available for the power consuming device.

At step the micro grid manager validates that the electrical state can process the request. For example the micro grid manager may simulate the effects of adding and or deleting and or modifying different power consuming devices and or power supply devices to the power flow of the micro grid prior to sending any commands to initiate the request. If the simulation does not validate the request then the micro grid manager may make changes e.g. capacitor switching phase shift adjustment load transfer transformer tap adjustment etc. so that the power flow ensures that the request can be processed.

At step the micro grid manager sends control information for the power consuming device based on the validation by the micro grid manager to the EM system. For example the control information may instruct the power consuming device to operate in a particular manner. The control information may include power input instructions on outputs from the load e.g. air conditioning device can only provide conditioned air at 76 degrees Fahrenheit and or any other type of control information.

At step the micro grid manager sends control information for the power supply device. In embodiments the micro grid manager may send the control information directly to the EM system. The control information may instruct the EM system to use a particular power supply profile that ramps up power ramps down power turns on a power supply device and or turns off a power supply device.

At step the network topology is determined by analyzing which loads are connected with which power supply devices. The micro grid manager can use the network topology to analyze the types of transmission systems used to connect different power consuming devices with different power supply devices.

At step the power flow is calculated by using the network topology magnitude of power phase angles of voltage for different buses e.g. generation bus within the micro grid real and reactive power flowing through a particular type of transmission system within the micro grid and or other information. In embodiments the calculated power flow allows for the micro grid manager to determine the optimal operation of the micro grid based on the real time information about the power consuming devices and or power supply devices. The calculated power flow also allows for the micro grid manager to plan for future expansion of power systems. In embodiments the power flow calculation may be performed by using logic associated with the Newton Raphson method the Gauss Seidel method the Fast decoupled load flow method other non linear analysis method and or any other linear analysis methods known to those of skill in the art.

At step the micro grid manager determines if there are any issues with the power flow. If there no issues with the power flow at step the micro grid manager determines if any remedial actions are needed to ensure reliability and sustainability in the micro grid. If other actions are needed at step the micro grid manager prepares enrollment requests and signal controls to ensure that the micro grid is reliable and sustainable. The changes made to the real time micro grid electrical state are stored by the micro grid manager at step . If other actions are not needed then the micro grid manager stores the micro grid electrical state without any changes at step .

If there is an issue with the power flow at step then the micro grid manager at step automatically identifies any remedial actions to solve the power flow issue. These actions may be e.g. capacitor switching phase shift adjustment load transfer transformer tap adjustment etc. At step the micro grid manager simulates the remedial actions and then sends the remedial actions e.g. capacitor switching phase shift adjustment load transfer transformer tap adjustment etc. to the micro grid manager to calculate the network topology. The recalculated network topology is then used to determine a power flow that allows for the micro grid to provide the power for the power consuming devices in the micro grid.

As step the micro grid manager determines whether the request is associated with a critical power consuming device. For example the micro grid manager can determine whether the enablement request received from the EM system is associated with a critical load profile. In embodiments the micro grid manager can also determine whether the start request is from a critical power consuming device itself.

If the request is associated with a critical power consuming device then the micro grid manager determines at step whether there is enough power being generated by power supply device s to provide power for the critical power consuming device. If there is enough power at step the micro grid manager accepts the request. If there is not enough power being generated at step the micro grid manager determines whether there is enough reserve power to provide the power for the critical power consuming device. If there is enough reserve power then at step the micro grid manager ramps up the power supply from reserve power supply devices to provide power to the critical power consuming devices. The process then returns to the micro grid manager at step . If there is not enough reserve power at step the micro grid manager makes changes to other power consuming devices that have a lower priority than the power consuming device requesting the power. For example the micro grid manager can divert power from a non critical device to a critical device. After validating that the request relates to a critical load profile or a device if there is no sufficient power reserve at step the micro grid manager will both initiate a change at step and accept the request from the critical device at step . Even thought there is a lack of generation output and reserve initiating the change will divert power from the non critical power consuming device to the critical power consuming device. This can allow the micro grid manager to accept the request from the critical power consuming device without impacting the reliability of the network.

At step the micro grid manager places the request for critical power consuming device or the requirement for a non critical power consuming device that has been stopped within a queue of requests. At step the micro grid manager determines whether there is power being generated that can provide power for the power consuming device. If so at step the critical power consuming device or the non critical power consuming device is provided with power.

If there is not enough generated power at step the micro grid manager determines if there is enough reserve power. If so at step the micro grid manager ramps up the reserve power supply devices so that enough power is generated to meet the demands of the critical non critical power consuming device. If there is not enough reserve power at step the micro grid manager can place the power request for the critical and or non critical power consuming device back into the queue or alternatively the micro grid manager can send a message denying the request. If the micro grid manager is placing a request for power from a non critical power consuming device into a queue of power requests the micro grid manager may simultaneously accept a critical power consuming device request for power and send instructions so that the critical power consuming device receives the power.

If at step the request is associated with a non critical power consuming at step the micro manager places the request in a queue of requests for power. The request for power is then determined based on sufficient generation output at step and or sufficient generation reserve at step .

If the request is to stop providing power from a power supply device at step the micro grid manager determines whether there is sufficient generation reserve. If there is sufficient generation reserve at step the micro grid manager generates control signals to ramp up power supply from other power supply devices. This also allows the micro grid manager to continue to provide power to power consuming devices that were receiving power from a previously non operating power supply device. In embodiments the ramping up of power may be sent as an instruction to an EM system to ramp up power supply devices managed by the EM system. In embodiments the micro grid may directly ramp up power for a power supply device.

If there is not sufficient generation reserve at step the micro manager determines whether a critical or non critical power consuming device is being powered. If a non critical power consuming device is being powered at step in embodiments the micro manager switches to a load profile that uses less power at step . The load profile can be implemented by the EM system to control different power consuming devices. In embodiments the micro manager makes the decision to stop sending power to the non critical power consuming device and generates control information that is used to control different power consuming devices.

If a critical power consuming device is being powered at step a warning message is generated for users who are using the critical power consuming device. The warning message may be sent via the EM system and may indicate that there is a potential for loss of power to the critical power consuming device. The warning signal may also trigger a signal to ramp up power to other power supply devices that are available at step . In embodiments the micro manager can place a stop request in a queue to non critical devices in order to ensure sustainability to the critical devices.

At step the micro grid manager estimates and updates the electrical state of the micro grid by using any changes based on the requests to enable a power consuming device to add a power supply device and or to stop providing power from a power supply device. The micro grid manager may use linear or non linear calculations to make the estimations for the updated electrical state.

At step the micro grid manager simulates the activity within the micro grid based on the updated electrical state of the micro grid. The simulation determines whether the power flow and quality analysis provides power to the updated micro grid as well as maintaining the reliability and sustainability of the micro grid.

If the simulation results determine that the electrical state of the micro grid can provide the power for the loads at step in embodiments the micro grid manager can send control information for the power consuming device and the power supply device to the EM system at step . The EM system uses the instructions in the control information to select which profiles stored by the EM system are to be used to control the power consuming device and or the power supply device. In embodiments the micro grid manager can send the control information directly to the device. The control information can instruct the devices on how to operate according to the control information.

If the simulation results determine that the micro grid cannot provide the power without ensuring the reliability and or sustainability of the micro grid at step the micro grid manager adds additional constraints to the estimated electric state of the micro grid to apply changes by returning to step . The additional constraints may include capacitor switching phase shift adjustment load transfer transformer tap adjustment etc. Once the simulation ensures the reliability and sustainability of the micro grid the control information is then sent to the EM system.

By way of a non limiting example a critical care user has newly installed life support equipment e.g. a dialysis machine that needs to be powered on at all times. The life support equipment sends its power requirements to an EM system. The EM system may generate a life support LS load profile that is assigned a critical priority and a life support equipment energy profile. The EM system receives the critical priority and electrical characteristics of the life support system from a UAS system. The EM system sends the load profile to a micro grid manager which updates the micro grid electrical connectivity model with the minimal load profile that the micro grid must power at all times to the life support equipment. The micro grid manager verifies whether there is sufficient generation output and reserve available within the micro grid to accommodate the updated minimal load profile. With sufficient generation output and reserve available the micro grid manager provides power to the life support equipment. When there is not sufficient generation the micro grid manager stops providing power to non critical power consuming devices and diverts that power to fulfill power requirements defined within the load profile for the life support equipment.

By way of another non limiting example a user requests power for non critical devices e.g. a television a DVD player etc. . The EM system may generate a load profile for the non critical devices and sends the load profile to the micro grid manager. The EM system receives the critical priority and electrical characteristics of the non critical device from a UAS system in order to generate the load profile. The micro grid manager receives the load profile and processes the request by analyzing the power supply devices that are monitored and controlled by the micro grid manager. The micro grid manager may determine that there is generation output and reserve that is above a threshold that allows for the micro grid manager to provide power based on the information in the load profile. Alternatively the micro grid manager may determine that the generation output and reserve is insufficient to ensure power for the non critical devices and also to maintain the reliability of the micro grid. In the latter scenarios the micro grid manager denies the request and sends a message to the user of the non critical devices that power is currently unavailable.

By way of another non limiting example a user installs a new power supply device e.g. distributed generation systems that use a micro turbine a generator etc. at their location. The new power supply device can provide additional power to the micro grid. Using the EM system the user creates a power supply profile that includes the electrical characteristics e.g. power output of the new generation equipment. The EM system receives the electrical characteristics of the power supply device from a UAS system. The power supply profile may also include information about other power supply devices at the user s location. The EM system may publish and send the power supply profile to the micro grid manager. The micro grid manager may use the power supply profile to update the electrical network connectivity model with the information regarding the new power supply device. The micro grid manager uses the power supply profile to monitor and control the new power supply device. Further the micro grid manager may use the new power supply profile to provide power requirements based on load profiles stored by the micro grid manager while still ensuring the overall power quality reliability and sustainability of the micro grid.

In embodiments a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create maintain deploy support etc. the computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. These users may be for example any business that uses technology. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

