---

title: Data object extensibility
abstract: A system for creating a custom field type comprises an input interface, a processor, and an output interface. The input interface is configured to receive an indication to create a custom field type. The processor is configured to validate a parameter of the custom field type. The output interface is configured to provide the custom field type for creating a custom field of a custom object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600136&OS=09600136&RS=09600136
owner: Workday, Inc.
number: 09600136
owner_city: Pleasanton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130311
---
In an object based database system software objects correspond to real life entities. For example a worker object comprises information describing a worker e.g. worker name title salary etc. and relationships to other business objects e.g. supervisors subordinates business locations etc. . A developer designing the object based database system can preload the system with a set of objects representing common business entities in order to cover the basic needs of a typical business. However many businesses have special circumstances which cannot be addressed using the available objects or configurations of the objects.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

A system for creating a custom field type comprises an input interface configured to receive an indication to create a custom field type a processor configured to validate a parameter of the custom field type and an output interface configured to provide the custom field type for creating a custom field of a custom object. The system for creating a custom field type additionally comprises a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions.

A system for data object extensibility comprises an object based database system comprising a set of data objects. A data object comprises attributes e.g. data describing the object relations e.g. connections to other data objects and methods e.g. software for operating on the attributes and relations . A database system manager may decide it is necessary to extend an object for instance to add new attributes to a worker object if it is determined necessary to store new data describing the worker. For example a company that requires its employees to have their fingerprints on file would want to store as part of a worker object information describing when a fingerprint was taken when it was submitted to a national fingerprint database what the results were etc. A company requiring a security clearance would want to store information describing when the clearance was applied for what the results were what level of clearance an employee has etc. The company can add this information by creating a new object that extends the worker object and has associated with it the data fields desired.

In some embodiments in order to make data object extensibility as flexible and as powerful as possible a new object is created using not only the existing data types but also using custom data types created specifically for the new object. Custom data types can include numeric data types with user defined range and precision a text data type with user defined length or a list data type with user defined list elements. A list data type will allow a customer to specify a set of values for the field that can be chosen between. For example a list type describing an employee security clearance might give a choice of No Clearance Confidential Secret or Top Secret. A custom data type creator allows a custom data type to be created validates the custom data type and provides the custom data type to the custom object creator.

Database system administrator comprises a database system administrator administrating database system . In some embodiments database system administrator comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In some embodiments administrating database system comprises preparing configuring or modifying database system as desired by database system users e.g. database system user . In some embodiments database system administrator configures and modifies database system in ways not available to database system user . In some embodiments database system administrator extends objects of database system . In some embodiments database system administrator creates custom objects for database system . In some embodiments database system administrator creates custom fields for database system . Database system user comprises a database user accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments database system user comprises a user who uses a user interface e.g. a keyboard a touch screen a display etc. to interact with database system . In various embodiments the user interface is associated with a desktop computer a laptop computer a local terminal or any other appropriate system with a user interface. In some embodiments database system user comprises an employee at a company purchasing database system services. In various embodiments there are 1 2 4 13 22 115 or any other appropriate number of database system users accessing database services on database system . In some embodiments each database system user only has access to their own data stored on database system and is able to utilize database system as though they are the sole database system user. In some embodiments database system user configures services on database system . In some embodiments the ability of database system user to configure database system is limited compared with that of database system administrator . In some embodiments a database system user e.g. database system user comprises a person accessing database system via a user interface e.g. a web page. In some embodiments a database system user comprises an automated system accessing database system via a machine interface e.g. a public application programming interface API .

In some embodiments objects can inherit from one another. When a child object inherits from a parent object it takes on the definition of the parent object. The definition of the child object can then be extended by adding or overwriting methods attributes or relations. In some embodiments objects are defined as part of software sold by a system vendor and maintained by a database system administrator e.g. database system administrator of . In some embodiments a system administrator can create new objects as desired in order to customize and or extend the software sold by the system vendor.

If it is determined in that the parameter comprises a text parameter control passes to . In it is determined whether there are restrictions on the text. In various embodiments restrictions on the text comprise restrictions on the text length restrictions on the text character set e.g. only alphanumeric characters etc. or any other appropriate restrictions on the text. If it is determined that there are not restrictions on the text control passes to . If it is determined that there are restrictions on the text control passes to . In it is determined whether the parameter meets the restrictions. If it is determined in that the parameter meets the restrictions control passes to . If it is determined in that the parameter does not meet the restrictions control passes to . In the custom field type is rejected. The process then ends.

In it is determined whether there are more parameters. If it is determined that there are more parameters control passes to . If it is determined that there are not more parameters control passes to . In the custom field type is validated and the process ends.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

