---

title: Folder creation application
abstract: The present disclosure is directed to a system and a method to facilitate the creation of folders that may include a variety of content based upon a check-in at an event. In one or more implementations, a server may be configured to create one or more folders automatically when a user checks into an event via a mobile electronic device. The server is also configured to cause at least one tag to be associated with the folder to define the event. The server can also receive content from the mobile electronic device. Upon receiving the content, the content is associated with the folder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569451&OS=09569451&RS=09569451
owner: Crowdshifter, LLC
number: 09569451
owner_city: Papillion
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130503
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 641 971 entitled FOLDER CREATION APPLICATION filed on May 3 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Application software an app is computer software designed to assist a user in performing one or more specific tasks. In implementations application software includes but is not limited to enterprise software mobile application software graphics software media players or the like.

Techniques are described that facilitate the creation of folders that may include a variety of content based upon a check in at an event. In one or more implementations a server may be configured to create one or more folders automatically when a user checks into an event via a mobile electronic device. The server is also configured to cause at least one tag to be associated with the folder to define the event. The server can also receive content from the mobile electronic device. Upon receiving the content the content is associated with the folder.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Tags are a type of meta information e.g. metadata that describe some aspect of content such as a photograph an email a video a document and so forth. The use of tags has gained wide popularity due to the growth of social networking photography sharing and bookmarking websites. These websites allow users to create and manage tags that categorize content using keywords. Increasingly tags may include more information than traditional non hierarchical keywords or terms. For example tags may capture knowledge in the form of descriptions categorizations relationships classifications semantics comments notes annotations hyperlinks or references. Tags may be combined into tag profiles that reference the content resources that reside in distributed storage repositories.

Accordingly techniques are described that facilitate the creation of folders that may include a variety of content based upon a check in at an event. In one or more implementations a server may be configured to create one or more folders automatically when a user checks into an event via a mobile electronic device. The server is also configured to cause at least one tag to be associated with the folder to define the event. The server can also receive content from the mobile electronic device. Upon receiving the content the content is associated with the folder.

The server may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the server may be configured as one or more server computers that are capable of communicating over a wired or wireless network . The mobile electronic device may also be configured in a variety of ways. For example the mobile electronic device may be configured as a mobile phone e.g. a smart phone a cell phone etc. a portable computing device and so forth that is capable of communicating over a wireless network. Additionally although one mobile electronic device is illustrated it is understood that the server may provide the functionality described herein to multiple mobile electronic devices .

The network may assume a wide variety of configurations. For example the network may comprise any of a plurality of communications standards protocols and technologies including but not limited to a 3G communications network a 4G communications network a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM environment an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a high speed downlink packet access HSDPA network a wideband code division multiple access W CDMA network a code division multiple access CDMA network a time division multiple access TDMA network Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi e.g. IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g and or IEEE 802.11n voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Wi MAX a protocol for email e.g. Internet message access protocol IMAP and or post office protocol POP environment an instant messaging e.g. extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP environment Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and or Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS and or Short Message Service SMS or any other suitable communication protocol that facilitates communication between the server and the mobile electronic device .

In the server and the mobile electronic device are illustrated as including a respective processor or a respective memory or and a respective communication module or . In the following discussion elements of the server are described with reference to . Respective elements and or reference numbers related to the mobile electronic device are shown in parentheses. Where appropriate elements of the mobile electronic device are described separately.

The processor provides processing functionality for the server mobile electronic device and may include any number of processors micro controllers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the server mobile electronic device . The processor may execute one or more software programs which implement techniques described herein. The processor is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth.

The memory is an example of tangible computer readable media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the server mobile electronic device such as the software program and code segments mentioned above or other data to instruct the processor and other elements of the server mobile electronic device to perform the steps described herein. Although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may be integral with the processor stand alone memory or a combination of both. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth.

The communication module provides functionality to enable the server mobile electronic device to communicate with one or more networks depicted in as network . In various implementations the communication module may be representative of a variety of communication components and functionality including but not limited to one or more antennas a browser a transmitter and or receiver e.g. radio frequency circuitry a wireless radio data ports software interfaces and drivers networking interfaces data processing components and so forth.

The mobile electronic device further includes a location determining module configured to provide location determining functionality for the mobile electronic device . For instance location determining functionality may be employed to provide approximate location data of the device . In implementations the location determining module may comprise a receiver that is configured to receive signals from one or more position transmitting sources. In embodiments the location determining module may be a global positioning system GPS receiver operable to receive navigational signals from GPS satellites and to calculate the approximate location of the mobile electronic device as a function of the signals.

The one or more networks may be representative of a variety of different communication pathways and network connections which may be employed individually or in combinations to communicate among the components of the environment . Thus the one or more networks may be representative of communication pathways achieved using a single network or multiple networks. Further the one or more networks are representative of a variety of different types of networks and connections that are contemplated including but not limited to the Internet an intranet a satellite network a cellular network a mobile data network wired and or wireless connections and so forth.

Examples of wireless networks include but are not limited to networks configured for communications according to one or more standard of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE such as 802.11 or 802.16 Wi Max standards Wi Fi standards promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance Bluetooth standards promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so on. Wired communications are also contemplated such as through universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth.

As shown in the mobile electronic device includes a touch sensitive display which can be implemented using a liquid crystal display an organic light emitting diode display or the like. In some embodiments the touch sensitive display may include a touch panel . The touch panel may be but is not limited to a capacitive touch panel a resistive touch panel an infrared touch panel combinations thereof and the like. Thus the display may be configured to receive input from a user and display information to the user of the mobile electronic device . For example the display displays visual output to the user. The visual output may include graphics text icons video interactive fields configured to receive input from a user and any combination thereof collectively termed graphics . In some embodiments some or all of the visual output may correspond to user interface objects further details of which are described below.

The display is communicatively coupled to a display controller that is configured to receive and or transmit electrical signals to the touch sensitive display . In an implementation the touch panel includes a sensor an array of sensors or the like configured to accept input from a user based upon haptic and or tactile contact. The touch panel in combination with the display controller along with any associated modules and or sets of computer readable instructions in memory detects a point of contact or points of contact as well as any movement or breaking of the contact on the touch panel and converts the detected contact e.g. a finger of the user a stylus etc. into electrical signals representing interactions with user interface objects e.g. buttons custom views icons web pages images web page links etc. that are displayed through the display . The mobile electronic device may further include one or more input output I O devices e.g. a keypad buttons a wireless input device a thumbwheel input device a trackstick input device and so on . The I O devices may include one or more audio I O devices such as a microphone speakers and so on. Thus I O devices may include a keyboard configured to receive user input. In an implementation the keyboard may be integrated with the mobile electronic device or the keyboard may be a peripheral device that is configured to interface with the device e.g. via a USB port etc. 

The mobile electronic device of may be provided with an integrated camera that is configured to capture content such as still photographs and or video by digitally recording images using an electronic image sensor. Content captured by the camera may be stored as digital image files in memory . In embodiments the digital image files may be stored using a variety of file formats. For example digital photographs may be stored using a Joint Photography Experts Group standard JPEG file format. Other digital image file formats include Tagged Image File Format TIFF Raw data formats and so on. Digital video may be stored using a Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG file format an Audio Video Interleave AVI file format a Digital Video DV file format a Windows Media Video WMV format and so forth. Exchangeable image file format Exif data may be included with digital image files to provide metadata about the image media. For example Exif data may include the date and time the image content was captured the location where the content was captured and the like. Digital image content may be displayed by display and or transmitted to other devices via the one or more networks e.g. via an email or MMS text message .

The mobile electronic device is illustrated as including a user interface which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The user interface is representative of functionality to control the display of information and data to the user of the mobile electronic device via the display . In some implementations the display may not be integrated into the mobile electronic device and may instead be connected externally using universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth. The user interface may provide functionality to allow the user to interact with one or more applications of the mobile electronic device by providing inputs via the touch panel and or the I O devices . For example the user interface may cause an application programming interface API to be generated to furnish functionality to an application to configure the application for display by the display or in combination with another display. In embodiments the API may further furnish functionality to configure the application to allow the user to interact with an application by providing inputs via the touch panel and or the I O devices .

Applications may comprise software which is storable in memory and executable by the processor to perform a specific operation or group of operations to furnish specified functionality to the mobile electronic device . Example applications may include content resource management applications cellular telephone applications instant messaging applications email applications address book applications and so forth.

In the mobile electronic device is illustrated as including a metadata content module which may be implemented as a software application stored in memory and executed by the processor of the mobile electronic device . The metadata content module is representative of functionality that allows the mobile electronic device to add metadata to the content . In an implementation the module is configured to cause the mobile electronic device to generate and or assign one or more metadata tags to content accessed and or generated by the mobile electronic device .

The server may also be provided with a metadata content module which may be implemented as a software application stored in memory and executed by the processor . The metadata content module is representative of functionality that allows the server either alone or in combination with the functionality provided by the metadata content module of the mobile electronic device to associate metadata tags with the content which are utilized to define the relationship of the content for categorization purposes. In embodiments the tags assigned by the metadata content module are metadata that describe and or define a relationship aspect as more fully described below of the content in some manner that is utilized to categorize the content . The metadata e.g. tags may define the relationships in the form of descriptions categorizations classifications semantics comments notes annotations hyperlinks references and so on.

The content may be categorized based upon one or more folder structures e.g. associated with one or more folders . The folders are organized based upon a defined relationship e.g. relationship parameters defined within the tags etc. . For example content having a first relationship may be organized within a first folder . In another example content having a second relationship may be organized within a second folder . In yet another example the folders may be organized as a subset of one or more additional folders e.g. a subset of folders share a common relationship with a superset of folders . For instance the subset of folders may organize content having a defined relationship within the tags that is shared among the superset of folders e.g. a subset of content shares a common tag with a superset of content organized within the superset of folders . In an implementation the folders are stored on the server . The content may also be stored in the respective memory of the server and or the mobile electronic device . It is contemplated that the relationship may be associated with one or more events. For example the events may be but are not limited to a person a group of people a brand a product a business a business meeting a conference a concert a sporting event a camping trip prom homecoming a combination thereof or the like which is described in greater detail below with respect to the check in module.

The modules are configured to add metadata to a variety of different types of content . In an implementation the modules are configured to include tags with the respective content . As described above one or more tags may be included with content to define the relationship parameters of the content . In embodiments content can include but is not limited to user created content such as photos emails SMS MMS videos voice mail phone calls voice memos contact information and so on external content such as news weather and so on media content such as music information e.g. title and artist information video information e.g. title and artist information web sites accessed posted web content and so forth. Thus at least a portion of the content generated and or furnished by the device includes a tag that defines at least one relationship parameter to allow for categorization of the content within an appropriate folder or folders .

The metadata content module may be configured to furnish functionality to allow content to be supplied or furnished with metadata. For example the user may cause a tag to be applied to content manually using the display touch panel and or an I O device and so forth. In embodiments the metadata content module may cause the user of the mobile electronic device to be prompted e.g. user may define relationship through textual input user may define relationship through a drop down menu etc. to define a relationship for a tag to be applied to content . For example the metadata content module of a mobile electronic device may cause the processor to initiate a prompt to be displayed by the display to allow the user to define a relationship e.g. create a tag of a photograph and or video captured by the camera . In another example the metadata content module may cause the processor to initiate a prompt to be displayed by the display to allow the user to define a relationship of an e mail within an e mail client residing on the device e.g. an e mail application . In another example the metadata content module may cause the processor to initiate a prompt to be displayed by the display to allow the user to define a relationship of an audio recording of a phone conference between multiple participates. In another example the metadata content module may cause the processor to initiate a prompt to be displayed by the display to allow the user to define a relationship of a document representing minutes from e.g. recorded representation of events that transpired within an executive meeting. It is understood that other examples are possible.

The server is further illustrated as including a folder creation module which may be implemented as a software application stored in memory and executed by the processor of the server . The folder creation module is representative of functionality implemented in the server that facilitates the creation of one or more folders based upon a relationship and or a context of the content as defined by the tags . In an implementation the folder creation module is configured to cause the processor to create a folder indicative of the relationship to the content . Once the folder is created the module is configured to cause the content to be associated with the folder . The folder creation module may for example facilitate the automatic creation of folders that include content resident within the memory of the mobile electronic device e.g. photographs videos business contact information text files etc. . Thus the folder creation module is configured to cause the processor to organize content based upon the defined relationship within the proper subsets of folders see . As shown in a first folder A includes content having a relationship based upon a date. A second folder B includes content having a relationship based upon a location as well as the date. A third folder C includes content having a relationship based upon a business or event the location and the date and so forth e.g. a fourth folder D including content having a relationship with people at the location a fifth folder E that includes the content meeting the relationship requirements described above etc. . It is understood that other examples are possible. Moreover the user may manually create one or more folders utilizing the folder creation module e.g. accessing the sub routine available on the server via the device . For example the user may manually create a folder based upon an event not previously created by the module and manually direct content to the manually created folder . It is understood that one or more folders may be associated with a single user profile i.e. profile . However the user may share the folders associated with the user s profile with other users e.g. user can provide access to other individuals to allow the other individual to access the user s content . illustrates another implementation of a folder structure. For example folder E may further include discrete folders H I J. For instance folder H may include content related to the user that checked into the event and the folder I may include content related to other users that checked into the event. Folder J may include content that is related to general event information booth information folder sponsorship and the like.

As shown in the mobile electronic device also includes a check in module e.g. relationship definition module which may be implemented as a software application stored in memory and executed by the processor of the mobile electronic device . The check in module is representative of functionality configured to define one or more relationships for the content based upon an event. In an implementation a user of the device can define a relationship or check in based upon a near contemporaneous situation and or an event the user is involved with utilizing the module . As described above an event may be a person a brand a business a business meeting a conference an event i.e. a planned public or social occasion a combination thereof or the like in which the user is associated with the event e.g. person the user just met user is attending a conference user is in a board meeting etc. . In an implementation the module is configured to automatically check into events. For instance the module may be configured to automatically check into people i.e. a person s profile an event e.g. business meeting sporting event wedding locations brands and businesses at the same time which generates tags and folders along with the content at substantially the same time. For example a user may initiate the module by interfacing with a graphic representing the module via a touch input furnished over the touch panel or the like. Upon initiating the module the module is configured to cause the processor to display one or more graphics e.g. text input fields radio buttons drop down menus etc. to allow a user to define one or more relationships based upon a user s circumstances e.g. or event the user is involved with . illustrate example screenshots that may be displayed by the display . As shown in the screenshot includes graphics representing access to the user s folders as well as graphics representing the user s check in stream and so forth. The check in stream may comprise text based messages video based messages audio based messages or the like e.g. user status updates conveying check in related information. For example the check in stream is representative of near realtime access to various subsets of the user s check ins e.g. near realtime access to various subsets of relationships defined by the user via the module . In one or more implementations a check in status update module is configured to furnish the data to the mobile electronic device such that the device can display the graphics at the display .

The relationships may include but are not limited to one or more other persons one or more events one or more businesses one or more brands or the like. For example the user may check in to define a relationship based upon a phone call between the user and another participant. In another example the user may check in to a person the user met while at an event e.g. business meeting sporting event technical conference etc. . For instance the user may check in to the South by Southwest SXSW conference. In another instance the user may check in to a political event such as a political candidate meet and greet a political candidate phone conference a caucus or the like. In yet another example the user may check in to PEPSI LEVI S or the like. It is contemplated that when a user checks into a brand the user agrees to be contacted by the brand to receive discounts updates or the like. In yet another example the user may check in to Prom see . It is contemplated that the user can check in to multiple events. For instance the user may utilize the check in module to check in to at least substantially instantaneously and or automatically a person a brand an event and a location during the same check in e.g. defines multiple relationships at least substantially instantaneously and or automatically within the tags to various events . Again the user can allow access to the user s folders across other networks and platforms e.g. allow access to the folders to various users .

In some implementations the check in module may interface with a location based social networking service API e.g. FOURSQUARE GOOGLE LATITUDE FACEBOOK GOWALLA etc. to define a relationship. For example the check in module may be configured to interface with the location determining module to determine an approximate location of the mobile electronic device . Based upon the determined location the approximate location of the device is furnished to the location based social networking service to cross reference with various locations within the approximate location of the device . For example the location based social networking service may furnish a number of potential locations to the device to allow the user to select the user s location. In another implementation the check in module may also be configured to with the approximate location of the device determined by the location determining module interface with a server e.g. server third party server etc. having a database therein allowing the user to select from a pre defined set of locations and or events e.g. allow user to check in to the location and or event proximate to the device s approximate location. In another implementation the module may provide for a virtual check in. For example the module may allow the user to check in to an event online. For instance the device may present the ability to the user to check in to a hotel once the device is within a predetermined range of the hotel. Thus the user may be presented e.g. server furnishes a push notification with the ability to check in to the hotel via the check in module . Once the user has checked into the hotel the user may be presented with a unique identifier that provides access to the user s hotel room and to bypass the hotel s front desk entirely. The user s check in data may represent one or more behaviors associated with the user e.g. the user s tastes the user s likes the user s preferences etc. . This data may be collected by the server and stored in memory for future use.

Once the user defines a relationship regarding an event or checks into the event the module is configured to cause the processor to initiate one or more subroutines defined by the content metadata addition module . For example once the user defines the relationship the module can associate e.g. include and or generate tags that define the relationship with content generated and or accessible to the mobile electronic device based upon the data furnished by the check in module . Once the tag is associated with the content the content can be uploaded to the server . When the server receives the content the folder creation module is configured to cause the processor to organize the content into one or more folders based upon the relationship defined by the content s tags . In an implementation the module organizes the content into a folder based upon the relationship defined by the tag . In another implementation the module organizes the content into a folder based upon the date the content was created. In another implementation the module organizes the content into a folder based upon the people the user checked in with. In this implementation the user and the person or persons the user checked in with may exchange each other s information e.g. business contact information e mail etc. . For example a user may meet another individual at a conference and wish to exchange contact information with that individual. Thus as shown in the user may initiate the check in module to cause the exchange of the user s contact information e.g. bumping phones together which was stored in memory of the server or in memory of the device with the individual and vice versa e.g. data representing the user s contact information is furnished to the individual s device and vice versa . For example the check in module may be configured to automatically cause the exchange of contact information between one or more other individuals when the user checks in with the one or more other individuals.

In another implementation the folder creation module is configured to automatically create one or more folders in response to a user utilizing the check in module to check in to an event e.g. user checks into a person e.g. a digital profile of a person a group of people e.g. two or more digital profiles associated with a respective person a place an event a brand a business a concert a restaurant etc. . For instance upon the user checking in via the module the device furnishes an instruction to cause the folder creation module to cause the automatic creation of one or more folders in response to the check in. The folders correspond to or are associated with a digital profile e.g. an account of the user. As shown in a user profile may be stored in the server and the mobile electronic device . It is understood that the user profile stored on the server may comprise multiple discrete user profiles that are each associated with a user of the system and that the user profile stored on the mobile electronic device may comprise one or more profiles associated with a user or users of the mobile electronic device . Each check in may cause the creation of a folder corresponding to the particular event and to the user profile of the user. In this implementation the automatically created folders include one or more tags that define the folders . The tags may be automatically generated when the folders are created. Thus the user may later upload content generated during the event e.g. digital photos from Prom video from Prom etc. . It is contemplated that the folders may be shared between one or more other individuals e.g. other individuals are provided access to the folders . For instance friends of the user defined within a social networking context e.g. FACEBOOK friends etc. may be provided access to the folders to view the content uploaded to the folders or upload their own content to the automatically created folders . In another instance other individuals that checked into the same event may be provided access via the individual s mobile device to upload content generated by those individuals. Thus the newly uploaded content may be shared between e.g. accessed by other individuals that are provided access to the folders .

The exchanged data representing the content information may be stored within a respective customer relationship management module which is storable in memory and executable by the processors . The customer relationship management module is representative of functionality to convey the user specified contact information in response to one or more queries by the user.

As shown in the server includes a gamification module which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The gamification module is representative of gamification functionality to enhance non game contexts e.g. encourage users to check in frequently etc. . For example the gamification module may cause the processor to instruct the processor to initiate display of a badge upon a predetermined number of check ins with a particular event e.g. a person a business a brand etc. . In another example the gamification module may cause the processor to initiate dispersing of a coupon to the user upon the user checking into a brand or business a predetermined number of times. In an implementation each gamification item e.g. coupons badges awards etc. may be stored in memory and associated with a user s profile . It is understood that other examples are possible.

It is contemplated that a search engine may be employed such as a search engine within the server that is configured to cause the processor to initiate display of results in response to a user s query. For example a user may wish to provide a query relating to a specified relationship via the mobile electronic device . The user may provide the query through an application such as a web browser or the like. The query is furnished to the search engine . In response the search engine is configured to search an index associated with the search engine to determine content that is to be furnished in a result based listing of content that best fits the user s query. For example the search engine is configured to search an index which include the tags to determine which tags best fit the user s query. Thus the user can define a contextual relationship query to retrieve content having tags occurring within the contextual relationship query. For example the user may enter the query Jimmy Buffett Concert 2011 and the search engine is configured to return results that include content having tags defining a relationship associated with the Jimmy Buffett Concert 2011 event. It is understood that other examples are possible.

As shown in the device further includes a mobile payment module which is storable in the memory and executable by the processor . The mobile payment module furnishes mobile payment functionality to the device once the user has checked into an event. For example the user may check into a football game utilizing the check in module . Once the user checks into the event e.g. the football game the user may initiate an electronic transaction to purchase concessions. In an implementation once the user may check into the event with the user s seat assignment. Thus the folder creation module is configured to receive the user s seat assignment information and furnish this information to the vendor. This information may be provided by the module upon receiving an indication the user is initiating an electronic transaction to purchase concessions.

The server also includes a web content module which is storable in the memory and executable by the processor . In one or more implementations the module may be configured to present web e.g. Internet content i.e. video audio news etc. to one or more users based upon a user s check in history. For example the user may check in to a television show. Based upon one or more characteristics e.g. theme of the show how long the show is characters within the show actors actresses within the show etc. and or a context other people that checked into the show where the check in occurred what time the check in occurred etc. of the television show the module is configured to present other television shows at least partially related to the characteristics and or context of the television show the user checked into. However it is understood that the module is also configured to present other web content such as audio or news articles based upon the characteristics and or context of the television show. Thus the server is configured to furnish web content to a user tailored to or based upon the a user s check in behavior.

The module may also be configured to allow a user to license web content from a third party for utilization on another web site utilized by the user. For example the user may wish to receive a copyright license to allow the reproduction of web content on a web site owned and or operated by the user. Thus the module may allow for a user upon check in to the desired content to agree to a copyright license for the desired content.

In one or more implementations of the present disclosure the data collected by the server may be utilized to furnish contextual and behavioral statistics to one or more entities. For example the check in data may be utilized by one or more entities for determining how many people checked into an event. For instance the check in data may be utilized to determine how many people checked in to view a television program where the people checked in to view the television program and how long the people checked in to view the television program. Thus the check in data may be utilized to increase retention of one or more people or to garner other contextual behavioral data.

In some respects the relationship comprises a horizontal relationship with other users based upon user check ins as shown in . In other words a user check in may define a horizontal relationship with another user that has checked into the same event. As shown in each vertical arrow represents a timeline of four users Jamie Josh Kate and Jen respectively. The horizontal arrows that partially overlap one or more of vertical timelines represent check ins at events by a respective user. For example the horizontal arrow represents that Jaime Josh Kate and Jen each checked into John and Karen s wedding. Based upon the check in to John and Karen s wedding Jaime Josh Kate and Jen may be able to share content generated at the wedding with one another. In another example the horizontal arrow represents that Kate and Jen each checked into the Texans game. Based upon the check in to Texans game Kate and Jen may be able to share content generated at the Texans game with one another.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and functionality as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation for instance the modules represent executable instructions that perform specified tasks when executed on a processor such as the processors and of the server and mobile electronic device respectively of . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable media an example of which is the memory and of the server and mobile electronic device respectively of .

As shown in received content is organized within one or more folders corresponding to the event Block . In one or more implementations the module is configured to organize content into a folder based upon a relationship defined by the tag . The content may be furnished to the server from the mobile electronic device . For example the content may include but is not limited to videos audio status updates news or the like. As shown in content received from the mobile electronic device is defined within the folder corresponding to the event Block . The metadata content module is configured to include tags with the respective content . In an implementation the tag categorizes or defines the relationship of the content with the event the user checks into. Thus the module is configured to define a relationship between the content and the event based upon one or more tags .

As shown in a graphical representation conveying events is caused to be displayed at the mobile electronic device Block . illustrate example displays A B for conveying a graphical representation of one or more events that a user may check into. For example the graphical representation may comprise a graphic representing a map of locations proximate e.g. within a block within a mile within five miles etc. to a location of interest to the user e.g. locations proximate to a current location of the device location proximate to a location that the user has input etc. . The events may be displayed within the graphic as map indicators i.e. markers that convey a proximate location of the event . In one or more implementations the module is configured to determine the potential events . For example the module may determine that the event is a of potential interest based upon but not limited previous check ins such as previous check ins at related events e.g. similar food options similar entertainment options etc. other user check ins e.g. users that you have a predefined relationship with such as a relationship through one or more social media networking services and so forth. In some implementations as shown in the graphic may include a graphic that conveys information relating to a selected event . The graphic may include information conveying menu options entertainment options other users that have checked into the selected event social media directory service information content related to the selected event e.g. images video audio etc. and the like.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed invention.

