---

title: Dielectrokinetic chromatography devices
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods and devices for dielectrokinetic chromatography. As disclosed, the devices comprise microchannels having at least one perturber which produces a non-uniformity in a field spanning the width of the microchannel. The interaction of the field non-uniformity with a perturber produces a secondary flow which competes with a primary flow. By decreasing the size of the perturber the secondary flow becomes significant for particles/analytes in the nanometer-size range. Depending on the nature of a particle/analyte present in the fluid and its interaction with the primary flow and the secondary flow, the analyte may be retained or redirected. The composition of the primary flow can be varied to affect the magnitude of primary and/or secondary flows on the particles/analytes and thereby separate and concentrate it from other particles/analytes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08911606&OS=08911606&RS=08911606
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08911606
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
This application is a divisional application of utility U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 128 913 entitled DIELECTROKINETIC CHROMATOGRAPHY AND DEVICES THEREOF filed on May 29 2008 which claims priority to and the benefit of the filing of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 941 083 entitled DIELECTROKINETIC CHROMATOGRAPHY AND DEVICES THEREOF filed on May 31 2007. Both of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

The present invention generally relates to microfluidic and nanofluidic analysis of analytes. In particular the present invention relates assaying analytes based on their mobilization characteristics in applied mobilization fields.

Separation by size or mass is a fundamental analytical and preparative technique in biology medicine chemistry and industry. Conventional methods include gel electrophoresis capillary electroosmotic chromatography CEC field flow fractionation sedimentation and size exclusion chromatography SEC .

A few microfluidic and nanofluidic devices for separation and analysis of biomolecules and compounds have been developed. U.S. Pat. No. 5 427 663 discloses separating nucleic acid molecules using electric fields through an array of posts as sieving matrices. Chou et al. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science USA 1999 v. 96 13 762 disclose sorting nucleic acid molecules according to their diffusion coefficients using an electric field which propels the molecules through gaps formed by an asymmetric array of objects. Han and Craighead Science 2000 v. 288 1026 1029 disclose separations using entropic traps consisting of a series of many narrow constrictions 

Similarly various attempts to assay intact bacteria viruses in real world samples using capillary electrophoresis alone had limited success due to the relative low concentration of cells in the samples. See Armstrong et al. Analytical Chemistry 1999 v. 71 5465 and Armstrong et al. Analytical Chemistry 2001 v. 73 4551. Methods to select and or concentrate cells are needed to improve detection sensitivity in real world samples.

Dielectrophoresis on the other hand enables trapping and concentration of particulates in non uniform electric fields. For example the Washizu group in Japan used arrays of embedded electrodes to separate latex particles 100 nm and 1 m in diameter and DNA particulates purely based on dielectrophoretic effects. See Sano et al. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Transactions of Industry Applications 2002 v. 11. The Washizu group calls this technique dielectrophoretic chromatography however the separation is solely due to dielectric effects and no chromatography i.e. adsorption desorption mechanism is involved.

Lin et al. Journal of Electrostatics 1982 v. 13 257 use dielectric filtration and high gradient electric separation induced by a dielectric body e.g. ceramic beads in a uniform electric field to remove particulates in large scale industrial applications suitable for liquids with low conductivity. Suchiro et al. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Transactions of Industry Applications 2003 v. 39 1514 use two parallel plate electrodes to create non uniform electric field gradients. Se also Zhou et al. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Transactions of Industry Applications 2002 v. 2 1404.

Unfortunately devices with embedded electrodes or devices with dielectric particulates are difficult expensive and hard to manufacture reproducibly especially for microliter volume applications. In addition integration in a complex multifunctional system is challenging due to inherent band broadening effects that occur during transition from chip to other processing and or detection devices. Due to the small size of microfluidic devices localized surface modification with application specific chemical groups is extremely difficult as is the control of surface porosity. Such limitations on surface characteristics render embedded electrode based devices unsuitable for chromatographic applications and nanodielectrophoretic experiments.

Kreibik et al. Journal of Planar Chromatography 2001 v. 14 246 introduced a technique planar dielectrochromatography which uses non linear effects generated by alternating currents to pump liquids through a planar thin layer of chromatographic plate to developed distinctive spots of dyes the plate system has very low sensitivity and has limited applicability as it is not suitable for high throughput high sensitivity methods required in bioanalysis.

There is therefore a need for economical microfluidic devices and methods which are easy to fabricate and use for rapidly processing and assaying particulates in fluid samples.

The present invention provides methods and devices for assaying or processing an analyte in a fluid sample which comprises subjecting the analyte to an electrokinetic flow field and a dielectrophoretic flow field produced by at least one field non uniformity resulting from a plurality of randomly arranged perturbers in a perturber section. Moreover by judicious selection of the surface chemistry of the perturbers and by variations in the composition of the fluid a chromatographic separation dimension is superimposed on the dielectrophoretic separation effect. Lastly by using perturbers of small dimension i.e. tens of micrometers and smaller one can manipulate nanometer sized particles suspended in the fluid.

Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification to illustrate several embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

As provided herein the present invention provides methods and devices for processing and or separating analytes in a fluid using dielectrokinetic chromatography DEKC in a channel preferably a microchannel. As used herein channel refers to a structure wherein a fluid may flow and includes a capillary a conduit a strip of hydrophilic pattern on an otherwise hydrophobic surface wherein aqueous fluids are confined and the like. In some embodiments the channel is a capillary. As used herein microfluidic refers to a system or device having one or more fluidic channels conduits or chambers that are generally fabricated at the centimeters to nanometer scale. Thus the microfluidic channels or alternatively referred to herein as microchannels of the present invention generally have cross sectional dimensions ranging from about 10 nm to about 1 cm preferably about 1 mm to about 50 mm more preferably about 1 mm to about 25 mm in diameter and about 1 mm to about 100 cm preferably about 1 cm to about 75 cm more preferably about 2 cm to about 50 cm most preferably about 2 cm to about 10 cm in length.

As used herein a fluid refers to a substance that tends to flow and to conform to the outline of a container such as a liquid or a gas. Fluids include saliva mucus blood plasma urine bile breast milk semen tears water liquid beverages cooking oils organic solvents hydrocarbon oils fluorocarbon oils ionic fluids air and the like and mixtures thereof. Fluids can also exist in a thermodynamic state near the critical point as in supercritical fluids. If one desires to test a solid sample for a given analyte according to the present invention the solid sample may be made into a fluid sample using methods known in the art. For example a solid sample may be dissolved in an aqueous solution ground up or liquefied dispersed in a liquid medium melted digested and the like. Alternatively the surface of the solid sample may be tested by washing the surface with a solution such as water or a buffer and then testing the solution for the presence of the given analyte.

As used herein an analyte may be a natural or synthetic chemical or a natural or synthetic biological entity. Chemicals and biological entities e.g. biomolecules include industrial polymers powders latexes emulsions colloids environmental pollutants pesticides insecticides drugs such as cocaine and antibiotics magnetic particles high magnetic permeability particles metal ions metal ion complexes inorganic ions inorganic oxides inorganic ion complexes organometallic compounds metals including aluminum arsenic cadmium chromium selenium cobalt copper lead silver nickel and mercury and the like amino acids peptides proteins glycoproteins nucleotides nucleic acid molecules carbohydrates lipids lectins cells viruses viral particles bacteria organelles spores protozoa yeasts molds fungi pollens diatoms toxins biotoxins hormones steroids immunoglobulins antibodies supermolecular assemblies biomolecular polymers ligands catalytic particles zeolites and the like biological and chemical warfare agents agents used in explosives and the like.

As used herein separating is used interchangeably with sorting fractionating resolving collecting concentrating filtering assaying detecting measuring monitoring and analyzing . As provided herein analytes are separated by DEKC a process in which analytes are made to depart from a primary flow via a secondary flow either longitudinally thereby resulting in a modified spatial distribution of the analytes in a channel. As used herein processing includes separating and methods known in the art which are employed to manipulate modify or change a given analyte e.g. lysing or porating a cell or chemically modifying an analyte.

Specifically the present invention provides methods and devices which separate analytes based on one or more characteristics by competing a primary flow field e.g. a primary mobilization field with a secondary flow field e.g. a secondary mobilization field in a fluid channel. As used herein mobilization field refers to any force field that influences an analyte to pass through a channel or region of a channel. Mobilization fields include hydrodynamic flow fields produced by pressure differences gravity linear or centripetal acceleration electrokinetic flow fields electroosmotic flow fields magnetophoretic and thermophoretic flow fields electric fields optical fields centrifugal fields gravitational fields combinations thereof and the like.

The primary flow is the motion of analytes flow resulting from a primary flow force exerted by the primary flow field. Primary flow is generally in a direction that is substantially parallel to the boundaries of a microchannel. As used herein a primary flow force is the force on an analyte that makes it follow the primary flow. Two classes of primary flow are considered herein hydrodynamic flows which as used herein include pressure gradient capillarity inertia gravity centripetal acceleration chemical reaction and magnetically driven flows and the like and electrokinetic flows which are the superposition of electrophoretic and electroosmotic flows. The electrokinetic flows considered herein can have substantial electrophoretic and electroosmotic components or have substantially dominant electrophoretic or electroosmotic components either by the choice of channel boundaries fluid composition surface treatments surfactants dynamic coatings gels etc. as is well known in the art.

The secondary flow field retains or redirects analytes from the primary flow. The secondary flow field is produced by mechanical interactions inertial interactions entropic interactions electrostatic interactions magnetic interactions electromagnetic interactions optical interactions chemical interactions or by combinations thereof and further includes at least one field non uniformity projected or produced from patterns in the channel.

Secondary flow generally refers to the motion of an analyte resulting from its interactions with forces produced by the secondary flow field and the secondary flow force refers to the force that produces the secondary flow. The secondary flow in the present invention is produced by interactions that occur substantially throughout the cross section of the primary flow at a region or regions in the channel and are referred to as volume interactions . As used herein volume interaction refers to any force on an analyte that the analyte can experience substantially throughout the cross section of a flow channel. Thus secondary flow is the analyte motion produced by volume interactions resulting from at least one spatially non uniform field within the flow channel.

Volume interactions are different from surface interactions which occur only when an analyte is in immediate proximity to a channel boundary. As used herein surface interaction refers to any force on an analyte that it experiences in immediate proximity to the surface of the channel or a substrate in the channel. Such surface interactions include Van der Waals and other adhesive forces chemical interactions electrostatic forces within a Debye layer that is thin compared other channel dimensions steric effects and mechanical reaction forces produced when analytes are forced onto or collide with a surface and the like. Generally these surface interactions are not employed to produce a secondary flow according to the present invention. However surface interactions are employed to affect or influence the balance between the primary and secondary forces on analytes and add another separation mode to assay different particulates a sample. As provided herein the present invention combines surface interactions and volume interactions to improve the resolving power of microfluidic separations.

As used herein a field non uniformity refers to a spatial gradient in a field. As provided herein a field non uniformity is produced within the channel by a plurality of perturbers which are discrete bodies randomly packed or spaced from each other i.e. non coherent . As used herein a perturber distorts an applied flow an electric field or the action of an area or region in a channel which produces gradients in an intrinsic field e.g. the electric field within the Debye layer. Perturbers of the present invention may be made of material that is the same as or different from the material defining the microfluidic channel in which it is located. Suitable materials for the perturbers include materials that are insulative conductive semi conductive or a combination thereof. The surface chemistries and surface pore chemistries of the perturbers according to the present invention may be the same or different from the microfluidic channel in which it is located. As provided herein a perturber section refers to a section of a microfluidic channel that contains a plurality of perturbers which are randomly packed or spaced from each other. In some embodiments the perturber section may be adjacent to or in fluidic communication with a portion of a microfluidic channel that does not contain perturbers. In some embodiments the perturber section may be adjacent to or in fluidic communication with a second perturber section which may contain perturbers which are the same or different from the perturbers in the first perturber section.

As used herein the word conductivity is used to describe the ease of flow of both conduction and displacement current. It is often mathematically described as a complex number that varies with the frequency of an applied electric field. Similarly conduction is used to describe both conventional conduction and conduction of displacement currents. As used herein insulative and conductive refers to the relative conductivity of the described item with respect to the fluid. Insulative materials have relatively low conductivity and include plastics epoxies photoresists polymers silicon silica quartz glass controlled pore glass carbon and the like and combinations thereof such as thermoplastic polymers such as nylon polypropylene polyester polycarbonate and the like. Conductive materials in comparison have relatively high conductivity. Conductive materials include bulk sputtered and plated metals and semiconductors carbon nanotubes and the like.

The devices of the present invention are readily fabricated using methods known in the art including techniques conventionally used for silicon based integrated circuit fabrication embossing casting injection molding silica capillaries and the like. See e.g. Becker et al. Microelectronic Engineering 1986 v. 4 35 56 which is herein incorporated by reference. Other suitable fabrication techniques include photolithography electron beam lithography imprint lithography reactive ion etching wet etch laser ablation embossing casting injection molding and the like. See e.g. Becker et al. Microelectronic Engineering 1998 v. 8 24 28 which is herein incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments the methods and devices of the present invention employ fused silica capillaries coated with a polymer such as polyimide polytetrafluoroethylene and the like. In some embodiments the methods and devices of the present invention employ fittings such as tees unions ferrules and the like. Such capillaries and fittings are known in the art or commercially available.

The devices of the present invention may be fabricated from materials that are compatible with the conditions present in the particular application of interest. Such conditions and considerations include pH temperature application of organic solvents ionic strength pressure application of electric fields surface charge sticking properties surface treatment surface functionalization bio compatibility and the like. The materials of the devices may be chosen for their surface chemistry bulk based material chemistry geometry porosity optical properties magnetic properties mechanical properties and for their inertness to compounds to be exposed thereto and the like. Such materials include glass fused silica silicone rubber silicon ceramics polymers and the like.

In some embodiments analytes are unloaded from the device using methods known in the art including microfluidic channels at the end of a perturber section and are then be routed for further use. In particular binning channels may be employed to divert a fluid stream of interest to another perturber section a detection area for observation or visualization to a reaction area or another device for further manipulations including chemical and physical reactions and the like. In some embodiments a plurality of perturber sections which contain the same or different perturbers may be used in series or parallel or a combination thereof to process and or separate different analytes in a sample or samples. In some embodiments more than one type of perturber may be used in a given perturber section. For example mixtures of perturbers having different properties may be placed in one capillary.

Embodiments diagrammed herein show the active regions of the channels and or show only some the structural features for collecting analytes flushing cleaning elution and the like. Thus it should be noted that the devices of the present invention may further comprise multiple ports offset t structures electrodes and other microfluidic structures and means known in the art for implementing sample introduction manipulation analysis and detection. Moreover the embodiments diagrammed herein do not show comprehensively the external apparatus for providing the primary flow field and the secondary flow fields.

In some embodiments portions of the devices of the present invention are optically transparent such that optical detection methods known in the art including fluorescence detection and imaging using inverted optic microscopes may be used. In some embodiments the fluid flows and separations are monitored in real time. In some embodiments the exterior of the devices are constructed such that interfaces including capillary ports and the like known in the art may be conveniently and reliably accommodated.

In some embodiments the channels of the devices are constructed with materials and dimensions that exhibit low intrinsic fluorescence. Thus in some embodiments the substrate of the devices comprises fused silica as fused silica exhibits low intrinsic fluorescence. In some embodiments the devices comprise binning channels for post separation analysis or further manipulations.

Devices can be constructed from a sandwich of two or more substrates so that channels are bounded conduits with ports. Bonding of the substrates may be done using methods known in the art including thermal bonding of nanofluidic channels in fused silica. See e.g. Tamaki et al. Proceedings of MicroTotal Analysis Systems 2003 v. 1 681 which is herein incorporated by reference. Devices can be constructed by bonding bundles of capillaries together.

DEKC devices may be combined with other devices that employ separation methods known in the art including micro column based capillary based or on chip chromatography such as electrochromatography see Singh Analytical Chemistry 2002 v. 74 784 789 which is herein incorporated by reference micellar electrokinetic chromatography or reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography and the like as well as sample preparation methods chemical processing methods and biological methods known in the art. The DEKC devices of the present invention may be combined with other devices that are used to interface separating and or processing devices with a detection device. For example a DEKC device of the present invention may be combined with capillaries which directly interface with a mass spectrometer. Various geometries and device configurations may according to the present invention be readily designed by one skilled in the art for desired versatility and performance.

The present invention provides methods and devices for DEKC for rapidly separating concentrating and assaying analytes. In particular DEKC is a two dimensional separation method where the first dimensional separation is chromatography which separates analytes through surface interactions and the second dimensional separation is dielectrophoresis DEP which separates analytes volumetrically using field non uniformities caused by perturbers. Thus the primary flow field can be hydrostatic electrokinetic electrophoretic or a combination thereof and the secondary field is preferably a dielectrophoretic field. The electrokinetic field and the dielectrophoretic field may be applied separately or simultaneously continuously or for selected time intervals during the separation.

As disclosed herein the methods and devices for DEKC may employ fluidic channels capillaries and columns known in the art. This invention shows that fluidic channels capillaries or columns packed with particles of a given shape and size can be used for dielectrophoretic trapping since the particles themselves act as perturbers of electric field. As a result DEKC according to the present invention can be readily applied to existing columns and or instruments that are currently used for separations. In some embodiments the methods and devices for DEKC employ chromatography columns known in the art such as Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. Michrom Bioresources Inc. Oak Harbor Wash. Waters Milton Mass. New Objective Woburn Mass. and Labsmith Livermore Calif. . The dimensions of the channels capillaries and columns may be readily selected by those skilled in the art in accordance with the present invention.

Generally the devices for DEKC DEKC devices comprise perturbers bodies of a desired shape and size packed in a perturber section. The shape of the perturbers may be any desired shape such as spherical regular or irregular shaped porous or non porous with a non porous core and a porous surface tubular and the like. Perturbers according to the present invention also include structures within monolithic columns porous polymer rods and the like. In some embodiments the perturbers are porous or nonporous spheres made of methacrylate borosilicate glass or silica. The size of the perturbers may be any useful size. In some embodiments the diameter of the perturbers range from about 20 m to about 30 m. In some embodiments the diameter of the perturbers ranges from 1 7 to 1 2 of the cross sectional area of the perturber section in which they are contained. In some embodiments the perturbers in the perturber section are of the same or substantially similar sizes. In some embodiments the perturbers in the perturber section are of various sizes and or composition. In some embodiments the shape of the perturbers in the perturber section are the same or substantially similar. In some embodiments the perturbers in a perturber section are of various shapes.

The perturbers in the perturber section may be made from a wide variety of materials including silica borosilicate glass methacrylate polyacrylamide polystyrene divinylbenzene dextrose latex zirconium and aluminum oxide magnetic beads with derivatized surfaces metal based beads ceramic beads and the like. In some embodiments the perturbers are made of silica methacrylate or latex.

Electrokinetic field and the dielectrophoretic field may be induced by applying a voltage across the perturber section using a variable high voltage power supply typically a programmable power supply such as is known in the art. Under an applied voltage the perturbers in the perturber section generate multipoint electric field gradients which induce streaming or trapping of analytes present in a fluid sample. One skilled in the art may readily tune or optimize the multipoint electric field gradients by selecting of the exterior structure geometry and or chemistry of the perturbers the internal porosity of the perturbers and their electrical and or magnetic properties and the like.

As described herein perturbers in the shape of spheres were packed in a microchannel and a fluid sample having analytes was passed through the microchannel. The perturbers were borosilicate glass dry lime soda microspheres from Duke Scientific Microgenic Corporation Fremont Calif. and polystyrene microspheres from Bangs Laboratories Fishers Ind. . The analytes were fluorescently labeled carboxylate modified microspheres e.g. FLUOSPHERES obtained from Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. a division of Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. . Under an applied voltage the analytes were observed to become concentrated at a given location.

Also as described herein the spheres i.e. perturbers were packed in a capillary and a fluid sample having analytes was passed through the packed capillary. The perturbers were borosilicate glass dry lime soda microspheres from Duke Scientific Microgenic Corporation Fremont Calif. and polystyrene microspheres from Bangs Laboratories Fishers Ind. . The analytes were fluorescently labeled carboxylate modified microspheres e.g. FLUOSPHERES obtained from Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. a division of Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. or spores. Under an applied voltage the analytes were observed to become concentrated at a given location.

Traditional chromatographic formats use pressure driven flow to pass the analytes through the separation column. The parabolic profile characteristic of hydraulic flow introduces significant peak broadening 10 000 plates m and therefore diminishes resolution analytes. This problem of peak broadening may be reduced by using an electrokinetic flow field for inducing the primary flow of a fluid sample. For example in capillary electroosmotic chromatography CEC an electric field is applied across a packed capillary to generate electroosmotic transport of the mobile phase and analytes as shown in . Narrower peaks 100 000 plates m are obtained by this approach than by pressure driven flow methods since the flat electroosmotic electrokinetic flow profile yields less peak broadening.

As described herein the DEKC methods and devices may employ any mode of chromatography such as reverse phase ionic interactions affinity interactions and the like. Thus DEKC methods and devices may be used to separate macromolecular complexes nanoscale molecules and other nano to micrometer size particulates.

To demonstrate that the smaller the perturber the smaller the size of analytes one can concentrate by using dielectrophoresis a suspension of fluorescently labeled polystyrene microspheres of about 100 nm in diameter analytes FLUOSPHERES obtained from Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. a division of Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. was flowed through a microchannel with a primary electrokinetic flow field. See . The microchannel contained bumps large perturbers imprinted in the microchannel by design with about a 5 m gap between the bump surface and the top wall of the microchannel and small perturbers e.g. microspheres having diameters of about 1 m lodged on channel surfaces within the gap. Under applied voltages of about 100 V mm local rarefaction of analytes was observed as the analytes flowed around the spheres packed in the microchannel. Small analytes were not trapped by the large perturbers since the electric field gradients were not steep enough due to their size. As shown in the decrease in fluorescence intensity which is characteristic of dielectrophoretic depletion is observed at a number of locations in the microchannel and appear as dark streaks as the analytes flow from left to right. This provides evidence that the secondary flow field DEP may be induced by applied voltages falling within the ranges suitable for inducing electrokinetic flow fields. In particular the secondary flow field can be optimized by employing geometrical features to trap small size analytes. shows another separation where agglomerated clumps of analytes evidenced by fluorescently labeled microspheres become concentrated on or near the surfaces of a 900 nanometer gap between a ridge and the channel cover. The resulting flow shows depletion and concentration of about 100 nm analytes.

The strength of the dielectrophoretic effect indicates that smaller analytes can be impacted trapped or that the field magnitude is large enough to affect their motion depending on field strength and the curvature of the lodged perturbers. That is the larger the curvature the steeper the electric field gradients generated by the perturber. For optimum electrokinetic flows such rarefaction due to analyte motion affected by the field resulting in deflection at lower fields to trapping at stronger fields is not possible and the presence of rarefaction is direct evidence of nonlinear electrokinetic effects e.g. electrohydrodynamic likely to be multigradient dielectrophoresis multiple point in which gradient fields are generated i.e. dielectrophoretic effects occur . This is the first direct visual evidence of multigradient dielectrophoresis under conditions typical of CEC at the length scales disclosed herein. CEC is typically conducted in about 20 to about 300 m inner diameter capillaries of about 5 to about 50 cm lengths and about 5 to about 30 kV are applied across these capillaries so field strength varied from about 6 kV mm to about 10 V mm.

To assay analytes having small diameters such as cells e.g. spores a 2 cm long 100 m ID capillary packed with 20 m polystyrene microspheres purchased from Bangs Laboratories Fishers Ind. was employed. The small 20 m polystyrene microspheres however made visualization of the trapped analytes challenging due to the diminished size of the spaces between the perturbers where rarefaction was observed in previous experiments. Therefore a capillary was packed at high pressure 600 psi in order to tightly wedge the perturbers into the capillary after which part of the packed bed was removed as liquid was flowed through the capillary. In this way it was possible to visualize the flow of analyte particles directly following the packed bed.

Three different particles 1 semi soft organic polymer microspheres dextran based 2 rigid organic polymer microspheres polystyrene and methacrylate and 4 silicate microspheres were used as the perturbers for DEKC separations described herein. The bead sizes were selected based on ease of packing in capillaries size distribution commercial availability and cost. Those skilled in the art however may readily select a perturber size based on its suitability or its optimization for a desired analyte to be assayed. Polystyrene microspheres of 20 70 and 90 m diameters 20 m borosilicate microspheres and 70 m dry soda lime microspheres were purchased from Duke Scientific Microgenic Corporation Fremont Calif. . A kit of polystyrene microspheres of 0.5 m 1 m 45 m and 90 m diameters was purchased from Bangs Laboratories Fischer Ind. . Glass microspheres with diameters ranging from 30 m to 50 m and 105 m to 150 m were purchased from Polysciences Inc. Warrington Pa. .

Carboxylate modified microspheres e.g. FLUOSPHERES obtained from Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. a division of Invitrogen Inc. Carlsbad Calif. were employed as the perturbers in the initial study of the dielectrophoretic effects. The carboxylate modified microspheres are latex based spheres that have carboxylated surfaces and are derivatized with a yellow green fluorescent dye. Packings of 100 nm 500 nm 1 m and 2 m carboxylate modified microspheres were employed. Before use the microspheres were diluted 1 1000 in a running solution DI water with pH adjusted to 8.0 using 10 mM NaOH and 0.1 vol PLURONIC BASF Chemicals surfactant a copolymer of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide .

Microspheres of 20 m to 100 m were packed in polytetrafluoroethylene coated fused silica capillaries with 360 m outer diameter OD and inner diameters ID ranging from 75 m to 150 m using the procedure described in detail by Chirica et al. Electrophoresis 2000 v. 22 56 which is herein incorporated by reference .

Two challenges were overcome with two modifications to the Chirica et al. method. First the polytetrafluoroethylene coated fused capillaries are extremely fragile therefore to prevent breakage they were not sonicated during packing. Second secondary effects that might occur as nanometer sized analytes are passed through the irregular structure of the frit needed to be eliminated therefore a new polyetheretherketone PEEK thermoplastic fitting in which the microspheres are retained within the capillary by polyether membranes Spectrum Laboratories Rancho Domingues Calif. fixed in between two sealing surfaces was designed and used. schematically shows a first embodiment of the PEEK fitting. The capillary is firmly mounted against one side of the PEEK fitting while the other side is connected to a second capillary tubing which allows liquid flow towards waste or to a diction device. During packing and operation the fitting effectively immobilizes microspheres perturbers with diameters larger than the opening of the membrane while allowing smaller analytes to pass through This fitting addresses the specific experimental requirements of manipulating particulates in the form of analytes biological analytes such as cells spores viruses macromolecular complexes and perturbers in capillary micrometer size format with essentially no retention or non specific interactions and minimal band broadening. The size of the concentrated plug can thus be preserved during routing towards other modules for further processing detection etc.

The internal volume of the second embodiment of the PEEK cartridge depicted in is defined by a sandwich of polyester membranes Spectrum Laboratories Rancho Dominguez Calif. mounted firmly between one flat bottom assembly and the main body. The variable internal packing volumes 1 100 l were readily packed against the first mounted membrane using a laboratory vacuum line 20 in. Hg vacuum . The perturbers packed in the PEEK cartridge gives well over 2 000 points which provide steep electric field gradients when a voltage is applied to the cartridge thereby providing a substantial increase in sample capacity and the size of analytes that can be manipulated using electrokinetic and DEP field gradients.

Rapid packing less than about 2 minutes ensured homogeneous beds without voids or channeling thereby minimizing redistribution of the perturbers and improving the lifetime of the PEEK cartridge. At a vacuum of 20 in. of Hg no bed deformation occurred which is of particular significance when packing compressible gel perturbers. The second membrane and the second flat bottom assembly were then mounted. The two membranes confined the perturbers while allowing liquid to flow through the bed. In addition the PEEK cartridge was easily emptied and refilled with desired packing thereby substantially reducing cost. The PEEK fittings and three way microvalves Sandia National Laboratories Livermore Calif. enable direct connection of the PEEK cartridge to a microliter size exclusion chromatography l SEC cartridge and to a 50 m inner diameter ID 360 m outer diameter OD polyimide coated fused silica capillaries Polymicro Technologies Phoenix Ariz. . The direct connection ensures zero dead volume within the cartridge and interconnects.

In the DEKC experiments herein a glass syringe Hamilton Reno Nev. was mounted on a pump Cole Palmer Vernon Hills Ill. and connected it to a pressure transducer and then to the PEEK cartridge 1.5 mm dia. 50 mm long packed with perturbers. The manipulation of cells and analytes were observed and recorded using a fluorescence inverted microscope light source and video camera in the setup depicted in . Methods and devices known in the art may be used for image processing and collection. The absorbance of the fluid eluted from the PEEK cartridge was analyzed using a commercially available UV detector with capillary flow cell. After each use the PEEK cartridge was cleaned and re conditioned.

Generally the voltage applied to the PEEK cartridge ranged from about 2000 to about 4000 V which resulted in local rarefaction of analytes in the space between the perturbers e.g. microspheres the analytes were concentrated at or near the surfaces of the microspheres at points of steep field gradients.

The sample was continuously supplied to the DEP device using a Hamilton syringe Hamilton Reno Nev. connected to a Cole Parmer syringe pump Cole Parmer Vernon Hills Ill. . Other methods and devices for providing a suitable hydrodynamic flow known in the art may be readily implemented by those skilled in the art.

Aside from the non uniform field generation and the nature of the analytes the composition of the suspending medium has an impact on analyte movement due to DEP flow fields. As stated in the Clausius Mossotti factor alteration of conductivity and permittivity of the suspending medium can be used to optimize the DEP flow fields and enhance selectivity in discriminating between different analytes. Higher conductivity of the solutions in which the perturbers are suspended cannot only diminish the DEP flow fields but change the direction of the field forces from positive to negative. In fact a significant variation in the magnitude of DEP flow fields was observed between a DI solution and a dilute NaOH pH 8.5 solution.

As provided herein various chromatographic media were examined for their suitability in DEKC separations of nanoscale analytes nanoDEKC . The chromatographic media examined is set forth in Table 1 as follows 

To characterize the chromatographic media packed in the PEEK cartridges described herein flow rate dependence on applied pressure was monitored using methods known in the art. is a graph of the results.

Where a chromatographic medium behaves as an incompressible porous solid the flow rate has a linear dependence to pressure which is consistent with Darcy s law 

SEC columns using each of the resins listed and described in Table 1 where prepared and tested. Based on the linear plots in the proportionality constants for these resins were determined to be TSK SEC about 972 10mm BioGel P6 about 563 10mm Sephadex G 25 about 215 10mm ToyoPearl 40S about 430 10mm ToyoPearl 40F about 205 10mmand ToyoPearl 40C about 153 10mm. Above about 70 psi a change in permeability was observed for BioGel P6 ToyoPearl 40S and ToyoPearl 40F a slight increase in flow rate caused an exponential increase in pressure. Data points corresponding to the exponential increase in pressure are marked with shaded data points in . Thus about 70 psi is the threshold value over which substantial compression of the whole packed bed occurs for BioGel P6 ToyoPearl 40S and ToyoPearl 40F.

For soft gels and or small diameter highly porous perturbers the optimum operating domain is limited to lower flow rates. shows that all the chromatographic media investigated with the exception of TSK SEC follow the ideal flow rate to pressure dependence at pressures smaller than about 60 psi and flow rates less than about 200 l min. In the linear regime the chromatographic media exhibited reproducible behavior in measurements of the slopes of pressure flow rate curves. The pressure readings for consecutive pressurization experiments varied by about 1 relative standard deviation for the same PEEK cartridge and less than about 5 relative standard deviation between different PEEK cartridges.

As shown in the TSK SEC chromatographic medium was found to be very different to that of the previously examined chromatographic media. Silica based TSK SEC microspheres have a smaller diameter 10 m and form a considerably less permeable bed i.e. pressure increases greatly with small increase in flow rate. See . The incompressibility of silica TSK SEC microspheres offers the advantage of extending the optimum operating range to higher pressures. However low pressure operation is not only suitable for the majority of microfluidic systems but also preferred in portable systems due to the large size of high pressure pumps. High backpressures associated with small diameter silica packing limits the column length. We were able to vacuum pack and test 1.5 mm diameter cartridges of only 15 mm long the reduction in total packing volume significantly reduced the sample capacity of the column. In addition silica based packings are less stable at pH 9.0 the pH of the desired exchange buffer effective fluorescamine labeling and reproducible CGE separations occur at pH 9.0 .

The comparison between the experimental value for the proportionality constant calculated from the slopes of the linear regime in the pressure flow rate curves and the theoretical value calculated for packed beds of solid spheres provides information on the structure of the packed bed during operation. For example the experimental value of the proportionality constant K in the case of PEEK cartridges packed with the soft resin Sephadex G 25 was estimated to 215 10mm. Using Kozeny Carmen equation commonly used for packed beds of spheres the theoretical value of the proportionality constant K is calculated as follows 

The chromatographic media in Table 1 were used successfully in the cartridge embodiment illustrated in for the on line hydrokinetic separation of intact T2 bacteriophages from low molecular weight components such as salts and peptides in fluid samples. Since the PEEK cartridges incorporate replaceable membranes one may readily employ a membrane with a desired pore size to be used in conjunction with a selected chromatographic medium. For example perturbers of about 30 m diameter or higher and a nylon membrane having about a 10 m mesh size Spectrum Laboratories Rancho Dominguez Calif. was used herein. One skilled in the art may readily select a membrane having characteristics suitable for a given application. For example for assaying viruses such as bacteriophages a membrane having a pore size which allows viruses and viral components but not bacteria to pass through to the chromatographic media may be readily selected by those skilled in the art.

As various suspension media will exhibit different ionic strengths pH values and chemistries which have an effect on adsorption of analytes on chromatographic media the following experiments were conducted to demonstrate the compatibility of our system with chromatographic separations of bio particulates.

Selective adsorption of T even bacteriophages determined by the composition their coat proteins was examined with various chromatographic media. The challenge was to determine the interaction chemistry that allows for rapid kinetics for complete retention as well as complete release of microorganisms when conditions are changed. A specific requirement for this application is that the loading and elution solvents need to be compatible with the organisms more specifically they should not cause premature lysing and or aggregation of the microorganisms

The retention and release of T2 and T4 bacteriophages by hydrophobic chromatographic media having ethyl butyl hexyl or phenyl moieties grafted on polymer supports of 50 m diameter was tested. Since aqueous solutions of T4 absorb UV radiation we were able to monitor the breakthrough curve for retention and release. Incomplete retention of T4 bacteriophages by polymeric based materials was observed. This is probably due to the reduced surface coverage of the polymeric methacrylate material with highly hydrophobic moieties. By overlapping the dielectrophoretic dimension on the incomplete hydrophobic retention one can trap the bacteriophages near the packing which act as perturbers and therefore provide a significant increase in the retention of the bacteriophages. Meanwhile particulates that do not interact with these supports such as viruses spores with hydrophilic coat proteins are not affected by the dielectrophoretic trapping and can therefore be separated from larger size bacteriophages.

Another type of chromatographic media ToyoPearl DEAE 650S which relies on ionic interactions as the retention mechanism provided reproducible interactions between viruses and the solid support. In particular anion exchange retention of T4 viruses occurred at a pH of about 8 and low ionic strength conditions. A solution of about 10viruses ml was loaded for about 9 minutes at a flow rate of about 30 l min on a 30 l PEEK cartridge packed with anion exchange material ToyoPearl DEAE 650S. Upon addition of elution solvent 200 mM NaCl at a flow rate of about 10 l min the viruses were released from the packed bed and the corresponding absorbance was recorded. illustrates the viral peaks obtained in 4 consecutive experiments. More significantly we demonstrated that the method can be used for quantitative retention of T4 with high sample capacity. See .

Microspheres with a wide range of sizes nanometers to hundreds of microns geometries spherical and irregularly shaped porosities conductivities and surface functionalities are commercially available and can be used for dielectrokinetic chromatographic separations of micrometers and nanometer size analytes. Companies that commercialize such microspheres include Macherey Nagel River Vale N.J. Tosoh Biosciences Montgomeriville Pa. Bangs Laboratories Fishers Ind. Duke Scientific Microgenic Corporation Fremont Calif. Waters Milton Mass. Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. and the like.

Porous monoliths or sol gels which may be synthesized in situ are known in the art and may likewise be used as perturbers according to the present invention. See e.g. Svec et al. 2003 Elsevier Publisher Amsterdam.

Those skilled in the art may readily modify or select buffer compositions to optimize the field strength gradient steepness and or flow velocity and thereby result in dielectrophoretic trapping and or competitive chromatographic retention for a given application. For example the use of organic solvents in the buffer decreases conductivity while affecting chromatographic behavior salts present in the buffer can increase conductivity while enhancing hydrophobic interaction and decreasing ion exchange interaction haptenes present in the buffer have minimal effect on conductivity while significantly influencing interactions between biomolecules such as glycosyl groups with lectins immobilized perturbers and the like.

A variety of DEKC formats are contemplated herein. Specifically various chromatographic methods known in the art such as reverse phase immuno chromatography ion exchange chromatofocusing size exclusion and the like as well as operational alternatives isocratic versus gradient may be combined with DEP trapping to result in a DEKC format in accordance with the present invention. For example a microchannel may be packed with perturbers having a desired lectin surface chemistry to give a perturber section according to the present invention. Under an applied field glycosylated molecules analytes will be dielectrophoretically trapped mostly based on the size of the molecules and the lectin surface chemistry will trap and retain the analytes by affinity chromatography. In another example dielectrophoretic trapping and streaming enhances chromatographic retention on materials with surface chemistries enabling ion exchange interactions such as alkylamines etc . Chromatographic retention of dielectrophoretically trapped analytes may be readily optimized by those skilled in the art by varying the pH of the mobile phase.

In some embodiments the methods and devices of the present invention may be combined or complexed with filtration and other separation methods known in the art.

Dielectrophoresis is a phenomenon that acts on a certain volume of fluid in which the electric field gradient is high enough to affect a given particulate. Chromatography is a surface effect which relies on the direct interaction attraction between analytes and the surface of the perturbers. By combining these two orthogonal techniques techniques which act through independent mechanisms in the same setup on the same sample one can substantially improve the number of species that can be separated. For example to separate the components of a sample which contains bacteriophages viruses and molecular contaminants such as detergents urea etc one can employ particulates perturbers with 30 50 m sizes which in our setup at 50 V mm can trap bacteriophages. The chemistry of such perturbers is chosen such to cause the surface retention of the viruses while inert to the specific molecular contaminant for example hydrophobic ionic exchange or glucosaminoglycan GAG material . The sample can be passed through the capillary cartridge packed with these perturbers while voltage is applied at 50 v mm. As a result the bacteriophages are dielectrophoretically trapped while dielectrophoresis has no effect on the viral particles or sample contaminants in a setup with 40 50 m diameter perturbers. The viruses are chromatographically retained while the contaminants flow through the packed cartridge capillary un retained. To separate the bacteriophages from viruses one can vary the composition of the fluid flowing through the cartridge for example if a hydrophobic material was used one can increase the percentage of methanol to cause viral desorption. Similarly if the perturbers have surfaces which favor ion exchange interactions one can change the pH or the salt content of the fluid to desorb the viruses. In the case of GAG immobilized materials viral elution occurs at specific sulfate disaccharides. As the change in fluid composition occurs while voltage is still applied and the bacteriophages are dielectrophoretically trapped this method effectively concentrates bacteriophages and viruses while removing the contaminants.

Increased separation power is particularly needed in complex samples such as bodily fluids blood serum urine etc. . By using GAG perturbers with diameters of 20 m or lower dielectrophoresis can be used to trap viruses. One can select a specific GAG functionality to favor retention of one virus versus another. Dielectrophoresis traps both viruses and removes potential contaminants as the sample is injected in our setup. A change in the fluid composition contain specific sulfate disaccharides will elute virus one while the other s are still trapped. A similar experiment can be envisioned when using lectin immobilized perturbers to differentiate between species with different glycan structures.

In some embodiments the DEKC devices and methods disclosed herein may be used for electroporating or lysing cells and membranes. See Wang et al. Analytical Chemistry 2006 v. 78 5158 5164 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. For example lysis and electroporation may readily be achieved using the methods and devices of the present invention by increasing the applied field or by using perturbers with sharp edges to generate highly localized within about 10 nm steep electric field gradients. In these hot spots areas of steep electric field gradients electropermeation and or electrolysis of cells and or membranes is achieved during or following trapping by DEKC.

To the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the within disclosures are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments as illustrated herein but is only limited by the following claims.

