---

title: NONOate derivatives and uses thereof
abstract: 

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound. Also described are pharmaceutical formulations thereof and methods of using the same.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09024069&OS=09024069&RS=09024069
owner: Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 09024069
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 724 471 filed Nov. 9 2012. The entire teachings of the aforementioned application are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to novel NONOate derivatives and pharmaceutical formulations thereof used for increasing nitric oxide levels in a subject in need thereof.

Nitric oxide NO has recently been shown to dramatically reduce thrombocyte and fibrin aggregation adhesion and smooth muscle cell hyperplasia while promoting endothelial cell growth. NO has also been implicated as part of a cascade of interacting agents involved in a wide variety of bioregulatory processes including the physiological control of blood pressure macrophage induced cytostasis and cytotoxicity neurotransmission cancer and infectious diseases. Given that NO plays a role in such a wide variety of bioregulatory processes great effort has been expended to develop compounds capable of releasing NO.

Despite the extensive literature available on NO and nitric oxide releasing compounds there remains a need for stable nitric oxide releasing compounds.

Applicants have now discovered that certain NONOate derivatives are potent nitric oxide releasing compounds. As such they are potent in increasing NO levels in a subject in need thereof. Based on this discovery NONOate derivatives pharmaceutical compositions thereof and methods of increasing NO levels with the NONOate derivatives are disclosed herein.

R is selected from halogen CN NO C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 haloalkyl C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 haloalkoxy C O OR and OC O R. Alternatively R is selected from halogen CN C1 C4 alkyl and C1 C4 haloalkyl 

Rand R together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 8 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted by R 

Ris H OH COR halogen NRR CN C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 haloalkyl C1 C4 hydroxyalkyl C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 haloalkoxy or C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 alkyl 

Rand Rare each independently selected from H C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 haloalkyl hydroxy C1 C4 alkyl and C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 alkyl.

Another aspect of the present teachings relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent and a compound represented by the structure of formula I described above or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Still another aspect of the present teachings relates to a method for increasing NO levels in a subject in need thereof the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of any of the above described compounds or compositions.

In one aspect the subject is in need of treatment for a disease or disorder selected from a lipid related disorder hypertension fungal infection female sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction thrombosis or inhibiting platelet aggregation in a subject in need thereof.

In another aspect the subject is in need of treatment for a disease or disorder selected from diabetes elevated fasting plasma glucose insulin resistance elevated glycosylated hemoglobin levels diabetic retinopathy proliferative or non proliferative retinopathy albuminuria microalbuminuria nephropathy kidney failure neuropathy and foot ulcers.

In certain embodiments the subject may be suffering from or susceptible to developing a lipid metabolism disorder including but not limited to dyslipidemia hyperlipidemia hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia sitosterolemia familial hypercholesterolemia primary heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia primary non familial hypercholesterolemia xanthoma combined hyperlipidemia lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency tangier disease abetalipoproteinemia and fatty liver disease. In certain embodiments the hypercholesterolemia includes for example primary heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or primary non familial hypercho lesterolemia.

In another aspect the present teachings provide methods for treating and or preventing a variety of diseases or disorders associated with aging stress diabetes neurodegenerative diseases obesity cardiovascular disease blood clotting disorders inflammation and cancer.

Another aspect of the present teachings relates to the use of a compound represented by structure of Formulas I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament for increasing NO levels in a subject in need thereof.

Another aspect of the present teachings relates to a compound represented by structure of Formulas I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in increasing NO levels in a subject in need thereof.

In one embodiment the present teachings are directed to a compound represented by the structure of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In a second embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II or IIa Ris H or C1 C4 alkyl optionally substituted with 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from halogen NRR hydroxyl and C1 C4 alkoxy and Ris C1 C6 alkylene optionally substituted with 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from halogen NRR hydroxyl and C1 C4 alkoxy and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I .

In a third embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II or IIa Ris H or C1 C4 alkyl Ris C1 C6 alkylene Ris H OH C1 C4 hydroxyalkyl or C1 C4 alkoxy and Lis C1 C3 alkylene and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I .

In a fourth embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II or IIa Ris H or methyl Ris H OH or CHOH and Lis CH and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I or in the second or third embodiment.

In a sixth embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II IIa or IIb ring A is selected from aziridinyl diazirinyl diaziridinyl azetidinyl 1 2 diazetidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl dihydroimidazole dihydropyridinyl dihydropyrimidinyl tetrahydroimidazole tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl azepinyl diazepinyl azepanyl diazepanyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl and tetrazolyl. Alternatively ring A is selected from aziridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl and morpholinyl and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I .

In a seventh embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II IIa or IIb ring A is pyrrolidinyl Ris H OH C1 C4 hydroxyalkyl COR or C1 C4 alkoxy and Lis C1 C3 alkylene and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I .

In a eighth embodiment for compounds described in structural formula I II or IIb Ris H CHOH or OH and Lis CH and values and alternative values for the remainder of the variables are as described for the structure of Formula I or in the sixth or seventh embodiment.

The present teachings provide the compounds depicted by structure and or described by name in the Exemplification as well as neutral forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

The term alkyl used alone or as part of a larger moiety such as haloalkyl alkoxy haloalkoxy and the like means saturated aliphatic straight chain or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical. Unless otherwise specified an alkyl group typically has 1 4 carbon atoms i.e. C1 C4 alkyl. As used herein a C1 C4 alkyl group is means a radical having from 1 to 4 carbon atoms in a linear or branched arrangement.

An alkylene group is a saturated aliphatic branched or straight chain divalent hydrocarbon radical. Unless otherwise specified an alkylene group typically has 1 6 carbon atoms i.e. C1 C6 alkylene.

 Alkoxy means an alkyl radical attached through an oxygen linking atom represented by O alkyl. For example C1 C4 alkoxy includes methoxy ethoxy and propoxy.

The terms haloalkyl and haloalkoxy means alkyl or alkoxy as the case may be substituted with one or more halogen atoms. The term halogen means F Cl Br or I. Preferably the halogen in a haloalkyl or haloalkoxy is F.

 Heterocycloalkyl means a saturated or unsaturated non aromatic 3 8 membered ring radical optionally containing one or more double bonds. The heterocycloalkyl contains 1 to 4 heteroatoms which may be the same or different selected from N O or S. The heterocycloalkyl ring optionally contains one or more double bonds. The term heterocycloalkyl is intended to include all the possible isomeric forms. Examples of heterocycloalkyl include but are not limited to morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl dihydroimidazole dihydrofuranyl dihydropyranyl dihydropyridinyl dihydropyrimidinyl dihydrothienyl dihydrothiophenyl dihydrothiopyranyl tetrahydroimidazole tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl and tetrahydrothiopyranyl.

 Heteroaryl refers to aromatic ring groups having five to eight ring atoms selected from carbon and at least one typically 1 to 4 more typically 1 or 2 heteroatoms e.g. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur .

Examples of heteroaryl include but are not limited to imidazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl triazolyl and tetrazolyl.

An optionally substituted heterocyclic ring is substituted at any one or more substitutable ring atom which is a ring carbon or ring nitrogen atom bonded to a hydrogen.

Unless otherwise indicated suitable substituents for an alkyl alkylene and heterocyclic group include those substituents which form a stable compound of the invention without significantly adversely affecting the reactivity of the compound of the invention. Examples of substituents for alkyl alkylene and heterocyclic include halogen CN NO hydroxyl C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 haloalkyl C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 haloalkoxy C O OR OC O R and NRR wherein Ris H or C1 C4 alkyl Rand Rare each independently selected from H C1 C4 alkyl C1 C4 haloalkyl hydroxy C1 C4 alkyl and C1 C4 alkoxy C1 C4 alkyl. In certain embodiments suitable substituents include halogen hydroxyl NRR and C1 C4 alkoxy.

The present teachings also include isomers and mixtures thereof. Isomer refers to compounds that have the same composition and molecular weight but differ in physical and or chemical properties. The structural difference may be in constitution geometric isomers or in the ability to rotate the plane of polarized light stereoisomers .

Certain of the compounds described herein may exist in various stereoisomeric or tautomeric forms. Stereoisomers are compounds which differ only in their spatial arrangement. The present teachings encompass all such forms including compounds in the form of essentially pure enantiomers racemic mixtures and tautomers which includes forms not depicted structurally. When a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure without indicating stereochemistry it is understood that the name or structure encompasses all possible stereoisomers tautomers geometric isomers or a combination thereof.

When a geometric isomer is depicted by name or structure it is to be understood that the geometric isomeric purity of the named or depicted geometric isomer is at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 pure by weight. Geometric isomeric purity is determined by dividing the weight of the named or depicted geometric isomer in the mixture by the total weight of all of the geomeric isomers in the mixture.

Racemic mixture means 50 of one enantiomer and 50 of is corresponding enantiomer. The present teachings encompass all enantiomerically pure enantiomerically enriched diastereomerically pure diastereomerically enriched and racemic mixtures and diastereomeric mixtures of the compounds described herein.

Enantiomeric and diastereomeric mixtures can be resolved into their component enantiomers or stereoisomers by well known methods such as chiral phase gas chromatography chiral phase high performance liquid chromatography crystallizing the compound as a chiral salt complex or crystallizing the compound in a chiral solvent. Enantiomers and diastereomers can also be obtained from diastereomerically or enantiomerically pure intermediates reagents and catalysts by well known asymmetric synthetic methods.

When a compound is designated by a name or structure that indicates a single enantiomer unless indicated otherwise the compound is at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 optically pure also referred to as enantiomerically pure . Optical purity is the weight in the mixture of the named or depicted enantiomer divided by the total weight in the mixture of both enantiomers.

When the stereochemistry of a disclosed compound is named or depicted by structure and the named or depicted structure encompasses more than one stereoisomer e.g. as in a diastereomeric pair it is to be understood that one of the encompassed stereoisomers or any mixture of the encompassed stereoisomers are included. It is to be further understood that the stereoisomeric purity of the named or depicted stereoisomers at least 60 70 80 90 99 or 99.9 by weight. The stereoisomeric purity in this case is determined by dividing the total weight in the mixture of the stereoisomers encompassed by the name or structure by the total weight in the mixture of all of the stereoisomers.

Included in the present teachings are pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds disclosed herein. The disclosed compounds have basic amine groups and therefore can form pharmaceutically acceptable salts with pharmaceutically acceptable acid s . Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts of the compounds described herein include salts of inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic phosphoric metaphosphoric nitric and sulfuric acids and of organic acids such as acetic acid benzenesulfonic benzoic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glycolic isethionic lactic lactobionic maleic malic methanesulfonic succinic p toluenesulfonic and tartaric acids . Compounds of the present teachings with acidic groups such as carboxylic acids can form pharmaceutically acceptable salts with pharmaceutically acceptable base s . Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable basic salts include ammonium salts alkali metal salts such as sodium and potassium salts and alkaline earth metal salts such as magnesium and calcium salts . Compounds with a quaternary ammonium group also contain a counteranion such as chloride bromide iodide acetate perchlorate and the like. Other examples of such salts include hydrochlorides hydrobromides sulfates methanesulfonates nitrates maleates acetates citrates fumarates tartrates e.g. tartrates tartrates or mixtures thereof including racemic mixtures succinates benzoates and salts with amino acids such as glutamic acid.

In one embodiment the compounds described herein are useful for increasing NO levels in a subject in need thereof. A subject in need of treatment to elevate NO levels includes those with a disease or disorder selected from a lipid related disorder e.g. hypertension diabetes angina atherosclerosis and heart failure impotency e.g. female sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction fungal infection thrombosis or inhibiting platelet aggregation in a subject in need thereof.

A Lipid related disorder or lipid metabolism disorder includes for example reducing blood plasma or serum concentrations of low density lipoprotein LDL cholesterol reducing concentrations of cholesterol and cholesterol ester in the blood plasma or serum reducing blood plasma or serum concentrations of apolipoprotein B reducing blood plasma or serum concentrations of triglycerides increasing blood plasma or serum concentrations of high density lipoprotein HDL cholesterol increasing fecal excretion of cholesterol inhibiting the absorption of or reducing plasma or tissue concentration of one or more sterols or stanols preventing or treating sistoserolemia preventing or treating vascular diseases disorders and conditions including but not limited to arteriosclerosis atherosclerosis cardiovascular disease cerebrovascular disease renovascular disease mesenteric vascular disease pulmonary vascular disease ocular vascular disease and peripheral vascular disease dyslipidemia hyperlipidemia including but not limited to hypercholesterolemia hypertriglyceridemia sitosterolemia hypertension angina cardiac arrhythmias congestive heart failure stroke and fatty liver disease reducing the incidence of cardiovascular disease related events preventing or treating vascular conditions and associated thrombotic events and blood clotting disorders preventing or treating inflammation including but not limited to vascular inflammation reducing blood plasma or serum concentrations of C reactive protein preventing treating or ameliorating symptoms of Alzheimer s Disease AD or other neurodegenerative diseases regulating production or levels of at least one amyloid A peptide regulating the amount of ApoE isoform 4 in the bloodstream and or brain slowing the aging process and reducing stress related disorders preventing or treating obesity preventing or decreasing the incidence of xanthomas preventing or minimizing muscular degeneration and related side effects associated with certain HMG CoA reductase inhibitors statins preventing or treating diabetes and associated conditions preventing or treating at least one autoimmune disorder preventing or treating demyelination and associated disorders preventing or treating cancer including but not limited to cholesterol associated tumors inhibiting the expression of at least one multiple multi drug resistance gene or protein in an animal cell enhancing the effectiveness of a chemotherapeutic agent in a subject having cancer reversing a multi drug resistance phenotype exhibited by an animal cell and preventing or treating osteopenia disorders bone loss disorders .

The present teachings also provide methods for improving lipid parameters in diabetic and non diabetic patients improving glycemic control in both Type 2 diabetics and pre diabetic individuals who exhibit elevated fasting plasma glucose and or insulin resistance reducing glycosylated hemoglobin levels HbAic lowering fasting plasma glucose FPG levels reducing peak and 2 hour post prandial glucose PPG levels improving insulin sensitivity reducing insulin resistance and increasing insulin secretion. The methods are performed by administering to the patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of one or more of the compounds salts and or compositions disclosed herein.

Furthermore based on rationale that it has been shown that improved glycemic control can reduce the risk of diabetes associated morbidity and mortality as demonstrated by the DCCT Diabetes Control and Complications Trial. Diabetes. 1996 October 45 10 1289 98 DCCT EDIC Diabetes Control and Complications Trial Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and Complications Trial. Diabetes Care. 1999 January 22 1 99 111 and UKPPDS United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study. BMJ. 1995 Jan. 14 310 6972 83 8 trials amongst others the compounds salts and compositions disclosed herein can be useful for reducing the risk of diabetes associated complications including but not limited to development and progression of diabetic retinopathy development of proliferative or severe non proliferative retinopathy albuminuria microalbuminuria nephropathy kidney failure cardiovascular disease including non fatal myocardial infarction MI stroke or death from CVD neuropathy foot ulcers amputations hepatic steatosis steatohepatitis and cirrhosis.

Hypertension as used herein refers to a physiological state or syndrome in mammals typically characterized by increased peripheral vascular resistance or cardiac output or both. Clinically hypertension may optionally be indicated by blood pressure measurements equal to or greater than approximately 140 mm Hg systolic and approximately 90 mm Hg diastolic. Hypertension is further characterized in Oates Antihypertensive Agents and the Drug Therapy of Hypertension Chapter 33 Goodman and Gilman 9Edition pages 780. The term used herein includes acute and chronic hypertensive conditions.

Sexual dysfunctions can include for example sexual desire disorders erectile dysfunction sexual arousal disorders orgasmic disorders and sexual pain disorders. Female sexual dysfunction FSD refers to sexual desire interest disorders sexual arousal dysfunctions women s orgasmic dysfunctions sexual pain disorders e.g. dyspareunia and vaginismus and sexual aversion disorder. The female can be pre menopausal or menopausal. Sexual dysfunction can be caused for example by pregnancy menopause cancer pelvic surgery chronic medical illness or medications.

FSD occurs in approximately 43 of women ages 18 59 Frank et al. 2008 77 5 635 . Female sexual arousal disorder FSAD is a category of FSD that accounts for over half of these female sexual complaints. It is characterized by absent diminished sexual arousal excitement pleasure from sexual stimulation despite genital arousal or absent impaired genital sexual arousal from sexual stimulation despite subjective sexual excitement from non genital stimuli.

Fungal infections treatable with the disclosed compounds include superficial infections and deep tissue blood lung and systemic fungal infections. Examples of superficial infections include Athlete s foot Jock itch scalp and hair infection finger or toenail infection ringworm of the body skin patches or lesions thrush and candidiadis. Examples of deep tissue blood lung and systemic fungal infections include aspergillus blastomyces coccidioides cryptococcus histoplasma candida pneumocystis mucormycosis.

Thrombosis include but are not limited to ischemic stroke transient ischemic stroke myocardial infarction angina pectoris thrombosis for example restenosis arterial thrombosis coronary thrombosis heart valve thrombosis coronary stenosis stent thrombosis graft thrombosis and first and subsequent thrombotic stroke and the like thromboembolism for example pulmonary thromboembolism cerebral thromboembolism and the like thrombophlebitis thrombocytopenia bleeding disorders thrombotic occlusion and reocclusion and acute vascular events. Patients who are at risk of developing thromboembolic events may include those with a familial history of or genetically predisposed to thromboembolic disorders who have had ischemic stroke transient ischemic stroke myocardial infarction and those with unstable angina pectoris or chronic stable angina pectoris and patients with altered prostacyclin thromboxane Ahomeostasis or higher than normal thromboxane Alevels leading to increase risk for thromboembolism including patients with diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis.

Yet another embodiment of the present teachings describes methods for inhibiting platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion. Platelet adhesion refers to the contact of a platelet with a foreign surface including any artificial surface such as a medical device or instrument as well as an injured vascular surface such as collagen. Platelet adhesion does not require platelet activation. Unactivated circulating platelets will adhere to injured vascular surfaces or artificial surfaces via binding interactions between circulating von Willdebrand factor and platelet surface glycoprotein Ib IX. Platelet aggregation refers to the binding of one or more platelets to each other. Platelet aggregation is commonly referred to in the context of generalized atherosclerosis not with respect to platelet adhesion on vasculature damaged as a result of physical injury during a medical procedure. Platelet aggregation requires platelet activation which depends on the interaction between the ligand and its specific platelet surface receptor.

Platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion caused by for example the exposure of blood to a medical device or instrument by administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of any of the above described compounds or compositions.

As used herein a therapeutically effective amount of a drug or pharmaceutical composition or formulation or agent described herein is an amount of a drug or agent that when administered to a subject with a disease or condition will have the intended therapeutic effect e.g. alleviation amelioration palliation or elimination of one or more manifestations of the disease or condition in the subject. The full therapeutic effect does not necessarily occur by administration of one dose and may occur only after administration of a series of doses. Thus a therapeutically effective amount may be administered in one or more administrations.

Generally an effective amount of a compound taught herein varies depending upon various factors such as the given drug or compound the pharmaceutical formulation the route of administration the type of disease or disorder the identity of the subject or host being treated and the like but can nevertheless be routinely determined by one skilled in the art. An effective amount of a compound of the present teachings may be readily determined by one of ordinary skill by routine methods known in the art.

In an embodiment an effective amount of a compound taught herein ranges from about 0.1 to about 1000 mg kg body weight alternatively about 1 to about 500 mg kg body weight and in another alternative from about 20 to about 300 mg kg body weight. In another embodiment an effective amount of a compound taught herein ranges from about 0.5 to about 5000 mg m alternatively about from 5 to about 2500 mg m and in another alternative from about 50 to about 1000 mg m. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage required to effectively treat a subject suffering from cancer or reduce the likelihood of recurrence of a cancer. These factors include but are not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present.

Moreover for methods described herein a treatment or dosing regime of a subject with an effective amount of the compound of the present teachings may consist of a single administration or alternatively comprise a series of applications. For example the compound of the present teachings may be administered at least once a week. However in another embodiment the compound may be administered to the subject from about one time per week to once daily for a given treatment. The length of the treatment period depends on a variety of factors such as the severity of the disease the age of the patient the concentration and the activity of the compounds of the present teachings or a combination thereof. It will also be appreciated that the effective dosage of the compound used for the treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment regime. Changes in dosage may result and become apparent by standard diagnostic assays known in the art. In some instances chronic administration may be required.

As used herein treating or treatment of a condition or subject refers to taking steps to obtain beneficial or desired results including clinical results. Beneficial or desired clinical results can include but are not limited to alleviation or amelioration of one or more symptoms or conditions diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

Administration of any of the compounds compositions or formulations described in detail herein includes parallel administration i.e. administration of elements of the formulation to the subject over a period of time co administration or sequential administration in which elements of the formulation are administered at approximately the same time e.g. within about a few seconds to a few hours of one another and simultaneous or co formulation in which elements of the formulation are combined or compounded into a single dosage form suitable for oral or parenteral administration .

Combination therapy can be achieved by administering two or more agents e.g. a compound described herein in combination with one or more agents chosen from lipid altering agents resveratrol imidazoline receptor agonists and PDE inhibitors each of which is formulated and administered separately or by administering two or more agents in a single formulation. For example a compound described herein can be combined with one or more of 1 an amino containing compound such as but not limited to aminoguanidine agmatine or amino tetrazole 2 resveratrol and 3 an imidazoline receptor agonist such as but not limited to LNP509 S 21663 S 22068 or S 23515. This combination can be accomplished by addition of the separate agents or by direct chemical coupling of the agents as disclosed herein to form a single compound. One or more lipid altering agents and or PDE inhibitors can also be included in the fibric acid statin amino containing compound resveratrol imidazoline receptor agonist combination. Each of the agents can be formulated and administered separately or in a single formulation. Other combinations are also encompassed by combination therapy. For example two agents can be formulated together and administered in conjunction with a separate formulation containing a third agent. While the two or more agents in the combination therapy can be administered simultaneously they need not be. For example administration of a first agent or combination of agents can precede administration of a second agent or combination of agents by minutes hours days or weeks. Thus the two or more agents can be administered within minutes of each other or within 1 2 3 6 9 12 15 18 or 24 hours of each other or within 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14 days of each other or within 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 weeks of each other. In some cases even longer intervals are possible. While in many cases it is desirable that the two or more agents used in a combination therapy be present in within the patient s body at the same time this need not be so.

Combination therapy can also include two or more administrations of one or more of the agents used in the combination. For example if agent X and agent Y are used in a combination one could administer them sequentially in any combination one or more times e.g. in the order X Y X X X Y Y X Y Y Y X X X Y Y etc.

The compounds or compositions described herein can be formulated and administered in combination with lipid altering agent or dyslipidemia agent. The term lipid altering agent refers to compounds including but not limited to bile acid sequestrants such as cholestyramine a styrene divinylbenzene copolymer containing quaternary ammonium cationic groups capable of binding bile acids such as QUESTRAN or QUESTRAN LIGHT cholestyramine which are available from Bristol Myers Squibb colesevelam hydrochloride such as WELCHOL tablets polyallylamine hydrochloride cross linked with epichlorohydrin and alkylated with 1 bromodecane and 6 bromohexyl trimethylammonium bromide which are available from Sankyo colestipol a copolymer of diethylenetriamine and 1 chloro 2 3 epoxypropane such as COLESTID tablets which are available from Pharmacia dialkylaminoalkyl derivatives of a cross linked dextran LOCHOLEST DEAE Sephadex SECHOLEX POLICEXIDE water soluble derivatives such as 3 3 ioene N cycloalkyl alkylamines and poliglusam insoluble quaternized polystyrenes saponins and mixtures thereof and those bile acid sequestrants disclosed in WO97 11345 WO98 57652 U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 692 895 and 5 703 188. Suitable inorganic cholesterol sequestrants include bismuth salicylate plus montmorillonite clay aluminum hydroxide and calcium carbonate antacids.

HMG CoA reductase inhibitors are dyslipidemic agents that can be used in therapeutic combinations with compounds described herein. Suitable HMG CoA reductase inhibitors for use in therapeutic combination with a compounds described herein include atorvastatin LIPITOR disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 681 893 5 385 929 and 5 686 104 atorvastatin calcium disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 dihydrocompactin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 171 bervastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 082 859 carvastatin crilvastatin dalvastatin disclosed in EP738510A2 fluvastatin LESCOL disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 739 073 and 534772 glenvastatin fluindostatin disclosed in EP363934A1 velostatin visinolin disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 448 784 and 4 450 171 lovastatin mevinolin MEVACOR Merck and Co. and related compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 mevastatin and related compound disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 983 140 compactin and related compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 804 770 pitavastatin also known as NK 104 itavastatin nisvastatin nisbastatin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 102 888 pravastatin PRAVACHOL Bristol Myers Squibb and related compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 rivastatin sodium 7 4 fluorophenyl 2 6 diisopropyl 5 methoxymethylpyridin 3 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6 heptanoate rosuvastatin CRESTOR also known as ZD 4522 disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 atavastatin visastatin simvastatin ZOCOR Merck and Co. and related compounds as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 448 784 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 171 simvastatin CI 981 compounds disclosed in WO03 033481 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 231 938 4 444 784 4 647 576 4 686 237 4 499 289 4 346 227 5 753 675 4 613 610 EP0221025 and EP491226 and optical or geometric isomers thereof and nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts N oxides esters quaternary ammonium salts and prodrugs thereof. In HMG CoA reductase inhibitors where an open acid form can exist salt and ester forms may preferably be formed from the open acid and all such forms are included within the meaning of the term HMG CoA reductase inhibitor as used herein. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts with respect to the HMG CoA reductase inhibitor includes non toxic salts of the compounds which are generally prepared by reacting the free acid with a suitable organic or inorganic base particularly those formed from cations such as sodium potassium aluminum calcium lithium magnesium zinc and tetramethylammonium as well as those salts formed from amines such as ammonia ethylenediamine N methylglucamine lysine arginine ornithine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine diethanolamine procaine N benzylphenethylamine 1 p chlorobenzyl 2 pyrrolidine 1 yl methylbenzim idazole diethylamine piperazine and tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane. Further examples of salt forms of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors may include but are not limited to acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynapthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate oleate oxalate pamaote palmitate panthothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodide and valerate.

Soluble guanylate cyclase modulators are dyslipidemic agents that can be used in therapeutic combinations with compounds described herein. Soluble guanylate cyclase sGC is a nitric oxide NO sensing haemprotein that has been described in many eukaryotes. In response to various stimuli sGC converts GTP into the 2messenger cyclic cGMP. GC is a heterodimeric protein consisting of homologous alpha and beta subunits. Each subunit consists of an N terminal domain which may bind haem nitric oxide and or oxygen a central domain of unknown function and a C terminal consensus nucleotide cyclase domain. sGC can be activated via both nitric oxide NO dependent and independent manners. When NO binds to the haem prosthetic group in the beta subunit of sGC catalysis is accelerated by 2 3 orders of magnitude. Agents that function as sGC modulators include but are not limited to NO donors eNOS transcriptional enhancers haem dependent sGC stimulators haem independent sGC activators and NOS substrates.

NO donors are pharmacologically active substances that release NO in vivo or in vitro. There are different classes of NO donors which include organic nitrates e.g. nitroglycerin isosorbides e.g. isosorbide dinitrate isosorbide mononitrate isosorbide 5 mononitrate isosorbide 2 mononitrate CA Registry no. 16051 77 7 S nitrosothiols iron nitrosyl complexes e.g. sodium nitroprusside sydnonimines C nitroso compounds and secondary amine NO complex ions.

Specific examples of some of the classes of NO donors named above include Isosorbide Dilatrate SR Imdur Ismo Isordil Isordil Titradose Monoket FK 409 NOR 3 FR 144420 NOR 4 3 morpholinosydnonimine Linsidomine chlorohydrate SIN I S nitroso N acetylpenicillamine SNAP AZD3582 CINOD lead compound NCX 4016 NCX 701 NCX 1022 HCT 1026 NCX 1015 NCX 950 NCX 1000 NCX 1020 AZD 4717 NCX 1510 NCX 1512 NCX 2216 and NCX 4040 all available fromNicOx S.A. S nitrosoglutathione GSNO S nitrosoglutathione mono ethyl ester GSNO ester 6 2 hydroxy 1 methyl nitrosohydrazino N methyl 1 hexanamine NOC 9 or diethylamine NONOate S nitrosothiol a nitrite a sydnonimine a NONOate a N nitrosoamine a N hydroxyl nitrosamine a nitrosimine a diazetine dioxide an oxatriazole 5 imine an oxime a hydroxylamine a N hydroxyguanidine a hydroxyurea or a furoxan. Nitric oxide donors are also as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 155 137 5 366 997 5 405 919 5 650 442 5 700 830 5 632 981 6 290 981 5 691 423 5 721 365 5 714 511 6 511 911 and 5 814 666 Chrysselis et al. 2002 J Med Chem. 45 5406 9 such as NO donors 14 and 17 and Nitric Oxide Donors for Pharmaceutical and Biological Research Eds Peng George Wang Tingwei Bill Cai Naoyuki Taniguchi Wiley 2005.

NO donors have a nitrate functionality within the molecule and a nitroso functional group is present in all of these compounds. Glyceryl trinitrate also known as GTN nitroglycerin nitroglycerine and trinitrogylcerin is the nitrate ester of glycerol. In sodium nitroprusside SNP a molecule of nitric oxide is coordinated to iron metal forming the square bipyramidal complex. 3 Morpholinosydnonimine SIN I is a zwitterionic compound formed by combination of a morpholine and a sydnonimine. S nitroso N acetylpenicillamine SNAP is an N acetylated amino acid derivative with a nitrosothiol functional group. Diethylenetriamine NO DETA NO is a compound of nitric oxide covalently linked to diethylenetriamine. NCX 4016 is an m nitroxymethyl phenyl ester of acetyl salicyclic acid.

The amount and duration of NO release by the respective NO donors determines their pharmacological properties. In vivo some compounds act rapidly and the amount of NO released is relatively small. In others such as NCX 4016 NO aspirin the effect is slow and lasts for hours. The route of administration oral and parenteral and the duration of release of NO also differ. NO is connected with a specific molecular target by binding to iron in the haem group of sGC it produces cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP which activates a cascade of cellular processes.

The classic nitrovasodilators organic nitrate and nitrite esters including nitroglycerin amyl nitrite isosorbide dinitrate isosorbide 5 mononitrate and nicorandil have been used for many years in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Their principal action is vasorelaxation vasodilation mediated by guanylyl cyclase activation and by direct inhibition of nonspecific cation channels in vascular smooth muscle cells VSMCs . As such these agents represent the prototypical form of NO replacement therapy. All of the organic nitrate esters are prodrugs requiring enzymatic metabolism to generate bioactive NO. The major enzyme system involved is located within microsomal membranes has an estimated apparent molecular mass of 160 kDa and manifests enhanced activity in the presence of reducing equivalents especially thiols which potentiate the action of organic nitrate esters. Although the enzyme has not been more specifically characterized growing evidence suggests that the cytochrome P 450 system in conjunction with NADPH and glutathiones transferase activities is required for the linked metabolic processes of denitration and reduction of organic nitrate esters to authentic NO.

Endothelial NO synthase is subject to physiological and pathophysiological regulation both at the transcriptional and at the post transcriptional level. Compounds which enhance eNOS transcription are described in WO 02 064146 WO 02 064545 WO 02 064546 and WO 02 064565 and corresponding patent documents such as US2003 0008915 US2003 0022935 US2003 0022939 and US2003 0055093 for example. Other eNOS transcriptional enhancers include those described in US20050101599 e.g. 2 2 difluorobenzo 1 3 dioxol 5 carboxylic acid indan 2 ylamide and 4 fluoro N indan 2 yl benzamide and Sanofi Aventis compounds AVE3085 and AVE9488 CA Registry NO. 916514 70 0 Schafer et al Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis 2005 Volume 3 Supplement 1 abstract number P1487 .

Evgenov et al. 2006 Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 5 755 768 review a novel class of haem dependent sGC stimulators which share several characteristics including crucial dependency on the presence of the reduced prosthetic haem moiety and strong synergistic enzyme activation when combined with NO. Haem dependent sGC stimulators include but are not limited to 

sGC can also be activated in a NO and haem independent manner by haem independent sGC activators which include but are not limited to 

S 3448 2 4 chloro phenylsulfonylamino 4 5 dimethoxy N 4 thiomorpholine 4 sulfonyl phenyl benzamide see patent publications DE19830430 and WO2000002851 

L arginine acts as the endogenous substrate of NOS. Other NOS substrates which can be converted to NO may also be useful in the methods described herein. NOS substrates in addition to L arginine include n hydroxyguanidine based analogs such as N G hydroxy L arginine NOHA 1 3 4 dimethoxy 2 chlorobenzylideneamino 3 hydroxyguanidine and PR5 1 3 4 dimethoxy 2 chlorobenzylideneamino 3 hydroxyguanidine L arginine derivatives such as homo Arg homo NOHA N tert butyloxy and N 3 methyl 2 butenyl oxy L arginine canavanine epsilon guanidine caproic acid agmatine hydroxyl agmatine and L tyrosyl L arginine N alkyl N hydroxyguanidines such as N cyclopropyl N hydroxyguanidine and N butyl N hydroxyguanidine N aryl N hydroxyguanidines such as N phenyl N hydroxyguanidine and its para substituted derivatives which bear F Cl methyl OH substituents respectively guanidine derivatives such as 3 trifluormethyl propylguanidine and others reviewed in Cali et al. 2005 Current Topics in Medicinal Chemistry 5 721 736 and disclosed in the references cited therein.

Other dyslipidemic agents e.g. lipid altering agents which can be used in therapeutic combination with a compound described herein include 

HMG CoA synthase inhibitors such as L 659 699 E E 11 3 R hydroxy methyl 4 oxo 2 R oxetanyl 3 5 7R trimethyl 2 4 undecadienoic acid and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 120 729 U.S. Pat. No. 5 064 856 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 847 271 

cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as plant sterols plant stanols and or fatty acid esters of plant stanols such as sitostanol ester used in BENECOL margarine stanol esters beta sitosterol and sterol glycosides such as tiqueside. Other cholesterol absorption inhibitors include 1 4 Diphenylazetidin 2 ones 4 biarylyl 1 phenylazetidin 2 ones 4 hydroxyphenyl azetidin 2 ones 1 4 diphenyl 3 hydroxyalkyl 2 azetidinones A biphenyl 1 phenylazetidin 2 ones 4 biarylyl 1 phenylazetidin 2 ones and A biphenylylazetidinones 

acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyl transferase ACAT inhibitors such as avasimibe Current Opinion in Investigational Drugs. 3 9 291 297 2003 eflucimibe HL 004 lecimibe DuP 128 KY505 SMP 797 CL 277 082 Clin Pharmacol Ther. 48 2 189 94 1990 and the like and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 510 379 WO96 26948 and WO96 10559 

CETP inhibitors such as JTT 705 identified as in Nature 406 6792 203 7 2000 CP 532 632 BAY63 2149 SC 591 SC 795 and the like including those described in Current Opinion in Investigational Drugs. 4 3 291 297 2003 and those disclosed in J. Antibiot. 49 8 815 816 1996 and Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 6 1951 1954 1996 and patent publications U.S. Pat. No. 5 512 548 U.S. Pat. No. 6 147 090 WO99 20302 WO99 14204 WO99 41237 WO95 04755 WO96 15141 WO96 05227 W0038721 EP796846 EP818197 EP818448 DE19704244 DE19741051 DE19741399 DE197042437 DE19709125 DE19627430 DE19832159 DE19741400 JP 11049743 and JP 09059155 

squalene synthetase inhibitors such as squalestatin 1 TAK 475 and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 871 721 4 924 024 5 712 396 phosphono sulfonates Biller et al 1988 J. Med. Chem. 31 1869 e.g. isoprenoid phosphinyl methyl phosphonates Biller et al 1996 Current Pharmaceutical Design 2 1 P. Ortiz de Montellano et al 1977 J. Med. Chem. 20 243 terpenoid pyrophosphates Corey and Volante 1976 J. Am. Chem. Soc 98 1291 farnesyl diphosphate analog A and presqualene pyrophosphate PSQ PP analogs McClard et al 1987 J.A.C.S. 109 5544 phosphinylphosphonates Capson T. L. PhD dissertation June 1987 Dept. Med. Chem. U of Utah Abstract Table of Contents pp 16 17 40 43 48 51 Summary cyclopropanes Curr. Op. Ther. Patents 1993 861 and patent publications EP0567026A1 EP0645378A1 EP0645377A1 EP0611749A1 EP0705607A2 EP0701725A1 and WO96 09827 

antioxidants such as probucol and related compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 674 836 probucol derivatives such as AGI 1067 and other derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 121 319 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 147 250 tocopherol ascorbic acid carotene selenium and vitamins such as vitamin B6 or vitamin B 12 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

PPAR agonists such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 028 109 fluorophenyl compounds WO00 75103 substituted phenylpropionic compounds WO98 43081 and fibric acid derivatives fibrates such as beclofibrate benzafibrate bezafibrate C.A.S. Registry No. 41859 67 0 see U.S. Pat. No. 3 781 328 binifibrate C.A.S. Registry No. 69047 39 8 see BE884722 ciprofibrate C.A.S. Registry No. 52214 84 3 see U.S. Pat. No. 3 948 973 clinofibrate C.A.S. Registry No. 30299 08 2 see U.S. Pat. No. 3 716 583 clofibrate such as ethyl 2 p chlorophenoxy 2 methyl propionate e.g. Atromid S capsules Wyeth Ayerst etofibrate fenofibrate such as Tricor micronized fenofibrate 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methyl propanoic acid 1 methylethyl ester Abbott Laboratories or Lipanthyl micronized fenofibrate Labortoire Founier France gemcabene gemfibrozil such as 5 2 5 dimethylphenoxy 2 2 dimethylpentanoic acid e.g. Lopid tablets Parke Davis lifibrol GW 7647 BM 170744 LY518674 and those fibrate and fibrate acid derivatives disclosed in WO03 033456 WO03 033481 WO03 043997 WO03 048116 WO03 053974 WO03 059864 and WO03 05875 

LXR receptor modulators such as GW 3965 T9013137 and XTC0179628 and those disclosed in US20030125357 WO03 045382 WO03 053352 WO03 059874 and the like 

thyroid receptor agonists such as QRX 401 and QRX 431 QuatRx GC 24 described in US 20040110154 KB 2611 and KB 2115 KaroBioBMS and those disclosed in WO02 15845 WO97 21993 WO99 00353 GB98 284425 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 183 223 and Japanese Patent Application No. JP 2000256190 

antisense inhibitors of apoB 100 or C reactive protein including for example ISIS 301012 and ISIS 353512 ISIS Pharmaceuticals 

HM74 and HM74A human HM74A is Genbank Accession No. AY148884 and rat HM74A is EMM patAR098624 receptor agonists such as nicotinic acid niacin and derivatives thereof e.g. compounds comprising a pyridine 3 carboxylate structure or a pyrazine 2 carboxylate structure including acid forms salts esters zwitterions and tautomers where available including but not limited to those disclosed in Wise et al 2003 J. Biol. Chem. 278 9869 e.g. S methylpyrazole S carboxylic acid and acifran 4 5 dihydro 5 methyl 4 oxo 5 phenyl 2 furan carboxylic acid pyradine 3 acetic acid as well as 5 methyl nicotinic acid nicotinuric acid niceritrol nicofuranose acipimox 5 methylpyrazine 2 carboxylic acid 4 oxide Niaspan niacin extended release tablets Kos and those which can be easily identified by one skilled in the art which bind to and agonize the HM74A or HM74 receptor for example using the assays disclosed in Wise et al 2003 J. Biol. Chem 278 9869 nicotine binding and 35S GTP S binding assays Soga et al 2003 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 303 364 radio label binding assay using the HM74 receptor which could be adapted to the HM74A receptor Tunaru et al 2003 Nature Medicine 9 352 calcium mobilization assay using the HM74 receptor which could be adapted to the HM74A receptor and U.S. Pat. No. 6 420 183 FLIPR assays are described generally in and may be adapted to the HM74A or HM74 receptor 

bile acid reabsorption inhibitors bile acid reuptake inhibitors such as BARI 1453 SC435 PHA384640 58921 AZD7706 and the like 

PPAR agonists including partial agonists such as GW 501516 and GW 590735 and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 859 051 acetophenols WO03 024395 WO97 28149 WO01 79197 WO02 14291 WO02 46154 WO02 46176 WO02 076957 WO03 016291 WO03 033493 WO99 20275 quinoline phenyl compounds WO99 38845 aryl compounds WO00 63161 1 4 disubstituted phenyl compounds WO01 00579 aryl compounds WO01 12612 WO01 12187 benzoic acid compounds and WO97 31907 substituted 4 hydroxy phenylalconic acid compound 

microsomal triglyceride transport MTTP inhibitors such as inplitapide LAB687 and CP346086 AEGR 733 implitapide and the like 

HMG CoA reductase gene expression inhibitors e.g. compounds that decrease HMG CoA reductase expression by affecting e.g. blocking transcription or translation of HMG CoA reductase into protein or compounds that may be biotransformed into compounds that have the aforementioned attributes by one or more enzymes in the cholesterol biosynthetic cascade or may lead to the accumulation of an isoprene metabolite that has the aforementioned activities such regulation is readily determined by those skilled in the art according to standard assays Methods of Enzymology 110 9 19 1985 such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 432 certain 15 substituted lanosterol derivatives and E. I. Mercer 1993 Prog. Lip. Res. 32 357 oxygenated sterols that suppress the biosynthesis of HMG CoA reductase 

squalene epoxidase inhibitors such as NB 598 E N ethyl N 6 6 dimethyl 2 hepten 4 y nyl 3 3 3 bithiophen 5 yl methoxy benzene methanamine hydrochloride low density lipoprotein LDL receptor inducers such as HOE 402 an imidazolidinyl pyrimidine derivative that directly stimulates LDL receptor activity see Huettinger et al 1993 Arterioscler. Thromb. 13 1005 

PPAR modulators including compounds that may have multiple functionality for activating various combinations of PPAR PPAR and PPAR such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 008 237 6 248 781 6 166 049 WO00 12491 WO00 218355 WO00 23415 WO00 23416 WO00 23425 WO00 23442 WO00 23445 WO00 23451 WO00 236331 WO00 236332 WO00 238553 WO00 50392 WO00 53563 WO00 63153 WO00 63190 WO00 63196 WO00 63209 WO00 78312 WO00 78313 WO01 04351 WO01 14349 WO01 14350 WO01 16120 WO01 17994 WO01 21181 WO01 21578 WO01 25181 WO01 25225 WO01 25226 WO01 40192 WO01 79150 WO02 081428 WO02 100403 WO02 102780 WO02 79162 WO03 016265 WO03 033453 WO03 042194 WO03 043997 WO03 066581 WO97 25042 WO99 07357 WO99 11255 WO99 12534 WO99 15520 WO99 46232 and WO98 05331 including GW2331 or 2 4 difluorophenyl 1 heptylureido ethyl phenoxy 2 methylbutyric 

apolipoprotein B inhibitors such as those disclosed in WO02 090347 WO02 28835 WO03 045921 WO03 047575 

ileal bile acid transport IBAT inhibitors or apical sodium co dependent bile acid transport ASBT inhibitors such as benzothiepines including 1 2 benzothiazepines 1 4 benzothiazepines 1 5 benzothiazepines 1 2 5 benzothiadiazepines 

PPAR activators such as disclosed in WO01 00603 thiazole and oxazole derivates e.g. C.A.S. Registry No. 317318 32 4 WO97 28149 fluoro chloro and thio phenoxy phenylacetic U.S. Pat. No. 5 093 365 non 1 oxidizable fatty acid analogues and WO99 04815. Tests showing the efficacy of the therapy and the rationale for the combination therapy with a dyslipidemic agent are presented in US20030069221 where the dyslipidemic agents are called cardiovascular agents .

The compounds described herein can be used in therapeutic combination with one or more anti diabetic agents including but not limited to 

PPAR agonists such as glitazones e.g. balaglitazone ciglitazone darglitazone CP 86325 Pfizer englitazone CP 68722 Pfizer isaglitazone MIT J J MCC 555 Mitsibishi disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 594 016 pioglitazone such as such as Actos pioglitazone Takeda rosiglitazone Avandia Smith Kline Beecham rosiglitazone maleate troglitazone Rezulin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 572 912 GL 262570 Glaxo Welcome BRL49653 disclosed in WO98 05331 CLX 0921 5 BTZD GW 0207 LG 100641 JJT 501 JPNT P U L 895645 Merck R 119702 Sankyo Pfizer NN 2344 Dr. Reddy NN YM 440 Yamanouchi LY 300512 LY 519818 R483 Roche T131 Tularik and the like and compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 994 554 WO97 10813 WO97 27857 WO97 28115 WO97 28137 WO97 27847 WO00 76488 WO03 000685 WO03 027112 WO03 035602 WO03 048130 WO03 055867 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 

biguanides such as metformin hydrochloride NN dimethylimidodicarbonimidic diamide hydrochloride such as Glucophage Bristol Myers Squibb metformin hydrochloride with glyburide such as Glucovance Bristol Myers Squibb buformin Imidodicarbonimidic diamide N butyl etoformine 1 Butyl 2 ethylbiguanide Schering A.G. and phenformin 

protein tyrosine phosphatase IB PTP IB inhibitors such as A 401 674 KR 61639 OC 060062 OC 83839 OC 297962 MC52445 MC52453 ISIS 113715 and those disclosed in WO03 032916 WO03 032982 WO03 041729 WO03 055883 WO02 26707 WO02 26743 JP2002114768 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

sulfonylureas such as acetohexamide e.g. Dymelor Eli Lilly carbutamide chlorpropamide e.g. Diabinese Pfizer gliamilide Pfizer glibenclamide gliclazide e.g. Diamcron Servier Canada Inc glimepiride e.g. disclosed in US437978 such as Amaryl Aventis glipentide glipizide e.g. Glucotrol or Glucotrol XL Extended Release Pfizer gliquidone glisolamide glyburide glibenclamide e.g. Micronase or Glynase Prestab Pharmacia Upjohn and Diabeta Aventis tolazamide e.g. Tolinase and tolbutamide e.g. Orinase and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof meglitinides such as repaglinide e.g. Pranidin Novo Nordisk KAD1229 PF Kissei and nateglinide e.g. Starlix Novartis and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

alpha glucoside hydrolase inhibitors or glucoside inhibitors such as acarbose e.g. Precose Bayer disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 904 769 miglitol such as GLYSET Pharmacia Upjohn disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 639 436 camiglibose Methyl 6 deoxy 6 2R 3R 4R 5S 3 4 5 trihydroxy 2 hydroxymethyl piperidino D glucopyranoside Marion Merrell Dow voglibose Takeda adiposine emiglitate pradimicin Q salbostatin CKD 711 MDL 25 637 MDL 73 945 and MOR 14 and the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 062 950 4 174 439 4 254 256 4 701 559 4 639 436 5 192 772 4 634 765 5 157 116 5 504 078 5 091 418 5 217 877 US51091 and WO01 47528 polyamines 

 amylase inhibitors such as tendamistat trestatin and A1 3688 and the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 451 455 4 623 714 and 4 273 765 

insulin secreatagogues such as linogliride and A 4166 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

fatty acid oxidation inhibitors such as clomoxir and etomoxir and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

A2 antagonists such as midaglizole isaglidole deriglidole idazoxan earoxan and fluparoxan and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

insulin and related compounds e.g. insulin mimetics such as biota LP IOO novarapid insulin detemir insulin lispro insulin glargine insulin zinc suspension lente and ultralente Lys Pro insulin GLP I 1 36 amide GLP I 73 7 insulintropin disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 614 492 LY 315902 Lilly GLP I 7 36 NH2 AL 401 Autoimmune certain compositions as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 579 730 4 849 405 4 963 526 5 642 868 5 763 396 5 824 638 5 843 866 6 153 632 6 191 105 and WO 85 05029 and primate rodent or rabbit insulin including biologically active variants thereof including allelic variants more preferably human insulin available in recombinant form sources of human insulin include pharmaceutically acceptable and sterile formulations such as those available from Eli Lilly Indianapolis Ind. 46285 as Humulin human insulin rDNA origin also see the THE PHYSICIAN S DESK REFERENCE 55.sup.th Ed. 2001 Medical Economics Thomson Healthcare disclosing other suitable human insulins 

non thiazolidinediones such as JT 501 and farglitazar GW 2570 GI 262579 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

PPAR dual agonists such as AR HO39242 Aztrazeneca GW 409544 Glaxo Wellcome BVT 142 CLX 0940 GW 1536 GW 1929 GW 2433 KRP 297 Kyorin Merck 5 2 4 Dioxo thiazolidinyl methyl methoxy N 4 trifiuoromethyl phenyl methyl benzamide L 796449 LR 90 MK 0767 SB 219994 muraglitazar reglitazar JTT 501 and those disclosed in WO99 16758 WO99 19313 WO99 20614 WO99 38850 WO00 23415 WO00 23417 WO00 23445 WO00 50414 WO01 00579 WO01 79150 WO02 062799 WO03 004458 WO03 016265 WO03 018010 WO03 033481 WO03 033450 WO03 033453 WO03 043985 WO 031053976 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

GSK 3 GSK 3 inhibitors such as 4 2 2 bromophenyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 1H imidazol 5 yl pyridine and those compounds disclosed in WO03 024447 WO03 037869 WO03 037877 WO03 037891 WO03 068773 EP1295884 EP1295885 and the like 

glycogen phosphorylase HGLPa inhibitors such as CP 368 296 CP 316 819 BAYR3401 and compounds disclosed in WO01 94300 WO02 20530 WO03 037864 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts or esters thereof 

dipeptidyl peptidase IV DP IV inhibitors such as iso leucine thiazolidide NVP DPP728 P32 98 LAF 237 P3298 TSL225 valine pyrrolidide TMC 2A 2B 2C CD 26 inhibitors FE999011 P9310 K364 VIP 0177 DPP4 SDZ 274 444 and the compounds disclosed in WO03 004498 WO03 004496 EP1258476 WO02 083128 WO02 062764 WO03 000250 WO03 002530 WO03 002531 WO03 002553 WO03 002593 WO03 000180 and WO03 000181 

GLP I agonists such as exendin 3 and exendin 4 including the 39 aa peptide synthetic exendin 4 called Exenatide and compounds disclosed in US2003087821 and NZ 504256 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof 

glycokinase activators such as those disclosed in US2002103199 fused heteroaromatic compounds and WO02 48106 isoindolin 1 one substituted propionamide compounds and

other anti diabetic agents such as cholestagel Sankyo Geltex lipostabil Rhone Poulenc Eisai E 5050 an N substituted ethanolamine derivative imanixil HOE 402 tetrahydrolipstatin THL istigmastanylphosphorylcholine SPC Roche aminocyclodextrin Tanabe Seiyoku Ajinomoto AJ 814 azulene derivative melinamide Sumitomo Sandoz 58 035 American Cyanamid CL 277 082 and CL 283 546 disubstituted urea derivatives acipimox acifran neomycin p aminosalicylic acid aspirin poly diallylmethylamine derivatives such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 759 923 quaternary amine poly diallyldimethylammonium chloride pancreatic cholesteryl hydrolase pCEH inhibitors such as WAY 121898 omega 3 fatty acids fish oil which contains Omega 3 fatty acids 3 PUFA and ionenes such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 027 009. Tests showing the efficacy of the therapy and the rationale for the combination therapy with an anti diabetic agent are presented in US20040214811.

A subject is a mammal preferably a human but can also be an animal in need of veterinary treatment e.g. companion animals e.g. dogs cats and the like farm animals e.g. cows sheep pigs horses and the like and laboratory animals e.g. rats mice guinea pigs and the like .

The compounds taught herein can be suitably formulated into pharmaceutical compositions for administration to a subject. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present teachings optionally include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and or diluents therefor such as lactose starch cellulose and dextrose. Other excipients such as flavoring agents sweeteners and preservatives such as methyl ethyl propyl and butyl parabens can also be included. More complete listings of suitable excipients can be found in the Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients 5Ed. Pharmaceutical Press 2005 . A person skilled in the art would know how to prepare formulations suitable for various types of administration routes. Conventional procedures and ingredients for the selection and preparation of suitable formulations are described for example in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 2003 20th edition and in The United States Pharmacopeia The National Formulary USP 24 NF19 published in 1999. The carriers diluents and or excipients are acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the pharmaceutical composition and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions taught herein can be administered to a patient in a variety of forms depending on the selected route of administration as will be understood by those skilled in the art.

The compounds and compositions of the present teachings can be administered by any available and effective delivery system including but not limited to orally bucally parenterally by inhalation spray oral or nasal by topical application by injection into the corpus cavernosum tissue by transurethral drug delivery vaginally or rectally e.g. by the use of suppositories in dosage unit formulations containing conventional nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles as desired. Parenteral includes subcutaneous injections intravenous injections intramuscular injections intrasternal injections and infusion techniques. Parenteral also includes injection into the corpus cavernosum tissue which can be conducted using any effective injection system including but not limited to conventional syringe and needle systems or needleless injection devices.

Solid dosage forms for oral administration can include capsules tablets effervescent tablets chewable tablets pills powders effervescent powders sachets granules and gels. In such solid dosage forms the active compounds can be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose lactose or starch. Such dosage forms can also comprise as in normal practice additional substances other than inert diluents e.g. lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate. In the case of capsules tablets effervescent tablets and pills the dosage forms can also comprise buffering agents. Soft gelatin capsules can be prepared to contain a mixture of the active compounds or compositions of the present invention and vegetable oil. Hard gelatin capsules can contain granules of the active compound in combination with a solid pulverulent carrier such as lactose saccharose sorbitol mannitol potato starch corn starch amylopectin cellulose derivatives of gelatin. Tablets and pills can be prepared with enteric coatings.

Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can include pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions solutions suspensions syrups and elixirs containing inert diluents commonly used in the art such as water. Such compositions can also comprise adjuvants such as wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents and sweetening flavoring and perfuming agents.

Suppositories for vaginal or rectal administration of the compounds and compositions of the invention can be prepared by mixing the compounds or compositions with a suitable nonirritating excipient such as cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols which are solid at room temperature but liquid at body temperature such that they will melt and release the drug.

Injectable preparations for example sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspensions can be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing agents wetting agents and or suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation can also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be used are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. Sterile fixed oils are also conventionally used as a solvent or suspending medium.

Typically for parenteral administration solutions of a compound of the present teachings can generally be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols DMSO and mixtures thereof with or without alcohol and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

For nasal administration the compounds of the present teachings can be formulated as aerosols drops gels and powders. Aerosol formulations typically comprise a solution or fine suspension of the active substance in a physiologically acceptable aqueous or non aqueous solvent and are usually presented in single or multidose quantities in sterile form in a sealed container which can take the form of a cartridge or refill for use with an atomizing device. Alternatively the sealed container may be a unitary dispensing device such as a single dose nasal inhaler or an aerosol dispenser fitted with a metering valve which is intended for disposal after use. Where the dosage form comprises an aerosol dispenser it will contain a propellant which can be a compressed gas such as compressed air or an organic propellant such as fluorochlorohydrocarbon. The aerosol dosage forms can also take the form of a pump atomizer.

Topical administration which is well known to one skilled in the art involves the delivery of pharmaceutical agents via percutaneous passage of the drug into the systemic circulation of the patient. Topical administration includes vaginal administration vulval administration penile administration and rectal administration. Topical administration can also involve transdermal patches or iontophoresis devices. Other components can be incorporated into the transdermal patches as well. For example compositions and or transdermal patches can be formulated with one or more preservatives or bacteriostatic agents including but not limited to methyl hydroxybenzoate propyl hydroxybenzoate chlorocresol benzalkonium chloride and the like.

Dosage forms for topical administration of the compounds and compositions of the present invention preferably include creams sprays lotions gels ointments emulsions coatings for condoms liposomes foams and the like. Administration of the cream spray ointment lotion gel emulsion coating liposome or foam can be accompanied by the use of an applicator or by transurethral drug delivery using a syringe with or without a needle or penile insert or device or by clitoral vulval or vaginal delivery and is within the skill of the art. Alternatively the compositions may be contained within a vaginal ring tampon suppository sponge pillow puff or osmotic pump system these platforms are useful solely for vaginal delivery. Typically a lubricant and or a local anesthetic for desensitization can also be included in the formulation or provided for use as needed. Lubricants include for example K Y jelly available from Johnson Johnson or a lidocaine jelly such as XYLOCAINE 2 jelly available from Astra Pharmaceutical Products . Local anesthetics include for example novocaine procaine tetracaine benzocaine and the like.

Ointments are semisolid preparations that are typically based on petrolatum or other petroleum derivatives. The specific ointment base to be used as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art is one that will provide for optimum drug delivery. An ointment base should be inert stable nonirritating and nonsensitizing. Ointment bases may be grouped in four classes oleaginous bases emulsifiable bases emulsion bases and water soluble bases. Oleaginous ointment bases include for example vegetable oils fats obtained from animals semisolid hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum and the like. Emulsifiable ointment bases also known as absorbent ointment bases contain little or no welter and include for example hydroxystearin sulfate anhydrous lanolin hydrophilic petrolatum and the like. Emulsion ointment bases are either water in oil W O emulsions or oil in water O W emulsions and include for example cetyl alcohol glyceryl monostearate lanolin and stearic acid and the like. In a particular embodiment water soluble ointment bases are preferred and are prepared from polyethylene glycols of varying molecular weight and can be determined by standard techniques as described in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy.

Lotions are preparations that may be applied without friction and are typically liquid or semiliquid preparations in which solid particles including the active agent are present in a water or alcohol base. Lotions are usually suspensions of solids and in a particular embodiment may comprise a liquid oily emulsion of the oil in water type. It is generally necessary that the insoluble matter in a lotion be finely divided. Lotions will typically contain suspending agents to produce better dispersions as well as compounds useful for localizing the active agent in contact with the skin such as for example methylcellulose sodium carboxymethyl cellulose and the like.

Emulsion formulations are generally formed from a dispersed phase for example a pharmacologically active agent a dispersion medium and an emulsifying agent. If desired emulsion stabilizers can be included in the formulation as well. A number of pharmaceutically useful emulsions are known in the art including for example oil in water o w formulations water in oil w o formulations and multiple emulsions such as w o w or o w o formulations. Emulsifying agents suitable for use in such formulations include but are not limited to TWEEN 60 SPAN 80 cetostearyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl monostearate sodium lauryl sulfate and the like.

Creams are as known in the art viscous liquid or semisolid emulsions either oil in water or water in oil. Cream bases are water washable and contain an oil phase an emulsifier and an aqueous phase. The oil phase also sometimes called the internal phase is generally comprised of petrolatum and a fatty alcohol such as cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol and the like the aqueous phase usually although not necessarily exceeds the oil phase in volume and generally contains a humectant. The emulsifier in a cream formulation is generally a nonionic anionic cationic or amphoteric surfactant.

For treatment of sexual dysfunction the pharmaceutical formulation is administered to a subject via vaginal delivery vulvar delivery vulvar delivery or urethral delivery. The amount of active agent administered is at least the minimum necessary to treat the dysfunction e.g. excitement stage dysfunctions such as touch sensation impairment loss of clitoral sensation vaginal dryness urinary incontinence and concomitant dyspareunia.

The term vaginal delivery is used herein to mean direct administration of a pharmaceutical composition to the vagina of the individual undergoing treatment. Generally vaginal delivery of a pharmaceutical composition involves administration to the distal several centimeters of the vagina.

The term vulvar delivery or vulvar administration is used herein to refer to application of a pharmaceutical formulation to the vulvar area of an individual undergoing treatment. The term is intended to encompass application to the clitoris as well as the surrounding vulvar area. The terms vulvar delivery and clitoral delivery are used interchangeably herein and are both intended to refer to administration to the vulvar area of the individual undergoing treatment.

The term urethral delivery sometimes referred to as intraurethral or transurethral delivery is used herein to mean direct administration of a pharmaceutical composition to the urethra of the individual undergoing treatment. Generally urethral delivery of a pharmaceutical composition involves administration to the distal portion of the urethra.

Transurethral administration of the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein can be carried out in a number of different ways. For example the pharmaceutical compositions can be introduced into the urethra from a flexible tube squeeze bottle pump or aerosol spray. The pharmaceutical compositions may also be contained in coatings pellets or suppositories which are absorbed melted or bioeroded in the urethra. The drug formulation may be included as a coating on the exterior surface of a urethral insert.

Compounds described herein may be prepared using the reaction routes and syntheses described below employing the techniques available in the art using starting materials that are readily available.

The invention is illustrated by the following examples which are not intended to be limiting in any way.

A mixture of 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoic acid 10.0 g 31.4 mmol sodium bicarbonate 13.2 g 47.1 mmol 1.5 eq and tetrabutylammonium hydrogensulfate 2.1 g 6.3 mmol 0.2 eq in water 150 mL was stirred at room temperature for 15 min. Dichloromethane 150 mL was added and the mixture was cooled in ice. Chloromethyl sulfochloridate 4.2 mL 47.1 mmol 1.5 eq was added and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. The layers were separated the organic phase was washed with water 50 mL and brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The drying agent was filtered off and the solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation to leave a thick oil. Hexane 50 mL and seeds were added and rotary evaporation was continued at room temperature to leave chloromethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 1 as a white solid 11.6 g 101 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.73 d 2 H 7.70 d 2 H 7.44 d 2 H 6.87 d 2 H 5.77 s 2 H 1.70 s 6 H ppm.

Chloromethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 1 3.0 g 8.2 mmol was dissolved in acetone 50 mL at room temperature. Sodium iodide 2.4 g 16.3 mmol 2 eq was added and the clear solution was stirred 10 min at room temperature then heated to 50 C. for 6 hr. The mixture was cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate 200 mL and filtered. The filtrate was washed with water 3 10 mL and brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The drying agent was filtered off and the solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation to leave iodomethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 2 as a thick yellow oil 3.7 g 99 yield that was used directly in the next reaction without further purification. H NMR CDCl 7.74 d 2 H 7.71 d 2 H 7.45 d 2 H 6.85 d 2 H 5.97 s 2 H 1.67 s 6 H ppm.

A solution of 2 methylamino ethanol 3.0 g 39.9 mmol in ether 20 mL and tetrahydrofuran 20 mL was prepared at room temperature in a 200 mL pressure vessel Ace Glass . A solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 25 wt 11.0 mL 47.9 mmol 1.2 eq was added and the solution was stirred 15 min at room temperature. The vessel was sealed purged with nitric oxide gas 2 20 psi then the pressure of NO was adjusted to 30 psi and stirring was continued overnight at room temperature. The vessel was opened flushed for 5 min with N2 then diluted with ether 100 mL and filtered. The filter cake was washed with ether 3 50 mL then dried under high vacuum to leave the sodium NONOate salt of 2 methylamino ethanol 3 as a white solid 4.7 g 76 yield . H NMR DO 4.65 s 1 H 3.37 t 2 H 2.89 t 2 H 2.58 s 3 H ppm.

A suspension of the sodium NONOate salt of 2 methylamino ethanol 3 1.1 g 7.1 mmol 1.3 eq was prepared in dimethylformamide 10 mL and cooled in ice. A solution of iodomethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 2 2.5 g 5.4 mmol 1 eq in dimethylformamide 5 mL was added to the stirred suspension over 4 min then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr. The dimethylformamide was removed under vacuum at 40 C. then the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water 3 30 mL and brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The drying agent was filtered off and the solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation. Purification was effected by liquid chromatography over silica gel eluting with a gradient mixture of hexane ethyl acetate. The product Z 1 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoyloxy methoxy 3 2 hydroxyethyl 3 methyltriaz 1 ene 2 oxide 6 was obtained as a thick colorless gum that solidified on standing 0.64 g 25 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.71 d 2 H 7.70 d 2 H 7.44 d 2 H 6.83 d 2 H 5.84 s 2H 3.68 t 2 H 3.41 t 2 H 2.90 s 3 H 1.69 s 6 H ppm.

A solution of 2 methylamino ethanol 2.9 g 28.1 mmol in ether 30 mL and tetrahydrofuran 30 mL was prepared at room temperature in a 200 mL pressure vessel Ace Glass . A solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 25 wt 7.7 mL 33.7 mmol 1.2 eq was added and the solution was stirred 15 min at room temperature. The vessel was sealed purged with nitric oxide gas 2 20 psi then the pressure of NO was adjusted to 30 psi and stirring was continued overnight at room temperature. The vessel was opened flushed for 5 min with N2 for 5 min with N then ether 60 mL was added. A thick gum had precipitated on the sides of the vessel. The solvent was decanted off and the gummy residue was rinsed with ether 2 30 mL tetrahydrofuran 30 mL then transferred to a roundbottom flask with methanol 20 mL and concentrated by rotary evaporation and finally dried at high vacuum overnight to leave the sodium NONOate salt of 4 methylamino n butanol 3 as a light yellow solid 3.1 g 59 yield .

A suspension of the sodium NONOate salt of 2 methylamino n butanol 4 1.3 g 7.1 mmol 1.3 eq was prepared in dimethylformamide 40 mL and cooled in ice. A solution of iodomethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 2 2.5 g 5.4 mmol 1 eq in dimethylformamide 10 mL was added to the stirred suspension over 8 min then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 400 mL and washed with water 6 20 mL brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The drying agent was filtered off and the solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation. Purification was effected by liquid chromatography over silica gel eluting with a gradient mixture of hexane ethyl acetate. The product Z 1 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoyloxy methoxy 3 4 hydroxybutyl 3 methyltriaz 1 ene 2 oxide 7 was obtained as a light yellow oil 0.23 g 8 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.72 d 4 H 7.45 d 2 H 6.85 d 2 H 5.86 s 2 H 3.62 t 2 H 3.27 t 2 H 2.85 s 3 H 1.69 s 6 H 1.50 1.55 m 4 H ppm.

A solution of L prolinol 5.0 g 49.4 mmol in ether 40 mL and tetrahydrofuran 40 mL was prepared at room temperature in a 250 mL pressure vessel Ace Glass . A solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 25 wt 13.6 mL 59.3 mmol 1.2 eq was added and the solution was stirred 10 min at room temperature. The vessel was sealed purged with nitric oxide gas 2 20 psi then the pressure of NO was adjusted to 25 psi and stirring was continued overnight at room temperature. The vessel was opened flushed for 5 min with N2 then diluted with ether 80 mL and filtered. The filter cake was washed with ether 2 60 mL then dried under high vacuum to leave the sodium NONOate salt of L prolinol 5 as a white solid 7.6 g 83 yield . H NMR DO 4.65 s 1 H 3.30 3.45 m 3 H 3.19 dd 1 H 1.85 1.95 m 1H 1.75 1.85 m 1H 1.65 1.75 m 1H 1.45 1.55 m 1H ppm.

A suspension of the sodium NONOate salt of L prolinol 5 0.65 g 3.6 mmol 1.3 eq was prepared in dimethylformamide 6 mL and cooled in ice. A solution of iodomethyl 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoate 2 1.26 g 2.8 mmol 1 eq in dimethylformamide 4 mL was added to the stirred suspension over 4 min then the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr. The dimethylformamide was removed under vacuum at 40 C. then the residue was taken up in ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water 3 30 mL and brine then dried over sodium sulfate. The drying agent was filtered off and the solution was concentrated by rotary evaporation. Purification was effected by liquid chromatography over silica gel eluting with a gradient mixture of hexane ethyl acetate. The product S Z 2 2 4 4 chlorobenzoyl phenoxy 2 methylpropanoyloxy methoxy 1 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl diazene oxide 8 was obtained as a crunchy light yellow foam 0.46 g 32 yield . H NMR CDCl 7.72 d 2 H 7.71 d 2 H 7.45 d 2 H 6.85 d 2 H 5.86 d 1H 5.79 d 1 H 3.90 4.00 m 1 H 3.65 3.70 m 1 H 3.50 3.60 m 1H 3.40 3.50 m 1 H 3.30 3.40 m 1H 2.78 t 1 H 1.80 2.00 m 4 H 1.70 s 6 H ppm.

15 male SD Sprague Dawley rats were allowed to acclimate for at least 3 days. Fenofibrate compounds 6 7 and 8 were administered via oral gavage at molar equivalent doses of 24.8 32 34 33.8 mg kg respectively. Animals were fasted overnight and had their food replaced 4 hours after dosing. Compounds were formulated in 300 L of 100 PEG400. Animals were euthanized under COat the 24 hr time point. Plasma samples were taken for analytical determination of fenofibric acid from compounds in vacutainers containing sodium fluoride. Serum samples were taken for nitric oxide level determination in BD serum collection tubes.

Fenofibric acid was extracted from the plasma using an acetonitrile protein precipitation method. Samples were run on a Waters Aquity TQD LC MS MS and analyzed using the MassLynx software. Nitric Oxide levels were measured in serum using a Nitrate Nitrite Colorimetric Assay Kit from Caymen Chemicals.

Upon oral dosing with compounds 6 7 and 8 a similar fenofibric acid PK profile was demonstrated compared to dosing with fenofibric acid. See . There is no increase in nitric oxide in the plasma upon dosing with fenofibrate. However upon dosing with compounds 6 7 or 8 a robust increase in nitric oxide levels is seen. See .

Thoracic aortic rings were dissected from anesthetized isoflurane male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 275 299 g. Tissues were immediately transferred to ice cold Krebs Henseleit solution which had been aerated with 95 Oand 5 COfor 30 minutes. Following removal of connective tissue aortic sections were cut into 4 rings 2 mm each and suspended on 2 L shaped hooks with one hook fixed at the bottom of the tissue bath Schuler Organ Bath Harvard Apparatus and the other connected to a force transducer F30 Force Transducer Harvard Apparatus . Baths contained Krebs Henseleit solution 10 mL heated to 37 C. and aerated with 95 Oand 5 CO. Rings were brought to an initial tension of 0.3 0.5 g and gradually raised to a resting tension of 1.0 g over 60 minutes. Rings were rinsed with Krebs Henseleit solution heated to 37 C. and aerated with 95 02 and 5 CO at 15 minute intervals until a stable baseline was obtained. Rings were considered to be stable after a resting tension of 1.0 g was maintained for approximately 10 minutes without need for adjustment. Rings were then contracted with 100 ng mL phenylephrine by adding 100 uL of a 10 g mL phenylephrine stock solution. Tissues achieving a stable contraction were then treated in a cumulative dose dependent manner with test compounds prepared in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO . In some cases tissues were rinsed three times over a 5 minute period with Krebs Heinseleit s solution heated to 37 C. and aerated with 95 Oand 5 CO allowed to stabilize at baseline and then used for characterization of other test articles or DMSO effects. All data were collected using the HSE ACAD software provided by Harvard Apparatus. Percent relaxation effects were calculated in Microsoft Excel using the recorded tension value of 100 ng mL phenylephrine treatment as 0 inhibition and treatment with 100 M 3 isobutyl 1 methylxanthine as 100 inhibition. ECvalues were calculated from concentration response curves generated with GraphPad Prism Software. As an alternative thoracic aortic rings assay percent relaxation effects were calculated in Microsoft Excel using the recorded tension value of 100 ng mL phenylephrine treatment as 0 inhibition and after washing the tissue with buffer the original resting tension of the tissue was used as 100 inhibition.

Compounds 6 and 8 were tested in the rat aortic ring assay and were determined to posses potent vasorelaxant properties in the nM range. A control compound ISDN was active in this assay as a vasorelaxant in the micromolar range. See .

Compounds were tested for effects on cholesterol and lipid profiles in a rat high fat diet model for example as described in Ghibaudi et al. 2002 Obes Res 10 956 63 Ricci and Levin 2003 Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 285 R610 8 and Gao et al. 2002 936 87 90. Alternatively animals were fed either a normal diet or a chow supplemented with added fat and or cholesterol as described in Krause et al 1994 Pharm Res VoI 29 No. 4 Nishina 1993 J of Lipid Res vol 43. and Gajda et al. 2007 Animal Lab News. Based on the specific chows used in these reports animals were fed a diet consisting of 40 fat 1 cholesterol and 0.5 cholic acid catalog D01061201 Research Diets New Brunswick N.J. 08901 .

After at least a week on this diet animals 6 8 group are dosed once daily perorally with 500 uL test compounds in PEG 400. Groups are dosed for at least one week before whole blood samples are taken for analysis. Blood serum is analyzed using Vertical Auto Profile VAP Atherotech Inc. Birmingham Ala. analysis similar to as described in Kulkarni 2006 Clin Lab Med 26 787 802.

Fenofibrate Sigma Cat F6020 5G Lot 017K1401 was tested in this assay at 2.2 7.3 and 22 mg kg which were equimolar equivalents for the fenofibric acid moiety of Compound 8 dosed at 3 10 and 30 mg kg. In these experiments animals n 6 per group were fed a high fat high cholesterol chow HFHC 40 fat 1 cholesterol 0.5 cholic acid diet for one week before test compound administration. Animals received either vehicle only PEG 400 or test compound compound 8 at 3 10 or 30 mg kg or fenofibrate at 2.2 7.3 or 22 mg kg for seven days before whole blood samples were taken for analysis.

The test results show compound 8 was associated with dose related increases in HDL and decreases in very low density lipoprotein VLDL cholesterol. These effects of compound 8 were similar to that seen with equimolar doses of Fenofibrate increases in HDL and decreases in VLDL when tested in this assay. Graphical depictions showing the VLDL and HDL analyses for compounds 8 and Fenofibrate are shown in respectively.

36 male SD rats were allowed to acclimate for at least 3 days. After conditioning the rats were arterially cannulated and assigned to 4 treatment groups with the goal of achieving n 6 group.

After the acclimation period the rats were briefly anesthetized with inhaled isoflurane and implanted a small bore femoral artery cannula to permit CV monitoring under conscious unrestrained conditions as conducted in prior studies. 18 rats were cannulated per day on 2 consecutive days and allowed 2 days of post operative recovery prior to CV testing. 12 rats per day were monitored for each of 2 consecutive daily test sessions.

On the morning of the test sessions the rats were placed in individual bell jars and their femoral artery cannulas were attached to pressure transducers. CV monitoring consisted of continuously recording mean arterial pressure MAP and spot checking heart rate HR every 5 to 7 minutes prior to and for 6 hours after a single oral treatment as in previous studies.

Also on the morning of testing 4 oral treatments in 500 l of 100 PEG 400 were formulated. The rats were allowed about 1 hour of equilibration prior to dosing. Once suitably equilibrated each rat was dosed with an oral vehicle or a drug delivered by standard gavage. The CV recording was continued over the 6 hour post treatment interval occasional small flushes of heparinized saline 0.1 mL 20 units mL were administered into their arterial catheters in order to maintain recording fidelity.

At the conclusion of the 6 hour CV monitoring interval a terminal 0.6 mL arterial blood sample was taken and the serum or plasma was processed.

In this assay Compounds 6 7 and 8 were tested and show lowering blood pressure in a normotensive rat model. See .

L NAME induced hypertension model was carried out at Pharmoptima. Based on the rats projected average daily water intake the NO synthase inhibitor L NAME L NG nitroarginine methyl ester which induces hypertension were dissolved in their drinking water so that the rats self administered tested compounds for 2 weeks prior to study at the targeted daily L NAME dosage. The rats L NAME water solution was reformulated every other day to insure potency.

After 2 weeks of oral L NAME preconditioning the rats were anesthetized with inhaled isoflurane 3 4 in oxygen and implanted a small bore femoral artery catheter to permit cardiovascular CV monitoring under conscious unrestrained conditions. A total of 36 rats 18 rats day on two consecutive days were prepared. The catheters were sealed with sodium heparin to maintain patency.

Allow 2 days of post operative recovery prior to study allowing full access to food and water containing dissolved L NAME water.

On the study treatment day 15 rats n 6 5 treatments were set up in bell jars under routine non fasted conditions. Start recording mean arterial pressure MAP and heart rate HR from this first set of cannulated rats as per previous studies conducted by PharmOptima. Once stable the rats were dosed by oral gavage. CV data were recorded from the rats over the ensuing 6 hours. 3 arterial blood samples were taken per rat and the harvested plasma samples were frozen.

In this assay compound 8 was tested at 10 30 and 60 mg kg and lowered blood pressure in an L NAME model of hypertension in a dose responsive manner. In contrast Fenofibrate did not lower blood pressure in the same model. A control compound ISDN isosorbide dinitrate had a moderate blood pressure lowering effect. See .

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

