---

title: Systems and methods for auto-adjust positioning of preferred content for increased click and conversion rates
abstract: A computer-implemented user notification method includes displaying, at user-accessible locations on a graphical display of a mobile device, notifications corresponding to user interest, preference, and frequency of interaction with particular applications or activities on the mobile device. By increasing ease of interaction with particular notifications and advertisements that are of increased importance and relevance for the user, a higher click through and conversion rate is anticipated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09298357&OS=09298357&RS=09298357
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09298357
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130528
---
The use of mobile electronic devices has exploded over the last decade. From mobile devices people make and receive telephone calls send and receive electronic mail surf the web and text with various friends and acquaintances. Today s mobile devices are able to integrate multiple functionalities such as the capability of running multiple applications. In particular some of these applications may generate trigger events that can result in the display of a notification. Because electronic devices can contain many applications the potential for application based notifications can become numerous and unwieldy particularly if a user often using one hand on increasingly sizable screens is required to filter through a list of notifications that have accumulated to find any relevant or important messages.

Accordingly there is a need for a more efficient and intuitive approach for organizing notifications on mobile electronic devices and providing users with instant and easy access to these notifications.

In some embodiments systems and techniques are disclosed that may be used to alert a user of a mobile device about an event such as about the presence of a recently received message e.g. an e mail voice mail or text message or other form of event such as a change in song on a music player running in a background state. In general when a message is first received or another event is triggered a portion of the message may be provided in an area that is outside the main area of a mobile device display such as by scrolling information about the message through a traditional notification bar area of the device. A notification bar area is the typically static area on a device that displays information such as bars for wireless signal strength a remaining battery life indicator an icon that shows the network over which wireless communication is occurring etc. The main area of the graphical display of the mobile device is generally the central largest area of a display where active programs are displayed while supplemental elements are typically displayed around the periphery of the main area or over the main area in pop up windows or similar graphical elements. In particular the electronic device can include a notification module that can interface with one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs to generate various types of notifications while the device is in either a locked state or an unlocked state. Furthermore the notification module can provide options for customizing notification settings.

In some embodiments the mobile device can monitor notifications that are received from multiple applications. Responsive to receiving the notifications the mobile device can control the manner in which the notifications are displayed while the mobile device is operating in a locked or an unlocked state. In some embodiments the mobile device can allow a user to customize how notifications are displayed while the device is in the locked and or the unlocked state. For example the method can further comprise dynamically adjusting the position on the graphical display for notifications and other user interest content based on user interests and preferences. User interests and preferences may be explicitly defined by the user and or may be gauged by implicitly evaluating user experience on the web and other known techniques. In addition notifications can be displayed as a light semi transparent one so as not to intrude the user s experience at any time.

However the traditional notification bar location is not necessarily the most convenient for efficient and easy user access. A user holding a mobile device in one hand is often limited to using only his her opposable thumb to scroll and select particular items on the screen. The limited available mobility restricts the range of easy access for a user to select certain portions of the screen such as the status bar traditionally located at the top of the screen or the central area of the display which can be quite distant from the edge of the screen given the increasing size of mobile devices. In some embodiments the device will dynamically adjust the location of notifications for the user to select based on the dimensions of the mobile device the orientation of the mobile device relative to the user and or techniques for monitoring areas of the screen most often clicked by the user.

Each of the one or more computers and may be distributed and can include various hardware software applications algorithms programs and tools. Depicted computers may also include a hard drive monitor keyboard pointing or selecting device etc. The computers may operate using an operating system such as Windows by Microsoft etc. Each computer may include a central processing unit CPU data storage device and various amounts of memory including RAM and ROM. Depicted computers may also include various programming applications algorithms and software to enable searching search results and advertising such as graphical or banner advertising as well as keyword searching and advertising in a sponsored search context. Many types of advertisements are contemplated including textual advertisements rich advertisements video advertisements etc.

As depicted each of the server computers includes one or more CPUs and a data storage device . The data storage device includes a database and an Auto Adjust Positioning Program .

The Program is intended to broadly include all programming applications algorithms software and other and tools necessary to implement or facilitate methods and systems according to embodiments of the invention. The elements of the Program may exist on a single server computer or be distributed among multiple computers or devices.

Step includes obtaining information including interests preferences and one or more frequent click locations based on user interaction with a mobile device.

Step includes receiving one or more notifications of one or more recent alert events for the mobile device such as any change in status of an application operating on the mobile device or of an account associated with the mobile device. Alert events can include any communication from a remote server reporting a message such as electronic mail chat text messaging voice mail or a posting of data to a shared networked data source.

Step includes determining one or more user accessible locations on a graphical display of the mobile device based on at least one or more physical measurements of the graphical display and the frequent click locations.

Step includes generating information including a subset of the notifications of recent alert events corresponding to at least the interests and preferences based on user interaction data with the mobile device.

Step includes using one or more computers facilitating display of the information including a subset of the notifications of recent alert events at the one or more user accessible locations on the graphical display of the mobile device.

Step includes obtaining information including interests preferences and one or more frequent click locations based on user interaction with a mobile device in which the frequent click locations are based on locations on a graphical display of the mobile device where a user frequently interacts with the mobile device.

Step includes receiving one or more notifications of one or more recent alert events for the mobile device such as any change in status of an application operating on the mobile device or of an account associated with the mobile device. Alert events can include any communication from a remote server reporting a message such as electronic mail chat text messaging voice mail or a posting of data to a shared networked data source.

Step includes determining one or more user accessible locations on a graphical display of the mobile device based on at least one or more physical measurements of the graphical display and the frequent click locations.

Step includes generating information including a subset of the notifications of recent alert events corresponding to at least the interests and preferences based on user interaction data with the mobile device.

Step includes using one or more computers facilitating display of the information including a subset of the notifications of recent alert events at the one or more user accessible locations on the graphical display of the mobile device including display of a semi transparent scrollable list of the subset of notifications arranged in descending order based on the first set of information.

Step includes using one or more computers providing an option for the user to manually add one or more notifications to the subset of notifications in the second set of information.

Some embodiments of the invention include providing or utilizing a convenient location for preferred content or other information to be displayed such as for example based at least in part on a user s interests. For example a social networking Web site notification may arrive on a cell phone such as if a contact sends the user a message. Without techniques according to some embodiments of the invention such a notification could show up less effectively such as bunched ineffectively with other notifications on the device. Some embodiments of the invention however may increase ease of use convenience and engagement of the user. For example the user s Web browsing history interactions on the social networking site and other parameters may be utilized in determining that the message came from for example an identified close friend of the user. As such it may be determined for example that this particular notification may best be isolated from the rest and shown in the middle area of a screen where it may for example be easy to tap it with the thumb left or right hand or perhaps on the left middle for a left handed user or right middle for a right handed user.

Another example could include an offer from a camera company which may be determined to correspond to a user interest which might otherwise get buried in the notification emails but accordingly to an embodiment of the invention may be placed for example in or near the middle of the screen. The notification may have been determined to correspond to a user interest because for instance it may be determined that the user has visited many Web pages including camera related information or deals. In some embodiments one or more machine learning techniques may also be utilized in such as in determining user interests for example.

In some embodiments techniques are utilized that are equally applicable to left handed or right handed users and work equally well for both such as for example placing selected notifications in the middle area of a display. However in some embodiments techniques are utilized or are also utilized that are specific to left handed or right handed users. For example for a left handed user notifications may be placed in the center left area of a display and for right handed users in the center right area of a display for example so as to be more optimally more easily or more quickly reachable by the thumb of the user when the device is in use.

Some embodiments incorporate user personalization such as in determining importance or prioritization of notifications or in selected which notifications to place more prominently etc. For example in some embodiments user Web browsing history or user behavior information may be obtained analyzed and utilized such as in determining user interests etc. and collected information may also be securely stored such as in one or more databases remote from the user device for later use. Furthermore in some embodiments phone settings or associated information may be utilized or incorporated.

Furthermore in some embodiments collected information specific to a user such as device settings Web browsing information interest information etc. may be used even if the user switches or obtains another or a new device such as a new smart phone tablet etc. For example the collected information and other newly collected information can be used in determining notification placement for a different device a new device for cross device applicability if the user switches between devices etc. Also in some embodiments if a particular device may be used by multiple different users the current user may be determined and notification determination performed based on information and preferences relating to that user.

Still further a user s preferences with regard to content or notifications on a particular type of device may also be taken into account. For example a user may be determined to have a preference for longer articles when Web surfing on a PC but may show a preference for short tweets when on a smart phone. In such a case when the user is using the smart phone notifications regarding tweets or the tweets themselves may be displayed prominently etc.

In addition to notifications some embodiments of the invention include providing customized content and payout Web page presentation Web personalization etc. for example to move or bring selected content within easy reach of the user or the user s thumb such as in the middle left middle or right middle of a display for example.

User interests and preferences and associated weightings etc. may be used in such selection which can in some embodiments be viewed as applying a filter in which only certain items are displayed most prominently for example. In some embodiments use of such filtering can be viewed as promoting greater user interest and interaction and therefore may lead to greater monetization and profit.

While the invention is described with reference to the above drawings the drawings are intended to be illustrative and the invention contemplates other embodiments within the spirit of the invention.

