---

title: Persistent network negotiation for peer to peer devices
abstract: A device may communicate with a peer-to-peer (P2P) network prior to associating with that network. The communications prior to association may include information about whether the P2P network is persistent or non-persistent. The information may include a persistent group intent field that identifies whether a device would prefer to join a persistent P2P network and allows a P2P network to advertise whether it is persistent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301127&OS=09301127&RS=09301127
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09301127
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority as a non provisional application to Provisional Application No. 61 761 576 filed on Feb. 6 2013 entitled Persistent Network Negotiation for Peer to Peer Devices the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Wireless network deployments such as wireless local area networks WLANs allow mobile devices to access network and Internet services when within proximity of wireless communication signals of those wireless networks. Peer to peer P2P networks allow connectivity between individual devices. In one example a P2P network may be referred to as a group and include a group owner GO that is the master device for the group that may manage signaling timing clock synchronization etc. and establish certain group settings e.g. the group may be set as a persistent group or a non persistent group . A non persistent group only lasts i.e. remains intact as a group as long as a device is in communication range of the group and other devices within the group. A non persistent group treats a device that wants to re join as if the device is a new device joining the group for the first time. In contrast a persistent group is a group in which the group owner and or other devices within the group are able to store persistent information related to the group. In other words the term persistence when used in reference to a persistent or a non persistent group implies the ability or lack of ability of a group owner and or group member to store information associated with that group as well as information associated with the devices that join the group. Therefore information for joining the group may persist i.e. remain stored within a device for a persistent group. In one embodiment the P2P network may utilize either wireless fidelity Wi Fi or Wireless LAN WLAN between wireless devices. For example the Wi Fi Alliance WFA established guidelines for peer to peer connectivity between Wi Fi enabled devices that is referred to as Wi Fi Direct and outlined in the Wi Fi Peer to Peer P2P Technical Specification from 2010.

The disclosed systems and methods allow mobile devices or wireless devices to communicate with a peer to peer P2P network or group prior to negotiating which device will become group owner group owner negotiation of that P2P network. The communications prior to group owner negotiation may include information about whether the P2P network or group is persistent or non persistent. The information may include a persistent group intent field that identifies whether a device would prefer to join a persistent P2P network or group and allows a P2P network or group to advertise whether the P2P network or group is persistent.

The communication between a wireless device and a P2P network group may be through Wi Fi or WLAN protocols. The wireless device and a group or a group owner may communicate prior to the wireless device joining the group. These communications that occur prior to the device joining the group are preceded by a discovery phase which may include discovery communications or discovery information and is followed by association communications in which a device associates with the group after joining the group. Group owner negotiation may be part of the joining process. A persistent group intent PGI field may be communicated prior to a device joining a particular group.

Wireless or mobile devices that communicate prior to joining a group may include mobile communication devices mobile computing devices fixed computing devices or any other device capable of communicating wirelessly with a wireless network. Such devices may also be referred to as terminals mobile devices stations STA or user equipment and may also include mobile smart phones e.g. a BlackBerry smart phone BlackBerry Playbook or BlackBerry Mobile Computer wireless personal digital assistants PDA machine to machine equipment equipment within a smart grid SmartGrid printers displays equipment within a mesh network an ad hoc or peer network laptop tablet notebook netbook computers with wireless adapters etc. illustrates one embodiment of a mobile device or terminal.

As described a P2P network or group may include one or more wireless devices. The connection for the network or group may be through a wireless network such as with WLAN protocols. In one embodiment a group may be established for certain devices connected to a WLAN. In alternative devices the devices may discover information about other networks groups through other protocols and architectures including a cellular network or a WiMax network. The group may be part of a network which may further comprise a publicly accessible network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols. The networks may include any communication method or employ any form of machine readable media for communicating information from one device to another.

The communications may be pre joining which means that the wireless device has not joined one of the groups but still communicates with the groups prior to joining. Likewise the communications may be pre association which means that the wireless device is not associated with one of the groups but still communicates with the groups prior to association. The communications may be at any stage of the group pre association process including where the wireless device has not yet joined a group and or where negotiation with the GO are not complete and may further include a find phase scan phase and or the time period when the wireless device is in a listen state.

Through pre joining communications the wireless device may retrieve information about the available groups . Likewise the wireless device may transmit information about potential features required for the wireless device to connect with or join a particular group. The communications illustrated and described below are transmitted before the wireless device joins a particular group. Those communications i.e. the pre joining communications may also be referred to as discovery communications. In one embodiment the pre joining communications may include information about a persistent state of the groups . Likewise the wireless device may communicate its preferences regarding joining a persistent or non persistent network.

Persistency refers to whether a group is set as a persistent group or a non persistent group. A persistent group is a P2P peer group with a group owner GO and other devices are able to store persistent information specifically related to that group. In a persistent group the GO and other devices of that group store persistent information e.g. credentials group owner identity etc. in order to form a persistent P2P group PPG . The credentials may include encryption keys identifiers or other information. The PPG may terminate because a device is disconnected from the group as a result of a positive action within the group or if the GO and the device lose mutual connectivity e.g. a reduction in signal strength or quality results due to a radio fade or interference . If one of the devices previously connected to the PPG re discovers the same PPG it may use its stored persistence information e.g. credentials to re connect to the PPG. Since the credentials were stored the device may omit some or all of the negotiation and or authentication steps in the process of re joining the PPG. Conversely an attempt by a device that was previously connected to a non persistent group to re connect with that non persistent group includes the entire negotiation authentication process as if the device was never previously connected with the group. In other words the term persistent with regards to whether a group is persistent or non persistent equates to the ability or inability of a group owner and or group member to store information associated with that group as well as information associated with the devices that join the group.

Accordingly illustrates that pre joining information may be transmitted between a device and a group or GO while the device is deciding whether to join the group. Previously persistency information was only transmitted to from a candidate device once that candidate was connected with a group. In one embodiment the communication of information e.g. a persistent group intent PGI value regarding persistency may be transmitted as part of a Persistent Group Intent PGI field. The PGI value may indicate whether a device intends i.e. possesses an intent to store persistent P2P group PPG information and or a desire that the group when established uses persistence. The PGI value may be part of a connection capability field as shown in Table 1 below 

The PGI bit field which includes a PGI bit set to the PGI value may be transmitted prior to P2P group association or prior to a device joining the group. A device sets the PGI value of a PGI bit within the PGI field to 1 in the Connection Capabilities Attribute to indicate that the device intends to store persistent information e.g. credentials when a P2P group is established. If a device sets the PGI value to 0 the device is not intending i.e. lacks the intent or does not possess the intent to store persistent information. Alternative bits and or fields may be used to convey the intent or lack of intent of a device to store persistent information including a PGI value which may be transmitted in an attribute other than the connection capability field as illustrated in the example of Table 1. In particular the signaling described in these embodiments may be incorporated in any existing or new frame which may be transmitted or received by a device prior to joining a group.

The candidate device may be a device which is capable of receiving advertisements e.g. an advertisement including a PGI bit associated with the group from another peer device including a GO such as GO during pre joining or discovery communications. The candidate device may not be connected to a group during these communications and negotiations. In one example the candidate device may desire to join a persistent network but during pre joining or discovery communications with the group the candidate device may determine based on a value of a PGI bit received from the GO that persistence is not enabled within the group and the candidate device may then decide to decline to join the group . The candidate device may then attempt to find and join an alternative network which the candidate device determines to be persistent. In other implementations the candidate device desiring to join a persistent network may decide to join the group even after determining that persistence is not enabled within the group . In one embodiment the group or the GO on behalf of the group advertises e.g. broadcasts unicasts or multicasts the persistence information e.g. a PGI bit having a PGI value to device s within communication range of the group .

Wireless devices e.g. the wireless device of or the candidate devices of may communicate prior to joining a group i.e. pre joining communications . The inclusion of pre joining communications on the MAC sub layer may allow for a mobile device to communicate with a group or other devices before joining a group. In particular the persistence information that is advertised during pre joining communications may be exchanged at the MAC sub layer . A wireless device may access information from a memory or other hardware of the mobile device at the MAC sub layer without needing to perform operations at or above an internet protocol layer e.g. a network layer and without needing to provide access to the internet protocol layer. Low level resource operations at the MAC sub layer require relatively fewer system resources than user interface intensive and operating system intensive operations e.g. web browser operations at an application layer.

The wireless device also includes a terminal message generator and a terminal data parser . The terminal message generator may generate discovery messages such as the pre joining communications shown in . The terminal data parser may be used to retrieve network information from memory e.g. random access memory etc. . For example the terminal data parser may request discovery information e.g. persistent state information for one or more groups from a network group.

In the illustrated embodiment the terminal message generator and the terminal data parser are shown as separate from and connected to the processor . In alternative embodiments the terminal message generator and the terminal data parser may be implemented in the processor and or in a wireless communication subsystem e.g. a wireless communication subsystem . The terminal message generator and the terminal data parser may be implemented using any combination of hardware firmware and or software. For example one or more integrated circuits discrete semiconductor components and or passive electronic components may be used. For example the terminal message generator and the terminal data parser or parts thereof may be implemented using one or more circuits programmable processors application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable logic devices etc.

The terminal message generator and the terminal data parser or parts thereof may be implemented using instructions code and or other software and or firmware etc. stored on a machine accessible medium and executable by for example a processor e.g. the processor . The terminal message generator or the terminal data parser may be stored on or include a tangible storage medium or memory. For example the terminal message generator or the terminal data parser may be implemented in software stored on a memory that is executable by the processor . Alternatively the terminal message generator and or the terminal data parser may be implemented in hardware with software functions. The memory for storing software associated with the terminal message generator and or the terminal data parser may include but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one embodiment the memory may include the random access memory for the processor or may be an external storage device or database for storing recorded ad or user data. Examples include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store user data. The memory is operable to store instructions executable by the processor .

The wireless device may include a FLASH memory a random access memory and or an expandable memory interface coupled with the processor . The FLASH memory may store computer readable instructions and or data. In some embodiments the FLASH memory and or the RAM may store the discovery communications service information from and instructions for communicating that information. The processor may be coupled with the memory e.g. the FLASH memory or the RAM for storing software instructions executable by the processor . The memory may include but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory. The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instruction set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firm ware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

The wireless device may include a security hardware interface to receive a SIM card from a wireless service provider. A SIM card may be used for service discovery communications including authentication of the wireless device for establishing a connection with a WLAN supported network. The wireless device may be provided with an external data I O interface . The external data I O interface may be used by a user to transfer information to the wireless device through a wired medium.

The wireless device may include wireless communication subsystem to enable wireless communications with other devices or with a P2P group network. Although not shown the wireless device may also have a long range communication subsystem to receive messages from and send messages to a cellular wireless network. In the illustrated examples described herein the wireless communication subsystem can be configured in accordance with the IEEE 802.11 standard. In other example implementations the wireless communication subsystem may be implemented using a BLUETOOTH radio a ZIGBEE device a wireless USB device an ultra wideband radio a Near Field Communications NFC device or a Radio Frequency Identifier RFID device.

The wireless device may include a user interface for communicating to from the device. The user interface may be separate component or it may include a speaker a microphone a display and a user input interface . The display may be a liquid crystal display an organic light emitting diode a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The user input interface may include alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad a multi direction actuator or roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability a touch panel etc. The P2P discovery information that is communicated with a network prior to connection may be communicated with or without each of the user interfaces described herein. The speaker the microphone the display the user input interface and or any combination thereof may be omitted in alternative embodiments. In one embodiment the wireless device is a battery powered device and includes a battery and a battery interface .

First an application specific indication e.g. exposed at an Application Programming Interface API or the identity nature and or type of an application may be considered in the determination as to whether the group which the candidate device joins should or should not be persistent. As such the determination of whether the candidate device desires to join a persistent group or a non persistent group is made based on the application s or signaling from the application s . In some implementations the application s or signaling from the application s may in fact trigger the P2P group discovery process.

Second there may be a user provided input e.g. the user is given a choice prior to joining the group or the user administrator may be able to configure settings within the device etc. regarding the desire for group persistence. The input may be provided via a User Interface UI on the device and may be pre configured or be configured remotely.

Third there may be a service specific indication e.g. for Wi Fi Direct Services WFDS or IEEE 802.11aq Pre Association Discovery PAD . For example the candidate device may determine based on a service service type or service identifier that the candidate device desires that a group be persistent. As one example joining a group may be for the purposes of accessing a service such as a printing service.

Fourth the determination regarding which type of group the candidate device would like to join may be triggered based on hardware configuration. The determination may depend on the state of other communications protocols in the candidate device. For example when associated with a Bluetooth pairing connection the candidate device may determine that group persistence should be used. As another example when establishing a connection in response to a near field communications NFC procedure the candidate device may determine that persistence should not be used.

Fifth the determination may be location specific and therefore based on location information such as Global Positioning System signals or data GPS a cellular network cell ID or country code or IEEE 802.11 location information or country code. The candidate device may determine that any group the device joins should or should not be persistent if the user is at a home location or a location where a previous or alternative determination e.g. user provided input indicated a desire for the use or desire for no use of PPGs.

Rules governing one or more of the candidate device s preferences listed above may be described by one or more group persistence policies that are set i.e. configured on the candidate device which may be set by the user an administrator or any other third party with rights to do so. Following the determination in block the candidate device may take different actions depending on whether the candidate device has determined that it should connect or desires to connect to either a persistent P2P group PPG or a non persistent P2P group non PPG in block . If the candidate device s desire or requirement determination or policy is for a PPG the candidate device indicates this request in signaling or communications sent prior to group formation e.g. by setting the value of the PGI bit to 1 in block . The candidate device subsequently proceeds with group discovery using the value of the PGI bit set to 1 in block . In block there may be an optional intent level that provides an objective measure of a candidate device s desire or ability to be a GO for a group. A desire to be part of a persistent group results in an increase intent level for that device upon joining a persistent group. If the desire is for a non PPG the candidate device sets the value of the PGI bit to 0 as in block and proceeds with group discover. In block the intent level is optionally decreased because the device desires to join a non persistent network.

Optionally the communications or signaling for the determination in block may allow for a distinction to be drawn between a device which 1 desires the use of persistence 2 desires that persistence not be used 3 has no preference on whether or not persistence should be used 4 has a policy to not join or not remain in any group unless persistence is enabled and 5 has a policy to not join or not remain in any group unless persistence is disabled. Subsets or supersets of the above scenarios are also possible.

In an alternative embodiment a device indicating a desire and or policy to join a group with persistence enabled may in response to determining that the established group does not use persistence decline to join the group. Likewise a device indicating a desire and or having a policy requirement to join a group with persistence disabled may in response to determining that the established group does use persistence decline to join the group. A device sending such an indication may do so prior to the determination of which device becomes the group owner GO for the group. In some embodiments if the device subsequently becomes GO the device may use the outcome of the determination in block to determine whether persistence should be enabled for the group and may then use this outcome to set a value e.g. set the value to 1 or 0 of a Persistent Reconnect bit in the Group Capabilities Bitmap field that the device sends describing the P2P group capabilities. The value of the Persistent Reconnect bit may be set to 1 when the P2P device is hosting or intends to host a persistent P2P group that allows reconnection without user intervention. Otherwise the value of the Persistent Reconnect bit is set to zero.

Other embodiments by which a GO determines whether persistence should be enabled are described below. illustrates a process by which a GO determines persistence. illustrates a process for by which a GO decides persistence. When a GO establishes a group there may not be a mechanism available for it to receive an indication from another peer device within that group as to whether the group should be persistent. In such an instance the GO s autonomous decision to establish a PPG or to not establish a PPG may not take into account the preferences policies of peer devices within the group.

A device becomes a GO of a new group in block . In becoming GO the process may for example follow a GO negotiation algorithm or may follow a modified version of this process or may follow an alternative process. If a group persistence preference e.g. the PGI bit within that GO device is set to a value of 1 as in block the group becomes a PPG in block . In some embodiments e.g. if the PGI bit sent by the GO device is set to a value of 0 in block the GO may then consider the indications of other candidate devices in block with respect to their intent or desire to connect to a PPG e.g. whether they are advertising their PGI bits equal 1 . The GO may then decide to establish a PPG in block or a non persistent group in block based on any appropriate algorithm taking into account the indications of other devices. In an alternative embodiment the indications of other devices and its own preference will be used for determining persistence. Additional algorithms or embodiments for determining persistence include 1 majority voting 2 a presumption to enable persistence unless all devices indicate a preference otherwise or no preference and or 3 presumption to disable persistence unless all devices indicate a preference otherwise or no preference . Accordingly establishes that the GO can determine persistence based on a number of devices within a group while established that a single peer device can be used to determine persistence.

For an alternative method in block the GO may be established based at least partially on GO intent level as discussed above with respect to blocks and of . The higher a GO intent level the more likely a device is to become GO. In one alternative embodiment a device may set its GO intent level in accordance with its desire to form join a persistent or non persistent group e.g. as determined in block . For example the device might carry out the following steps 1 determine a desire to join a persistent or non persistent group 2 optionally determine a GO intent level according to other inputs may be unrelated to persistence 3 if the device desires to join a persistent group increase the GO intent level 4 if the device desires to join a non persistent group decrease the GO intent level 5 transmit the GO intent level and 6 perform GO negotiation based on GO intent level. In some embodiments the signaled GO intent level may depend on the signaled indication for persistence e.g. the PGI bit . If different levels of desire are configured e.g. preference vs. policy the GO intent level may be modified by multiple different degrees depending on the extent to which the device wishes to join a persistent or non persistent group. In addition to a GO intent level there may be a persistence intent level or persistence group intent level that measures a device s desired intent to be part of a persistent group. In one embodiment the persistence intent level may the same as or similar to the GO intent level in terms of how the intent level is determined. The persistence intent level may be advertised or communicated prior to joining a group and used in GO negotiation.

In an alternative embodiment the setting of a PGI bit of a device may be used directly within the GO negotiation either instead of or together with the transmitted GO intent values. For example the PGI bit may be used as the basis of a tie breaker if GO intent levels indicated by two or more peers are equal. In this alternative embodiment the device may carry out the following steps 1 determine a desire to join a persistent group 2 optionally determine a GO intent level according to other inputs may be unrelated to persistence 3 optionally transmit the intent level 4 transmit an indication of a desire to join a persistent or non persistent group i.e. a group persistence preference and 5 perform GO negotiation based on at least the indicated group persistence preference s as transmitted by device and peers and optionally based on intent levels.

If no group explicitly indicates the use of persistence the device may select a group for which no explicit indication is given. Similarly if the device determined that it should join a group which does not use persistence the selection may be made by prioritizing those groups where persistence is indicated explicitly as not being in use. For example groups may be prioritized as 1 groups where persistence is explicitly indicated as being in use 2 groups where no explicit indication is made and 3 groups where persistence is indicated explicitly as not being in use. If the device subsequently leaves e.g. disconnects from or is disconnected from a PPG to which it previously was connected in block it may reconnect after some time passes. If neither group advertises persistent storage then the candidate device may use an alternate means e.g. a random tie break to determine which of the groups to connect with if any as in block .

The systems and methods described above may be modified for backwards compatibility with legacy devices. Legacy devices may automatically set any previously undefined or reserved bits as zero. There may need to be an additional indication e.g. 1 bit that indicates that persistence is set in another bit PGI bit . For example there may be a total of 2 bits that are employed that include a PGI bit valid indication which is set to 1 by a device supporting the PGI bit. The second bit would be the indication itself i.e. the PGI bit . Effectively the PGI bit valid bit is an indication of a device s capability to support PGI signaling and the pre joining communications discussed above. A device supporting PGI may indicate that the PGI bit is not valid if it has no preference regarding whether persistence is enabled for the group. Similarly for an established group a legacy device in the group will indicate PGI bit valid 0 while a device supporting the feature indicates PGI bit valid 1. This may avoid ambiguity as to whether the device is a legacy device not supporting the new PGI bit or a supporting device indicating that persistence is not desired or is not in use in an existing group .

The embodiments described above may allow a wireless device to determine and indicate whether it prefers to join a group for which persistence is enabled or to join a group for which persistence is disabled prior to group formation. The embodiments described may further allow a group owner GO to take into account the desires preferences policies of its peers when establishing a group specifically with regards to determining whether or not to enable persistence in the group. This avoids the GO storing credentials for devices which do not wish to use persistence and may therefore discard the group credentials on leaving the group . Similarly it may avoid the creation or joining of a group which does does not use persistence in contradiction to a member device s desire policy and the subsequent departure of that device resulting in wasted signaling and battery consumption. Other embodiments may enhance the GO negotiation process so that it is more likely that a device wishing to enable persistence becomes GO which avoids a device which does not wish to use persistence from being expected requested by its peers to enable persistence for the group. Other embodiments may allow a device to determine whether persistence is used in an existing group prior to joining that group which further allows a device i to determine whether or not to join a group and or ii to preferentially select a group operating in line with its preferences policy.

The system and process described may be encoded in a signal bearing medium a computer readable medium such as a memory programmed within a device such as one or more integrated circuits and one or more processors or processed by a controller or a computer. If the methods are performed by software the software may reside in a memory resident to or interfaced to a storage device synchronizer a communication interface or non volatile or volatile memory in communication with a transmitter. A circuit or electronic device designed to send data to another location. The memory may include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. A logical function or any system element described may be implemented through optic circuitry digital circuitry through source code through analog circuitry through an analog source such as an analog electrical audio or video signal or a combination. The software may be embodied in any computer readable or signal bearing medium for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. Such a system may include a computer based system a processor containing system or another system that may selectively fetch instructions from an instruction executable system apparatus or device that may also execute instructions.

A computer readable medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium may comprise any device that includes stores communicates propagates or transports software for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. A non exhaustive list of examples of a machine readable medium would include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable magnetic or optical disk a volatile memory such as a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM an Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM or Flash memory or an optical fiber. A machine readable medium may also include a tangible medium upon which software is printed as the software may be electronically stored as an image or in another format e.g. through an optical scan then compiled and or interpreted or otherwise processed. The processed medium may then be stored in a computer and or machine memory.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

