---

title: System and method of determining rock properties using terahertz-band dielectric measurements
abstract: A method of analyzing physical properties of a sample includes obtaining the sample and obtaining an electromagnetic spectrum of the sample using terahertz spectroscopy. A sample complex permittivity is computed from the electromagnetic spectrum of the sample. The method further includes estimating the constituents and the constituent fractions and computing an estimated effective complex permittivity based upon a model and the constituent fractions. The method further includes comparing the computed sample complex permittivity with the estimated effective complex permittivity in order to determine the physical properties the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513213&OS=09513213&RS=09513213
owner: SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
number: 09513213
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130808
---
Measurements of the dielectric constants of materials at different frequencies are used in many different measurement schemes. For example capacitance measurements at low frequencies are used to distinguish between oil and water. In the oil and gas sectors for example dielectric scanners may measure these constants at frequencies up to 1 2 GHz to determine water volume and rock properties. In addition Fourier transform infrared FTIR measurements in the infrared region may be used to determine mineralogy of core samples.

Other measurements demanding sample preparation such as those utilizing helium pycnometry are unable to provide accurate results in the case of unconventional oil and gas reservoirs that possess low permeability. Nuclear magnetic resonance NMR based measurements of pore volume may be used but are often limited by the small pores in unconventional samples that cause fast relaxation times in the NMR signal that are difficult to accurately measure. Commercial measurements today are generally based on utilizing crushed samples but these techniques both add uncertainty due to the crushing process and also are destructive measurements may demand extensive sample preparation.

Other techniques for identifying the mineralogy of core samples include diffuse reflective infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy DRIFTS . However due to similarity of FTIR spectrum of smectite and illite samples DRIFTS is unable to accurately distinguish between these notable constituents of shale beds. Similar issues in accurately determining the concentrations of illite and smectite have been observed in measurements taken with X ray diffraction XRD .

Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a method for determining rock properties using terahertz band dielectric measurements. The method includes obtaining an unknown sample and obtaining an electromagnetic spectrum of the unknown sample using terahertz spectroscopy. An unknown sample complex permittivity is computed from the electromagnetic spectrum of the unknown sample. The method further includes estimating the constituents and constituent fractions and computing an estimated effective complex permittivity based upon a model and the constituent fractions. The method further includes comparing the computed unknown sample complex permittivity with the estimated effective complex permittivity in order to determine the physical properties the unknown sample.

Also various embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to a system for determining rock properties using terahertz band dielectric measurements. The system includes a THz spectrometer that may obtain a THz spectrum of an unknown sample. The system also includes an analysis module that receives an electromagnetic spectrum of the unknown sample. In accordance with one or more embodiments the electromagnetic spectrum includes a terahertz spectrum and the analysis module may compute an unknown sample complex permittivity from the electromagnetic spectrum of the unknown sample. The analysis module may further estimate constituents and constituent fractions of the unknown sample. The analysis module may further compute an estimated effective complex permittivity based upon a model and the constituent fractions and compare the computed unknown sample complex permittivity with the estimated effective complex permittivity in order to determine the physical properties the unknown sample.

Illustrative embodiments are directed to a system of determining rock properties using terahertz band dielectric measurements that includes a non transitory computer readable medium. The computer readable medium includes computer readable program code embodied therein that when executed on a processor causes the processor to receive an electromagnetic spectrum of an unknown sample and compute an unknown sample complex permittivity from the electromagnetic spectrum of the unknown sample estimate constituents and constituent fractions of the unknown sample compute an estimated effective complex permittivity based upon a model and the constituent fractions and compare the computed unknown sample complex permittivity with the estimated effective complex permittivity in order to determine the physical properties the unknown sample.

Other aspects of the disclosure will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Dielectric constant measurements can provide information such as specific resonances of constituent minerals and molecules and thus such measurements are ideal for identifying detailed sample composition. Furthermore trends in the collective behavior of the measured dielectric constant as a function of frequency may reveal information that can distinguish between distinct classes of materials such as oil versus water or sandstone versus clays.

In general in accordance with one or more embodiments the present disclosure is directed to systems and methods for the determination of rock properties using terahertz band dielectric measurements. Different materials e.g. rocks minerals fluids etc. have substantially different dielectric properties in the terahertz THz frequency range approximately 0.08 THz 10 THz . These differing responses depend in part on the composition and structure of the material. Thus by measuring the dielectric constant of an unknown rock sample as a function of THz frequency and then inverting an effective medium theory or dielectric mixing law the volume fractions of the constituents of an unknown sample may be determined. For example in the case of an unknown sample e.g. a core sample obtained from a location that includes an unconventional oil and gas reservoir the relative fraction of various clays may be of great importance. In accordance with one or more embodiments the present disclosure is directed to a system and method that can determine the fraction of illite and smectite in an unconventional sample using terahertz band dielectric measurements. In addition in accordance with one or more embodiments the present disclosure is directed to a system and method for determining the volume fraction of crude oil natural gas water and or rock matrix in an unknown sample using terahertz band dielectric measurements. In addition the systems and methods described herein may be used to determine the porosity and water saturation in a low permeability unconventional core sample. In various embodiments the systems and methods disclosed herein allow for the investigation of unknown rock samples in situ meaning that in one or more embodiments the measurements do not involve replacing the component fluids in the sample with different components and thus the disclosed systems and methods may be used to determine the properties of an untreated or unmodified rock sample i.e. as it occurs in the field including but not limited to the identification of unmodified low permeability rock that is often present in unconventional oil and gas reservoirs.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the THz spectrometer system is configured to obtain a terahertz time domain spectrum THz TDS spectrum of a rock sample obtained from the field e.g. by way of a downhole coring tool or from cuttings retrieved during drilling. In accordance with one or more embodiments the analysis module is configured to receive a THz TDS spectrum and to determine one or more properties of the rock sample based on the THz TDS spectrum. More precisely the analysis module includes a dielectric permittivity estimation engine that determines the complex permittivity of the sample based on the THz TDS spectrum. Once the complex permittivity of the sample is determined by the dielectric permittivity estimation engine a sample modeling engine constructs a model complex permittivity based on the measured complex permittivity. In accordance with one or more embodiments the model complex permittivity may be based on one or more external input parameters related to known physical properties of the sample that are input by a user.

The model complex permittivity may be formed from combining one or more rock constituents by way of an effective medium theory and or a dielectric mixing law. More precisely the model may be formed by combining two or more rock types and or fluid types including both oil and gas having previously known or measured complex permitivities that are stored in the data repository which itself may include a dielectric constant database and a rock matrix database . In one or more embodiments the data repository is any type of storage unit and or device e.g. a file system database collection of tables or any other storage mechanism for storing data. Further the data repository may include multiple different storage units and or devices. The multiple different storage units and or devices may or may not be of the same type or located at the same physical site. Furthermore in accordance with one or more embodiments the data repository includes functionality to store one or more previously measured frequency dependent complex permitivities for various materials such as fluids minerals and rock matrix types. For example as shown in the data repository may include a dielectric constant database and a rock matrix database that store the previously measured frequency dependent complex permitivities. In addition to being accessed from the data repository the identity and or physical properties of one or more of the constituents in the model may be input directly by a user if already known e.g. through the use of previous measurements. The use of previously known constituents may serve to increase the speed and accuracy of the computational procedure used to determine the model complex permittivity based on the measured complex permittivity.

Once an initial model is constructed using data from the data repository and or user input an error estimation engine computes the error between the model complex permittivity and the measured complex permittivity. In accordance with one or more embodiments if the computed error is above a predetermined threshold the volume fractions of the constituents that make up the model are adjusted and an updated model is computed by the sample modeling engine . The error determination engine then recomputes the error between the updated model and the measured complex permittivity. This iterative process of 1 update model and 2 compute error proceeds until the computed error drops below the predetermined threshold at which time the error determination engine outputs the model parameters including the constituent identities and volume fractions of the model. In accordance with other embodiments the iterative process may proceed until the model constituent values e.g. the volume fractions converge to stable values. Thus the volume fractions that lead to an accurate estimate of the volume fractions and constituents that make up the sample are determined numerically by way of the analysis module .

While shows a configuration of components other configurations may be used without departing from the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein. For example various components may be combined to create a single component. As another example the functionality performed by a single component may be performed by two or more components.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the emitter includes two gold strip lines not shown separated by 10 m to 1 mm that are patterned on a gallium arsenide GaAs substrate. The femtosecond pulses from the oscillator are tightly focused in the center of the strip lines while a bias voltage is applied across the strip lines. In accordance with one or more embodiments the bias voltage is used to accelerate photo induced free carriers to generate a resulting current that generates a THz pulse and may be approximately of 50 V 1 kV. The detector is configured to receive the THz pulse after it has passed through the sample . In this example another parabolic mirror is used to direct the pulse onto the detector . The detector operates on inverse principles and includes a dipole antenna of length 5 to 100 m. In one such embodiment instead of biasing the antenna externally the THz pulse s electric field generates a current that is measured and is proportional to the electric field at the specific temporal delay. In accordance with one or more embodiments the detector is patterned on a custom grown substrate of erbium arsenide ErAs nanoisland superlattices embedded in gallium arsenide GaAs . Furthermore in accordance with one or more embodiments the design of the superlattices may be optimized to have a minimum carrier lifetime. After passing through the sample the femtosecond pulses are tightly focused in the gap of the dipole antenna of detector . In accordance with one or more embodiments a lock in amplifier not shown measures the current generated in the dipole antenna gap of the detector due to the incoming THz pulse. Furthermore in one or more embodiments several high resistivity silicon hyper hemispheres not shown are pressed to the back of the substrates of emitter and detector in order to efficiently couple the THz radiation into and out from the emitter and detector antennas respectively. The resulting THz pulses contain frequency content from 0.1 3 THz.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the physical parameters of the sample may be determined from THz spectra e.g. spectra similar to those shown in . Furthermore one or more embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the THz TDS systems used as examples herein. For example the THz spectra may be obtained using any type of THz spectrometer including e.g. continuous wave CW microwave based systems or the like. In accordance with one or more embodiments the THz TDS spectra are used to estimate the complex index of refraction of the sample n i where n is the frequency dependent real refractive index of the unknown sample is the frequency dependent extinction coefficient of the unknown sample and 2 f where f is the frequency of the electromagnetic radiation interacting with the material. Furthermore the frequency dependent extinction coefficient can be written in terms of a frequency dependent absorption coefficient 2 c. shows the magnitude and phase of the transfer function of the unknown sample obtained by dividing the Fourier transform of the sample scan by the Fourier transform of the reference scan. As is described in more detail below the real part of the transfer function is related to of the sample while the imaginary part of the transfer function is related to n of the sample. shows the index of refraction i.e. n and absorption coefficient i.e. as computed from the transfer function as described in more detail below.

Furthermore in accordance with one or more embodiments as plotted in may be determined numerically from a measured THz TDS spectrum by constructing a numerical model of the measured THz TDS spectrum based upon an estimated complex index of refraction and then optimizing the estimated complex index of refraction by minimizing the error between the estimated and measured complex indices of refraction. In other words the optimal estimated complex index of refraction is found to be the estimated complex index of refraction that produces a model THz TDS spectrum that most closely matches the measured spectrum. Any known method may be used to determine the estimated complex index of refraction from the measured sample and one example of such a procedure is described in detail below. Once the estimated complex index of refraction is obtained the complex permittivity may be determined using known relationships between the real and imaginary parts of the complex permittivity and respectively and the index of refraction n and absorption coefficient 

Once the complex permittivity is determined the volume fractions of the sample constituents may be determined using an effective medium theory and or dielectric mixing law as described in more detail below. More specifically a dielectric mixing law may be used to combine a set of reference measurements thereby forming a model frequency dependent complex permittivity that is then compared to the complex permittivity determined from the THz spectrum measurements. For example the reference measurements may be stored in memory e.g. in a database such as dielectric constant database and or rock matrix database or may be both stored in a single database. Examples of reference measurements are shown in . The final estimate for the volume fractions of the combination of reference materials is the combination of reference measurements that yields the lowest error match to the measured complex permittivity. The type of the constituents within the sample is an example of a physical property of the sample. Also the final estimate of the constituent volume fractions is another example of a physical property of the sample. Furthermore from the final estimates of the volume fractions other physical properties of the sample may be determined e.g. the porosity and water saturation may be determined. As used herein porosity is defined as V Vwhere Vis the void volume in the sample and Vis the total volume of the sample. Porosity is thus given by an estimate of the volume fraction of the rock matrix f. Water saturation S is defined as S V Vwhere Vis the volume of water in the sample. Water saturation is thus given by S f 1 f where fis an estimate of the volume fraction of water in the sample.

In accordance with one or more embodiments the complex index of refraction of the unknown sample may be determined from the THz TDS spectrum as described below. With the THz TDS spectrometer operating in transmission mode as shown above in reference to a THz pulse that has propagated through a sample may be written as 3 where denotes the convolution operator.

In other words the measured pulse e t measured after passing through the sample may be written as a convolution of the initial pulse e t with a pulse response function of the sample given by h t . Furthermore the response function h t depends on the material parameters of the unknown sample. Then according to the convolution theorem Eq. 3 may be written in the frequency domain as 4 Thus in a manner that corresponds to the response function h t the transfer function H depends on the material parameters of the sample. Accordingly Eq. 3 may be rewritten in the form of an inverse Fourier transform

In accordance with one or more embodiments a model pulse e t may be constructed from Eq. 5 using a model transfer function H that itself depends on the model complex refractive index n i . The complex refractive index may then be found numerically by finding the model refractive index that minimizes the error between e t and e t . In accordance with one or more embodiments the error function used for the minimization may be of the form

In accordance with one or more embodiments the model pulse may be constructed in the Fourier domain with the help of Eq. 4 7 and the model pulse may be reconstructed in the time domain using Eq. 3 or

There are many different ways to construct E using model material parameters without departing from the scope for the present disclosure. For example the discussion in Li et al. Precisely sic optical material parameter determination by time domain waveform rebuilding with THz time domain spectroscopy Optics Communications 283 4701 2010 describes one such method a portion of which is summarized here for convenience. As described in Li et al. multiple Fresnel reflections from the air sample and or sample air interfaces may be taken into account for maximum accuracy depending on the temporal length of the THz acquisition. In accordance with one or more embodiments the Fourier transform of the model pulse may be written as

Furthermore while the above example used a THz TDS spectrum as an example any type of THz spectrum may be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example tunable continuous wave CW sources e.g. those sources based on microwave systems scaled up in frequency may be used to obtain a THz spectrum. In accordance with one or more embodiments a THz spectrum may be obtained using a CW source by measuring the THz power transmitted or absorbed through by the sample using a THz power detector. Furthermore phase information may be obtained from the power absorption spectrum using Kramers Kronig relations. For example one form of Kramers Kronig relation relates the real part of the refractive index to the absorption coefficient 

In accordance with one or more embodiments the reference samples may be pressed into pellets using high density polyethylene an almost transparent material at terahertz frequencies in order to assure homogeneous samples with well known path lengths. Reference samples may include samples of known minerals and or clays such as quartz calcite illite cheto montmorillonite Wyoming bentonite smectite or the like. In accordance with one or more embodiments the thickness of the pellets may range from 1 mm to 4 mm depending on the absorption coefficient of the sample. In accordance with one or more embodiments pressing parameters may be 5 to 15 tons of force using a 10 to 20 mm vacuum die held at pressure for 10 to 40 minutes. For example the material added to the high density polyethylene may originate from core samples of rock formations containing unconventional oil or gas.

Further in accordance with one or more embodiments the unknown sample may be a core sample with a length of approximately 1 mm having polished ends to reduce scattering from rough surfaces. In other embodiments core samples or any other type of sample obtained in the field may be ground and pressed into pellets using high density polyethylene in order to assure homogenous samples with well known path lengths. In accordance with one or more embodiments the thickness of the pellet along the direction of propagation of the THz radiation ranges from 1 mm to 4 mm depending on the absorption coefficient of the sample. In accordance with one or more embodiments pressing parameters may be 5 to 15 tons of force using a 10 to 20 vacuum die held at pressure for 10 to 40 minutes.

The specific examples of the pellet fabrication method and the specific parameters for length pressure time disclosed above are merely for the sake of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Furthermore one of ordinary skill will appreciate that the samples prepared by the above described method may be used as reference samples if made with samples having known constituents or unknown samples used that may be later characterized using the method and system of determining rock properties using terahertz band dielectric measurements in accordance with one or more embodiments.

In process a THz spectrum of an unknown rock sample is obtained e.g. a THz TDS spectrum as described above. In accordance with one or more embodiments the rock sample may itself be a core sample obtained using a coring bit or downhole core sampling tool. In another example the rock sample is a drill cutting from a wellbore which is produced by a drilling process and brought to the surface by circulation of drilling mud. The THz spectrum may be obtained any number of ways without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the THz spectrum may be retrieved from a database of previously measured THz spectra that are stored in a computer readable memory. In addition the THz spectrum may be obtained directly from a terahertz time domain spectrometry system or any other type of THz spectrometer shortly after the measurement and or in real time as one or more THz measurements are made. In view of the above the present disclosure is not limited to any particular method for obtaining a THz spectrum.

In process the complex permittivity of the unknown sample is determined from the obtained THz spectrum. In accordance with one or more embodiments the complex permittivity of the unknown sample may be obtained in a number of different ways. For example the complex permittivity may be obtained using the THz spectrum and a reference spectrum taken using the THz spectrometry system without a sample in the system i.e. a sample of ambient air . In accordance with one or more embodiments the complex permittivity of the unknown sample is determined by first estimating the complex permittivity and then generating a model THz spectrum based on the estimated complex permittivity. Then the final estimate for the estimated complex permittivity is determined by choosing the permittivity that results in a model THz spectrum that most closely matches the measured THz spectrum. For example one such method is described above in reference to . Determining the closest match may involve any type of numerical optimization or minimization routine e.g. using a least squares technique that minimizes the difference squared between the measured THz spectrum and the model THz spectrum. In accordance with one or more embodiments for the case of the THz spectrum that is a THZ TDS spectrum such an error may be quantified by the error function

In accordance with one or more embodiments it may actually be the complex refractive index n i that is directly estimated when the model THz spectrum is determined where the absorption coefficient 2 c. Accordingly once n and are determined these parameters may be converted into a complex permittivity tilde over i using Eqs. 1 and 2 above for the index of refraction and absorption coefficient. Eqs. 1 and 2 are reproduced below for convenience.

Accordingly by measuring the THz spectrum of an unknown sample the complex permittivity tilde over of the unknown sample is determined.

In process an initial estimate of the volume fractions fof the constituents of the unknown sample is made. For example in the case of an unconventional core sample prior measurements such as FTIR may be used to determine the rock matrix material. In accordance with one or more embodiments the rock matrix material itself may be a mixture of various clays and or minerals and thus the estimate of the volume fractions may include estimates of the volume fraction of various rocks and minerals e.g. quartz calcite smectite illite cheto montmorillonite and or Wyoming bentonite. In addition initial estimates may be made as to the volume fraction of various fluids contained within the rock matrix e.g. volume fractions of water ethanolamine methyldiethanolamine pyridine ethanol isopropanol toluene xylene hexadecane heptane hexane and or various forms of crude oil may also be estimated in process .

In process a model complex permittivity is determined using the estimated volume fractions and a dielectric mixing law obtained from an effective medium theory such as the Maxwell Garnett equation 

In process the error between the frequency dependent model complex permittivity and the frequency dependent measured complex permittivity tilde over is determined. In accordance with one or more embodiments such an error may be quantified by an error function

In process the determined error between the model complex permittivity and the measured complex permittivity tilde over is compared against a predetermined threshold. If the error is greater than the threshold value the estimated sample properties used to generate the model e.g. the estimated volume fractions and or the number and type of constituents are updated. In accordance with one or more embodiments any type of numerical routine may be used to update model and compute the error e.g. by way of a nonlinear least squares fitting routine or the like.

If it is determined in process that the error is below the predetermined threshold then the set or subset of most recent model parameters may output as the final estimate for the unknown sample. In one example the output may be stored in memory or sent to a display device for presentation to user. Accordingly the constituents that make up the unknown sample and or the volume fractions of these constituents are determined.

Embodiments may be implemented on virtually any type of computing system regardless of the platform being used. For example the computing system may be one or more mobile devices e.g. laptop computer smart phone personal digital assistant tablet computer or other mobile device desktop computers servers blades in a server chassis or any other type of computing device or devices that includes at least the minimum processing power memory and input and output device s to perform one or more embodiments. For example as shown in the computing system may include one or more computer processor s associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. one or more storage device s e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk CD drive or digital versatile disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities. The computer processor s may be an integrated circuit for processing instructions. For example the computer processor s may be one or more cores or micro cores of a processor. The computing system may also include one or more input device s such as a touchscreen keyboard mouse microphone touchpad electronic pen or any other type of input device. Further the computing system may include one or more output device s such as a screen e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display touchscreen cathode ray tube CRT monitor projector or other display device a printer external storage or any other output device. One or more of the output device s may be the same or different from the input device s . The computing system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet mobile network or any other type of network via a network interface connection not shown . The input and output device s may be locally or remotely e.g. via the network connected to the computer processor s memory and storage device s . Many different types of computing systems exist and the aforementioned input and output device s may take other forms.

Software instructions in the form of computer readable program code to perform embodiments may be stored in whole or in part temporarily or permanently on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a CD DVD storage device a diskette a tape flash memory physical memory or any other computer readable storage medium. Specifically the software instructions may correspond to computer readable program code that when executed by a processor s is configured to perform embodiments.

Further one or more elements of the aforementioned computing system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network . Further embodiments may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment the node corresponds to a distinct computing device. Further the node may correspond to a computer processor with associated physical memory. The node may correspond to a computer processor or micro core of a computer processor with shared memory and or resources.

The systems and methods disclosed herein generally relate to a method for the characterization of the dielectric response of unknown samples e.g. unknown unconventional core samples. It will be appreciated that the same systems and methods may be used for performing subsurface analysis in fields such as oilfield mining water retrieval or in any field where sample characterization is desired. Furthermore in accordance with one or more embodiments the system may be deployed as a stand alone analytical instrument e.g. as a lab based analytical instrument or as ruggedized unit for field work or as part of a downhole logging tool for in situ formation characterization e.g. as part of a wireline tool a logging while drilling LWD tool or a measurement while drilling MWD tool. For example in an oilfield application the system and methods disclosed herein may take the form of or be implemented within a downhole tool for determining the composition of a core sample. In other embodiments the system and methods may be deployed uphole as an analytical instrument for analysis on any type of unknown sample. The systems and methods disclosed herein are not limited to the above mentioned applications and these applications are included herein merely as a subset of examples. Furthermore portions of the systems and methods may be implemented as software hardware firmware or combinations thereof.

Although the preceding description has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather it extends to functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims.

