---

title: System and method for providing dynamic supply positioning for on-demand services
abstract: A method for providing on-demand service information is provided. One or more processors determine, for a given geographic region, position information for each of a plurality of requesters for an on-demand service and position information for each of a plurality of service providers that can provide the on-demand service. A plurality of sub-regions is identified for the given geographic region. Based, at least in part, on the position information of the requesters and the service providers, one or more sub-regions are determined as being under-supplied by the plurality of service providers as compared to one or more other sub-regions. Information identifying the under-supplied sub-regions are provided to one or more service provider devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066206&OS=09066206&RS=09066206
owner: Uber Technologies, Inc.
number: 09066206
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 667 536 filed Jul. 3 2012 the aforementioned application being incorporated by reference in its entirety.

There are many real world services that a user can access through a mobile computing device. In some examples a user can request transportation services or delivery services by operating a mobile computing device. The amount of time the user must wait to be serviced can depend on numerous factors.

Examples described herein provide for a system to provide real time on demand service information which identifies areas that are under served or over served by service providers. Using this information service providers can maneuver to different positions or areas in a given region in order to provide more efficient service and increase business.

According to some examples position information for each of a plurality of requesters and for each of a plurality of service providers are determined for a given geographic region. The requesters and services providers can be parties for an on demand service such as a transportation service or a delivery service. A plurality of sub regions is identified for the given geographic region. Based at least in part on the position information of the requesters and the service providers one or more sub regions can be determined to be under supplied by the service providers as compared to one or more other sub regions. Information identifying the under supplied sub region s can be provided to one or more computing devices associated with the requesters and or the service providers.

In one example one or more sub regions can be determined to be under supplied by determining for each of the plurality of sub regions an amount of requesters and an amount of service providers in that region. A sub region can be under supplied if the ratio of the amount of requesters to the amount of service providers in that region is greater than a threshold ratio.

The information that identifies under supplied sub regions and or over supplied sub regions can be provided as visualizations that are to be displayed on one or more computing devices of the requesters and or service providers. In some examples the visualizations can be provided in conjunction with a map of the given geographic region that identifies the sub regions. The visualizations can distinguish sub regions that are under supplied from other sub regions in the given geographic area using different colors e.g. a color scheme or spectrum and or other visual graphics.

In some examples one or more sub regions can be determined to be under supplied by the service providers as compared to one or more other sub regions by forecasting or making a prediction for a future instance in time e.g. a time ahead of the current time that a sub region will be under supplied at the future instance in time. Forecasting that a sub region will be under supplied can be based at least in part on historical data that is comparable to the future instance in time. In this manner a service provider can for example recognize which sub regions will be under supplied in the future instance in time e.g. ten minutes from the current time and move to a particular location to increase business.

As described herein a user a requester or a customer are invariably used to refer to individuals that are requesting or ordering a service. Also as described herein a provider a service provider a supplier or a vendor are invariably used to refer to individuals or entities that can provide the service. As an example a user can request a service such as a transportation or delivery service e.g. food delivery messenger service food truck service or product shipping or an entertainment service e.g. mariachi band string quartet using the system and a service provider such as a driver food provider band etc. can communicate with the system and or the user to arrange for the service. In addition as described herein requesting devices and provider devices refer to computing devices that can correspond to desktop computers cellular or smartphones laptop computers tablet devices television IP Television etc. that can provide network connectivity and processing resources for enabling a user to communicate with a system over a network. A provider device can also correspond to taxi meters or other metering devices.

One or more examples described herein provide that methods techniques and actions performed by a computing device are performed programmatically or as a computer implemented method. Programmatically as used herein means through the use of code or computer executable instructions. These instructions can be stored in one or more memory resources of the computing device. A programmatically performed step may or may not be automatic.

One or more examples described herein can be implemented using programmatic modules engines or components. A programmatic module engine or component can include a program a sub routine a portion of a program or a software component or a hardware component capable of performing one or more stated tasks or functions. As used herein a module or component can exist on a hardware component independently of other modules or components. Alternatively a module or component can be a shared element or process of other modules programs or machines.

Some examples described herein can generally require the use of computing devices including processing and memory resources. For example one or more examples described herein may be implemented in whole or in part on computing devices such as servers desktop computers cellular or smartphones laptop computers printers digital picture frames network equipments e.g. routers and tablet devices. Memory processing and network resources may all be used in connection with the establishment use or performance of any example described herein including with the performance of any method or with the implementation of any system .

Furthermore one or more examples described herein may be implemented through the use of instructions that are executable by one or more processors. These instructions may be carried on a computer readable medium. Machines shown or described with figures below provide examples of processing resources and computer readable mediums on which instructions for implementing examples described herein can be carried and or executed. In particular the numerous machines shown with examples described herein include processor s and various forms of memory for holding data and instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums include permanent memory storage devices such as hard drives on personal computers or servers. Other examples of computer storage mediums include portable storage units such as CD or DVD units flash memory such as carried on smartphones multifunctional devices or tablets and magnetic memory. Computers terminals network enabled devices e.g. mobile devices such as cell phones are all examples of machines and devices that utilize processors memory and instructions stored on computer readable mediums. Additionally examples may be implemented in the form of computer programs or a computer usable carrier medium capable of carrying such a program.

According to implementations system includes a map data generate a device interface requester positioning and provider positioning . System can also include or have access to one or more data stores that store data pertaining to requester computing devices and provider computing device and geographic data for a plurality of different geographic regions. In one example the components of system can combine to provide on demand service information to requesters that request an on demand service and or service providers that provide the on demand service.

System can operate in connection with a service system which can enable an on demand service to be arranged between one or more customers e.g. users who operate one or more requesting devices and one or more service providers e.g. individuals or entities who operate one or more provider devices . Depending on implementation one or more components of system can be implemented on network side resources such as on one or more servers. System can also be implemented through other computer systems in alternative architectures e.g. peer to peer networks etc. .

As an addition or an alternative some or all of the components of system can be implemented on client devices such as through applications that operate on the requesting devices and or provider devices . For example a client application can execute to perform one or more of the processes described by the various components of system . System can communicate over a network via a network interface e.g. wirelessly or using a wireline to communicate with the one or more requesting devices and the one or more provider devices .

System can communicate over one or more networks with requesting devices and provider devices using a device interface . In one example the device interface can include a requester interface and a provider interface that each enables and manages communications between system and the requesting devices and the provider devices respectively.

In some examples the requesting devices can individually operate an application that can interface with the requester interface to communicate with system . Similarly service providers can individually operate their respective provider devices to use an application e.g. a different application than the application used by a customer or the same application that can interface with the provider interface . According to some examples the applications can include or use an application programming interface API such as an externally facing API to communicate data with the device interface . The externally facing API can provide access to system via secure access channels over the network through any number of methods such as web based forms programmatic access via restful APIs Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP remote procedure call RPC scripting access etc. while also providing secure access methods including key based access to ensure system remains secure and only authorized users service providers and or third parties can gain access to system .

Using the respective interfaces system can receive requester data from a plurality of requesting devices and provider data from a plurality of provider devices . The requester data and the provider data can provide current information about the respective devices and or their respective users. For example for each requesting device the requester data can include identification information of the requester or request device e.g. user name ID email address etc. a selected pickup location for a transport service or the current position information of the requesting device e.g. such as global positioning system GPS data whether a request has been made for an on demand service service preference e.g. type of vehicle preferred for transport and or the current state of the requesting device e.g. whether the requester is currently being serviced . Similarly for each provider device the provider data can include identification information of the service provider or the provider device the current position information of the provider device e.g. GPS data the type of vehicle the service provider drives or the service that the service provider provides the availability status the service provider is available for service is off duty or is currently servicing other users and or the current state of the provider device .

Depending on implementation the requester data and the provider data can be received at different times. For example data can be received when a user or service provider launches or starts a service application. This can indicate or represent that a user operating the application on a requesting device is attempting to make or is potentially interested in making a request for an on demand service. In other examples data can be received when the user or the service provider performs certain actions using the service application e.g. the user requests a service or a service provider notifies that he or she is available for providing service . The respective interfaces can also receive data periodically at different instances in time or based on a set schedule once the user or service provider launches or starts the service application. By periodically receiving data for example real time position information for the requesters and the service providers can be provided to system e.g. which can provide updated position information if a requester or provider moves from one area to another .

Each of the requester positioning and the provider positioning can receive the requester data and the provider data respectively from the device interface . The requester positioning can use geographic data stored in the data store and the received requester data to determine for a given geographic region the number of requesters in that geographic region and the current position information for a plurality of requesters for an on demand service in that given geographic region. A geographic region can correspond to any particular designated region e.g. an area covering a certain radius a city a metropolitan area a county a state a country etc. For example the given geographic region can be a city such as San Francisco Calif. and the geographic region can be defined by a plurality of sub regions such as different districts of San Francisco. The requester positioning can determine the current position information for the requesters that are within San Francisco Calif. based on the requester data . In addition the requester positioning can determine which sub regions of a given geographic region the requesters are currently located in e.g. associate the position of a requester with a sub region .

For example for each requesting device the requester positioning can use geographic data to determine which geographic region the requesting device is located in. The geographic data can include map data for different geographic regions e.g. regions in which the on demand service is offered as well as information about sub regions for some of the different geographic regions. In some implementations a geographic region can be divided into multiple sub regions having any shape geometry or size. The sub regions can be created or identified i arbitrarily ii by an administrator of system and or iii by using predetermined information about certain geographic regions e.g. some cities have districts that are well known to the public or are specifically named and identified by municipalities .

Once the requesting device and the respective requester is categorized or grouped within a particular geographic region e.g. requester is determined to be in San Francisco Calif. the requester positioning can determine which sub region of the geographic region the requesting device is located in e.g. Mission District in San Francisco Calif. using the geographic data . The requester positioning can provide position information of the requesters and their current respective geographic regions and sub regions to the map data generate .

Similarly the provider positioning can use the provider data to determine for a given geographic region the number of available service providers in that geographic region and the current position information for each of a plurality of service providers that can provide the on demand service in the given geographic region. In some examples the provider positioning can use the provider data to identify only those service providers that are currently on duty or available for servicing one or more requesters. Like the requester positioning the provider positioning can also use geographic data to determine the position information of the service providers and their current respective geographic regions and sub regions if any to the map data generate .

In some implementations the requester positioning can also forecast or predict for a given geographic region and its sub regions the number of requesters and the position information of the requesters at a future instance in time e.g. ten minutes ahead of the current time or at a future window of time. The future instance in time or window of time can be configured by an administrator or user of system . The request positioning can make the prediction based on i the current position information of the requesters determined from requester data ii historical data stored in the data store and or iii other external or third party information such as current weather conditions calendar information e.g. seasons holidays event information within a given geographic region e.g. concerts sporting events etc. The historical data can include previously received position information of requesters in the given geographic region at different dates and or times. The requester positioning can use historical data at a specific date and or time that are comparable to the future instance in time when making the prediction.

For example the current time can be 5 30 pm but the requester positioning can forecast the number of requesters and the position information of the requesters in San Francisco the given geographic region for 6 pm on a Friday evening. The requester positioning can make the prediction for 6 pm on a Friday evening based on i the current position information of requesters in San Francisco determined from requester data ii historical data of requesters and their positions in San Francisco the past eight Fridays at 6 pm and iii current weather conditions or forecasted weather conditions e.g. it is currently raining so more people may want to stay in and not use transportation services . The forecasted position information can be provided to the map data generate .

Similarly in one example the provider positioning can also forecast or predict for a given geographic region and its sub regions the number of available service providers and the position information of the service providers at a future instance in time e.g. ten minutes ahead of the current time . Like the requester positioning the provider positioning can make the prediction based on i the current position information of the service providers determined from provider data ii historical data about providers at a comparable time stored in the data store and or iii other external or third party information. The forecasted number of parties to the service and their position information in a geographic region can be useful in determining whether a particular sub region of the geographic region will be under supplied or over supplied at a later time. The requester positioning and the provider positioning can also store the respective data e.g. time and position information of devices to the data store as historical data for future use as well as any determined or forecasted information.

The map data generate can use the requester position information and their associated sub regions and the provider position information and their associated sub regions to determine which sub regions of a geographic region are under supplied by service providers or over supplied . For example for a given geographic region such as San Francisco Calif. the map data generate can use the requester positioning information and geographic data to determine the current number of requesters in each defined sub region of San Francisco Calif. The map data generate can also use the provider position information and geographic data to determine the current number of available service providers in each sub region of San Francisco. For each sub region the map data generate can compare the number of requesters to available service providers in that sub region to determine a ratio of requesters to available service providers e.g. three to two two to one etc. .

In alternative examples each of the requester positioning and the provider positioning can provide position information of the requesters and position information of the providers such as described above to the map data generate but without determining the sub regions the requesters and service providers are positioned in. In such examples the requester positioning and the provider positioning provides the number of requesters and available service providers and their respective positions to the map data generate but do not provide their associated sub regions. Instead the map data generate can use the received position information and the geographic data which identifies sub regions for a given geographic region to determine for each sub region in the given geographic region the number of requesters and available service providers in that sub region.

Once the number of requesters and available service providers are determined for individual sub regions in a given geographic region the map data generate can identify one or more sub regions as being under supplied or over supplied as compared to one or more other sub regions. In one example if the determined ratio of requesters to available service providers for a sub region is greater than or equal to a threshold ratio of requesters to available service providers e.g. one to one then the sub region is determined to be under supplied by service providers. On the other hand if the determined ratio for a sub region is less than the threshold ratio then the sub region is determined to be over supplied. The sub regions that are under supplied can be mapped to a first color green that is distinguishable from a second color red which can be mapped to sub regions that are over supplied.

In other variations for a given geographic region the map data generate can rank each of the sub regions in order based on the determined ratio of requesters to available service providers. In another example the map data generate can categorize or group the sub regions by the determined ratios so that a sub region will belong to one of many groups with each group having a range of ratios. The ranks and or the categories can be color coded or mapped to a spectrum of colors e.g. two or more colors that can represent which sub regions are under supplied as compared to one or more other sub regions. For example a mapping table can be used where a first ratio or first ratio range corresponds to the color green a second ratio or a second ratio range corresponds to the color yellow a third ratio or third ratio range corresponds to the color orange and a fourth ratio or fourth ratio range corresponds to the color red. Within the first ratio range for example different determined ratios for sub regions can also be mapped to different shades of green e.g. darker green for 3 1 compared to 3 2 which can be a lighter green .

The map data generate can provide sub region information for a given geographic region to the device interface . In one or more examples the sub region information can include for each sub region in a given geographic region i the determined ratio of requesters to available service providers or the actual numbers of requesters and available service providers ii geographic information identifying and defining the sub region e.g. a plurality of location or GPS points that identify the sub region determined from geographic data and or iii visualization information associated with the ratio e.g. colors or visual images .

The device interface can provide the sub region information for the plurality of sub regions of a given geographic region as service information to one or more requesting or provider devices . In some examples the device interface can provide service information of a particular geographic region to only those devices that are currently in the vicinity e.g. within a predetermined distance of the geographic region. For example a service provider in New York City N.Y. would not want on demand service information of San Francisco Calif. Information about the on demand service can be provided on the display of one or more provider devices for example as part of a visualization that overlays or is a part of a map interface. In this manner a service provider can use the visualized information such as a heat map or other graphic overlay to better position the vehicle e.g. move to an under supplied sub region in an area to increase business.

Similarly in other examples the map data generate can use the forecasted requester position information and or the forecasted provider position information to predict at a future instance in time which sub regions of a geographic region will be under supplied or over supplied by service providers. In one scenario it may be beneficial for service providers to visualize under supplied or over supplied sub regions based on forecasted requester position information but not current provider position information . In such cases the ratio used to determine whether a sub region is under supplied as compared to other sub regions can be based on the amount of predicted requesters at a future instance in time to the amount of currently available service providers. The visualization based on such a prediction can provide the service provider with additional time e.g. ten minutes to move or reposition the vehicle to a predicted under supplied sub region for example before the actual current number of requesters in the sub region changes.

Still further in one example the map data generate can determine sub region information for a plurality of sub regions of a given geographic region for specific types of vehicles. For a transport service or delivery service for example service providers can drive different types of vehicles e.g. town car taxi cab SUV electric vehicle van limousine shuttle etc. having different service capabilities e.g. different capacities trunk space amount etc. and different prices. The vehicle type and or capabilities can be provided to the provider positioning as part of the provider data . When the provider positioning determines the number of available service providers and their positions within a given geographic region the provider positioning can also determine for each of the available service providers in the geographic region the vehicle type of the available service providers. Similarly in some examples the requester positioning can determine specific vehicle preferences for the requesters in the given geographic region. The map data generate can provide as part of the sub region information i the vehicle types and or capabilities of the available service providers in the given geographic region and or ii vehicle preferences or vehicle specific requests by requesters. By providing vehicle specific information to the provider devices for example a service provider can select to specifically view which sub regions are over supplied or under supplied based on a type of vehicle.

For a given geographic region position information for a plurality of requesters requesting an on demand service e.g. transport or delivery services food trucks etc. and position information for a plurality of available service providers can be determined . Computing devices corresponding to requesters and service providers can communicate with system in order to provide their respective current position information e.g. GPS data to system . For example position information for requesters and position information for available service providers can be provided when a service application is launched or operated on the respective computing devices.

A plurality of sub regions can be identified for the given geographic region . In some variations the plurality of sub regions can be identified from geographic data stored in a data store of system . The geographic data can include map data for different geographic regions and information about sub regions for some or all of the different geographic regions. The geographic region can be divided into multiple sub regions having any shape geometry or size. The sub regions can be identified i arbitrarily ii by an administrator of system and or iii by using predetermined information about certain geographic regions e.g. some cities have districts that are well known to the public or are specifically named and identified by municipalities . For example many large cities and metropolitan areas have predefined neighborhoods boroughs street boundaries that create regions etc. Information of these neighborhoods and districts can be stored as geographic data in the data store. The information can also include position information e.g. three or more GPS points that represent points for the boundaries of the sub regions for a given geographic region. In some examples the sub regions of a given geographic region can be identified to be non overlapping sub regions.

Depending on implementation the plurality of sub regions can be identified by for example the map data generate of . For the given geographic region the map data generate can group or tally the number of requesters and available service providers in each of the plurality of sub regions based on the position information of the requesters and the available service providers. In other examples for the given geographic region the requester positioning and the provider positioning can determine the position of the respective requesters and service providers and identify which sub region each requester and service provider are located in.

One or more sub regions are determined to be under supplied or over supplied as compared to other sub regions based on the position information of the requesters and the available service providers within a given geographic region . In one example for each sub region system can compare the number of requesters to available service providers in that sub region to determine a ratio of requesters to available service providers e.g. five to two three to two two to one etc. . The ratio of requesters to available service providers can be compared to a threshold ratio of requesters to available service providers e.g. one to one or three to two . If the determined ratio is greater than or equal to the threshold ratio the sub region can be determined to be under supplied whereas if the determined ratio is less than the threshold ratio the sub region can be determined to be over supplied. In some cases no sub regions may be determined to be under supplied or over supplied .

There map data generate can also use multiple threshold ratios two or more thresholds to determine which sub regions are under supplied and which sub regions are over supplied. For example a first threshold ratio can identify whether a sub region is under supplied while a second threshold ratio can identify whether a sub region is over supplied. In other examples each of the sub regions can be ranked in order based on the determined ratio of requesters to available service providers and mapped to a spectrum of colors.

In another example the sub regions can be categorized or grouped by the determined ratios so that a sub region will belong to one of many groups with each group having a range of ratios. The groups can be color coded or mapped to a spectrum of colors that can represent which sub regions are under supplied as compared to one or more other sub regions. Depending on implementation one or more sub regions can be determined to be under supplied or over supplied by using a combination of a threshold a ranking and or a categorization.

Information identifying the under supplied one or more sub regions can be provided to a plurality of service providers devices and or requesters devices . In one example information identifying the under supplied and or over supplied sub regions can enable a visualization to be provided as an overlay or as part of a map of the given geographic region. The information can also enable the sub regions to be displayed using colors or graphics e.g. based on the color spectrum or mapping table . The visualization provides an easily understandable feature to identify to service providers e.g. that can have varying levels of language fluency for example which sub regions of a geographic region are being under supplied or under served. The service provider can then reposition the vehicle to a better location for increased business.

In this manner system can increase the overall efficiency for an on demand service system such as a transport or delivery service system. System can improve pick up times and reduce wait times for requesters. Underserved service areas can also be reduced as a result of service providers repositioning the vehicles in such areas.

The user interface of illustrates a visualization of on demand service information in one example. The visualization can overlay or be part of a map of a given geographic region . The visualization can also identify a plurality of sub regions for the given geographic region with each sub region having an associated color . Each of the sub regions can be associated with a color e.g. based on a color spectrum and or mapping table that indicates to a service provider which areas or sub regions are best for increasing business and revenue. A service provider such as a driver that provides a transport service can understand that red for example means that the sub region is over supplied e.g. there are too many available service providers in the area while green means that the sub region is under supplied e.g. there are not enough available service providers in the area . Depending on the current location of the service provider the service provider can choose to move to a sub region that is identified as being under supplied.

For example four colors are provided with the visualization in the user interface . The spectrum of colors can be in the order of green yellow orange and red where green represents the most under supplied sub region and red represents the least under supplied sub region or the most over supplied sub region . In addition different shadings of colors can be available to more precisely distinguish one green sub region from another green sub region. As discussed with respect to the visualization can provide the different sub regions and associated colors based on a ratio of current requesters to currently available service providers or for a predicted ratio of future requesters to currently available service providers.

The user interface can include an identifier of the service provider and a selection feature to enable the service provider to go off duty. When the service provider goes off duty the service provider is no longer available to provider service in a given geographic area and system can dynamically update the position information for the service provider. For example if the service provider was in sub region A and went off duty the number of available service provider in sub region A would decrease by one. The service provider can also interact with the user interface to zoom in or zoom out to see additional details or more detailed and or smaller sub regions. Other selection features not shown can also enable the service provider to view visualization information based on a vehicle type.

The user interface of illustrates a visualization of on demand service information in another example. The user interface is similar to the user interface of but instead of sub regions being identified using a color scheme graphics can be provided for individual sub regions. In addition each sub region can be identified with a point e.g. near the center of the sub region and a name for the sub region.

The visualization of the user interface enables a service provider to see a comparison of the number of requesters R and the number of available service providers P in a sub region. An indicator and an indicator can be provided for each graphic . The service provider can see from viewing the visualization that the Presidio has a high number of requesters and a low number of providers e.g. the Presidio is under supplied by service providers while North SF has a high number of requesters and a high number of providers e.g. North SF is not under supplied . In other examples the graphic can include a ratio or actual numbers that represent the numbers of requesters and service providers in the sub region e.g. . In one example the ratio or actual numbers can replace the indicators .

In one implementation computer system includes processing resources main memory ROM storage device and communication interface . Computer system includes at least one processor for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system may also include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided for storing information and instructions.

The communication interface can enable the computer system to communicate with one or more networks e.g. cellular network through use of the network link wireless or wireline . Using the network link the computer system can communicate with one or more computing devices and or one or more servers. In some variations the computer system can be configured to receive requester data and or provider data from one or more computing devices e.g. belonging to users and service providers respectively via the network link. The requester data and or provider data can be processed by the processor and can be stored in for example the storage device . The processor can process the received data and other data such as historical data in order to determine one or more sub regions of a given geographic region that is under supplied by service providers. The sub region information can be transmitted to the requester device s and or the provider device s over the network .

Computer system can also include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT an LCD monitor or a television set for example for displaying graphics and information to a user. An input mechanism such as a keyboard that includes alphanumeric keys and other keys can be coupled to computer system for communicating information and command selections to processor . Other non limiting illustrative examples of input mechanisms include a mouse a trackball touch sensitive screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Examples described herein are related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one example those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement examples described herein. Thus the examples described are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The processor is configured with software and or other logic to perform one or more processes steps and other functions described with implementations such as described by and elsewhere in the application. Processor is configured with instructions and data stored in the memory resources to operate a service application for example as described in . For example instructions for operating the service application in order to display various user interfaces such as described in can be stored in the memory resources of the computing device . A requester or a service provider can operate the service application so that location data can be determined by the GPS component . The location data can provide the current location of the computing device so that it can be used by system as described in . The communication sub systems can receive information of one or more sub regions of a given geographic region that is under supplied by service providers over a network from system . The information can be provided to the processor for displaying the information as part of the user interface .

The processor can provide content to the display by executing instructions and or applications that are stored in the memory resources . In some examples user interfaces can be provided by the processor such as a user interface for the service application e.g. including a heat map user interface . While is illustrated for a mobile computing device one or more examples may be implemented on other types of devices including full functional computers such as laptops and desktops e.g. PC .

It is contemplated for examples described herein to extend to individual elements and concepts described herein independently of other concepts ideas or system as well as for examples to include combinations of elements recited anywhere in this application. Although examples are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the examples are not limited to those precise descriptions and illustrations. As such many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners. Accordingly it is contemplated that a particular feature described either individually or as part of an example can be combined with other individually described features or parts of other examples even if the other features and examples make no mentioned of the particular feature.

