---

title: Radiopharmaceutical delivery and tube management system
abstract: A device for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical and delivery of a pharmaceutical agent are described. Various other components for delivery systems including tubing management systems, primer caps, diffusion chambers, radiation shields and syringe shields, needle handles, and other devices and methods are also described. Specifically, needle handles having a needle handle body attachable to a portion of a needle, and one or more wings or fins which are grasped by a user are described. The needle handle may be separated from the needle after insertion of the needle into a subject, and/or may provide access to a portion of tubing extending from the needle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09393441&OS=09393441&RS=09393441
owner: BAYER HEALTHCARE LLC
number: 09393441
owner_city: Whippany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional No. 61 656 743 entitled Radiopharmaceutical Delivery Device filed Jun. 7 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Radiopharmaceuticals are provided by manufacturers in numerous concentrations in sterilized containers such as glass bottles or plastic packages ranging incrementally in size from 20 ml to 200 ml. These containers are generally designed for a single use in which once a container is opened for a patient then it is used for that patient only. The radiopharmaceutical is generally aspirated from such containers via a syringe pump used to inject the radiopharmaceutical and any radiopharmaceutical remaining in the container is discarded to prevent infection with potentially contaminated radiopharmaceutical. The staff is faced with the task of choosing an appropriately sized container to assure an adequate injection while minimizing discarded radiopharmaceutical. Time consuming procedures are required to reload the syringe if more radiopharmaceutical is required than originally calculated and expensive waste results if only a portion of a filled syringe is injected. In addition staff are often exposed to hazardous radiation as a result of these procedures.

Various embodiments are directed to an injector including an injector body a motor having at least one syringe actuating component configured to associate with a syringe attached to the injector body a syringe mount attached to the injector body and a syringe shield configured to reversibly attach to the syringe mount. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a first housing section having at least a forward portion including a syringe bore a shoulder and a tubing access bore positioned at the forward end of the syringe bore a plunger access bore at the aft end of the syringe bore and an aft portion comprising a plunger access enlargement and a second housing section having at least a forward portion including a syringe bore a shoulder and a tubing access bore positioned at the forward end of the syringe bore a plunger access bore at the aft end of the syringe bore and an aft portion comprising a plunger access enlargement. In such embodiments reversible coupling of the first housing and the second housing may provide a forward syringe bore configured to encase a syringe and an aft plunger access enlargement configured to allow access to a plunger associated with the syringe.

In some embodiments the injector body may be composed of steel aluminum or another metal or metal alloy high tensile strength polymer compositions and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the housing may be configured to cover the injector body. In certain embodiments the syringe mount may include buttons pins slides grooves and the like configured to associate with the syringe shield and facilitate proper placement of the syringe shield within the injector body. In certain embodiments the injector may include a control system operably connected to the motor and capable of causing the motor to expel contents from the syringe and in particular embodiments the injector may include a tubing management system.

Some embodiments are directed to a tubing management system including a tubing channel a shield plate covering the tubing channel at least one pulley positioned to move forward and aft within the tubing channel a spindle extending through the pulley a handle disposed on an end of the spindle extending through the shield plate a slide contacting the spindle opposite the handle and a track having an upper channel and a lower channel configured to accept the slide. In some embodiments the pulley may include a circumferential groove and in particular embodiments the circumferential groove may include a large side wall and a short sidewall opposite the large side wall and wherein the short sidewall faces the shield plate. In certain embodiments the shield plate may include a pulley channel extending to an edge of the shield plate. In some embodiments the tubing management system may include a secondary tubing channel extending from an edge of the shield plate to the pulley channel. In particular embodiments the tubing management system may include a retractor slot extending from the secondary tubing channel. In some embodiments the tubing management system may include a pulley groove in cooperation with the pulley channel. In some embodiments the tubing management system may include an upper shielded spacer and a lower shielded spacer operably connected to the shield plate. In various embodiments the tubing management system may be configured and arranged to attach to an injector body.

Other embodiments are directed to a syringe shield including a first housing section having at least a forward portion including a syringe bore a shoulder and a tubing access bore positioned at the forward end of the syringe bore a plunger access bore at the aft end of the syringe bore and an aft portion comprising a plunger access enlargement and a second housing section having at least a forward portion including a syringe bore a shoulder and a tubing access bore positioned at the forward end of the syringe bore a plunger access bore at the aft end of the syringe bore and an aft portion comprising a plunger access enlargement. In some embodiments reversible coupling of the first housing and the second housing may provide a forward syringe bore configured to encase a syringe and an aft plunger access enlargement configured to allow access to a plunger associated with the syringe. In various embodiments the first housing section and the second housing section may be hingedly attached and in certain embodiments a radioactive emissions blocking material may be associated with at least the forward portion of the first housing section and forward portion of the second housing section. In some embodiments a syringe may be completely or nearly completely encased by the radioactive emissions blocking material when the first housing section and the second housing section are coupled. In some embodiments an aft groove may be configured to accommodate a flanged portion of a syringe associated with the plunger access bore. in certain embodiments the syringe bore may be sized to accommodate a syringe having a diameter sufficient to hold 1 ml 3 ml 5 ml 10 ml 15 ml 20 ml 30 ml and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a carrier handle capable of reversibly coupling to the syringe shield and the carrier handle may include a carrier body having a grip portion a tubing bore cover configured and arranged to fit within the tubing bore and a plunger cover configured and arranged to associate with the plunger access enlargement. In some embodiments the carrier handle may be integrally formed on the syringe shield. In particular embodiments the first housing section and the second housing may include a groove or flange associated with the tubing bore and the carrier handle may include a tubing bore cover configured and arranged to fit within groove or flange. In certain embodiments the tubing bore cover the plunger cover and combinations thereof may include a material capable of blocking radioactive emissions. In some embodiments the tubing bore cover is hingedly attached to the carrier body and in particular embodiments a lever or button may be configured to allow the tubing bore cover to be released from the tubing bore or corresponding flanges and grooves on the syringe shield when the lever or button is depressed.

Further embodiments include a primer cap including a tube connector including a nut designed and configured to be grasped by a user a first fitting operably connected to the nut a bore extending from the first fitting though the nut wherein the bore is designed to operably connect to a tube and to allow fluid flow from the tube through the nut a cap including a handle designed to be grasped by the user and a sealing lip disposed on a surface of the cap opposite the handle wherein the sealing lip is designed to create an airtight seal on the bore and facilitate a reversible connection between the cap and the bore. In some embodiments a needle tubing section may be operably connected to the tube connector and fluidly connected to the bore. In particular embodiments a needle may be operably connected to the needle tubing section opposite the tube connector and in some embodiments the tube connector may be physically attached to the needle tubing section by means such as for example soldering or gluing. In some embodiments a second fitting may extend from the first fitting opposite the first fitting. In certain embodiments the primer cap may further include a plug insert extending from a surface of the cap opposite the handle and designed and configured to be inserted into the bore.

Certain embodiments are directed to a primer cap including a tube connector including a nut designed and configured to be grasped by a user a first fitting operably connected to the nut a bore extending from the first fitting though the nut wherein the bore is designed to operably connect to a tube and to allow fluid flow from the tube through the nut and a cap including handle designed to be grasped by the user and a plug insert extending from a surface of the cap opposite the handle and designed an configured to be inserted into the bore. In some embodiments a needle tubing section may be operably connected to the tube connector and fluidly connected to the bore. In particular embodiments a needle may be operably connected to the needle tubing section opposite the tube connector and in some embodiments the tube connector may be physically attached to the needle tubing section by means such as for example soldering or gluing. In some embodiments a second fitting may extend from the first fitting opposite the first fitting. In certain embodiments the primer cap may further include a plug insert extending from a surface of the cap opposite the handle and designed and configured to be inserted into the bore.

Additional embodiments include methods for creating a wet wet connection between tubing sections including the steps of introducing a needle tubing section into a blood vessel of a patient wherein the needle tubing section includes a tube connector including a nut designed and configured to be grasped by a user a first fitting operably connected to the nut a bore extending from the first fitting though the nut wherein the bore is designed to operably connect to a tube and to allow fluid flow from the tube through the nut and a cap including a handle designed to be grasped by the user and a sealing lip disposed on a surface of the cap opposite the handle wherein the sealing lip is designed to create an airtight seal on the bore and facilitate a reversible connection between the cap and the bore or a plug insert extending from a surface of the cap opposite the handle and designed an configured to be inserted into the bore and removing the cap from the tubing connector. In various embodiments an airtight seal may be created by the cap during the step of introducing. In some embodiments a vacuum may be created in the bore drawing blood and other fluids from the subject into the needle tubing section. In particular embodiments the methods may further include the step of connecting a tubing section to the tube connector.

Yet other embodiments are directed to a diffusion chamber including a tubing section a first connector at a proximal end of the tubing section a second connector at a distal end of the tubing section wherein the second connector is configured to connect to a needle. In some embodiments the tubing section may be clear or tinted. In certain embodiments the needle may include a tubing section between the second connector and the needle. In particular embodiments the tubing section is from about 1 inch to about 5 inches long.

Further embodiments are directed to a method for reducing contamination of a tubing section including introducing a needle tubing section into a blood vessel of a patient wherein the needle tubing section includes a diffusion chamber designed and configured to allow a user to monitor diffusion of blood into the tubing section a first connector at a proximal end of the tubing section a second connector at a distal end of the tubing section wherein the second connector is configured to connect to a needle and removing the tubing section when blood from the patient reaches the first connector.

Still further embodiments are directed to a needle handle including a needle handle body configured to connect to a portion of a needle and one or more wings sized and shaped to be grasped by a user. In some embodiments the needle handle may include a cleft including a breakable connection between portions of the needle handle body including each of the pair of separated wings. In particular embodiments the one or more wings may include a pair of separated wings extending from a surface of the needle handle body and in certain embodiments a breakable cleft may be disposed opposite the separation. In some embodiments the needle handle may include a needle tubing section and the needle tubing section may include a connector opposite the needle handle.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every possible implementation of the present invention. The detailed description which follows particularly exemplifies these embodiments.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

In some embodiments the delivery injector body may be configured as illustrated in . Generally the delivery injector body may include a housing which may include one or more hinged access panels which allow the operator to access portions of the delivery injector body covered by the housing or allow for improved access to exposed portions of the delivery injector body . In some embodiments the hinged access panels may be shielded to reduce or eliminate emissions from radiopharmaceuticals positioned behind the access panel. For example the syringe access panel may include a thin layer of tungsten or another material capable of deflecting radioactive particles. In use the syringe access panel may be angled to allow improved access to the syringe shield as shown in . When the syringe has been placed within the syringe holder the syringe access panel may be rotated upwards to block emission from the syringe and delivery tubing . Similarly a tubing access panel may include shielding to block emissions from delivery tubing . In other embodiments delivery tubing within the delivery injector body may be independently shielded by an integral tubing shield and the tubing access panel may not include a material to block radioactive emissions. In further embodiments the housing may include hinged or slidable access panels for accessing motors or pumps for moving radiopharmaceutical through the delivery tubing and or accessing ports for connecting for example a power cord a controller a computer a memory device a display a hand switch or footswitch or various combinations thereof.

The delivery injector body may further include one or more motors or pumps that are configured to associate with a syringe and effectuate delivery of the radiopharmaceutical. The motor or pump may be attached to the housing or a frame provided under the housing which maintains the position of the motor or pump during use or the radiopharmaceutical delivery system . The housing may be removably attached to a frame and can be removed to allow access to components such as motors pumps syringe holders tubing management systems without the need for an additional access panel. In some embodiments a pump such as a peristaltic or in line pump may be provided that attaches to tubing associated with a radiopharmaceutical storage container or syringe. Such a pump may be configured and positioned to effectuate discharge of the radiopharmaceutical through the tubing. In other embodiments the delivery injector body may include a motor having syringe actuation component such as a piston. The actuation component may include a connector that can be configured to connect to the syringe or plunger portion of the syringe allowing the motor to advance or retract the plunger in the syringe. In certain embodiments as illustrated in the actuation component may include a piston that contacts the plunger portion of the syringe and is capable of advancing the plunger but not retracting the plunger. In some embodiments the actuation component may include one or more sensors positioned to contact the plunger before or during actuation. Thus in such embodiments the motor may effectuate discharge of the radiopharmaceutical only.

The delivery injector body may further include a syringe holder or mount . Embodiments are not limited to any particular syringe holder or mount. For example in some embodiments the syringe holder may be a device configured to accept and hold a syringe or vial holding the radiopharmaceutical by removably attaching to the syringe or vial body or flanges associated with the syringe or vial. In other embodiments the syringe holder or mount may be configured to accept and hold a secondary device housing a syringe or vial including a radiopharmaceutical.

As illustrated in a syringe shield may include one or more flanges or grooves configured to associate with a syringe mount . shows a syringe shield operably connected to a shield holder positioned to be inserted into a syringe mount . The syringe mount of such embodiments may be in any configuration and may include for example buttons pins slides grooves and the like configured to associate with the syringe shield to facilitate proper placement of the syringe shield within the delivery injector body . In certain embodiments the syringe mount may include a forward groove or ridge into which a corresponding ridge or groove on the syringe shield fits. The syringe mount may further include rear binding that associates with a groove or ridge on the syringe shield . In some embodiments the binding may include a housing attached to the delivery injector body that includes one or more springs positioned to urge a clamp forward against the groove or ridge of the syringe shield to lock the syringe shield in place when it has been pushed into position.

In various embodiments the syringe mount may be associated with and attached to a framework underlying the housing rather than the housing itself. An example of such a framework is provided in with individual illustrations I II III and IV showing various perspectives of the framework . The framework will generally be composed of a rigid material that provides mechanical support for the syringe mount shown with a syringe shield mounted to the syringe mount and the actuation component mount . Without wishing to be bound by theory the framework may substantially improve the accuracy and reproducibility of injections by reducing or eliminating flexion that can occur when the syringe mount and or actuation component are attached to a housing composed of a more flexible material. In some embodiments the framework may be composed of steel aluminum or another metal or metal alloy or high tensile strength polymer compositions and may be designed to fit within the housing and provide attachment sites for mechanical components of the device in addition to the syringe mount and actuation component.

In still other embodiments the housing may include any number of grooves or opening that facilitate access to or movement of components of the delivery injector body . For example in certain embodiments the delivery injector body may include a tubing management system and the housing may include an opening and groove that allows a portion of the tubing management system such as the handle illustrated in to protrude from within the delivery injector body to facilitate manual movement of portions to the tubing management system.

In particular embodiments the pulley of the pulley system may be shaped to guide the extension tube while within the tubing channel . For example as illustrated in the pulley may be shaped to provide a groove that is offset with a larger side wall being positioned on the side of the pulley closest to the body or framework . A shorter side wall may be provided opposite the larger side wall facing the shield plate . In this arrangement tubing may be inserted into the tubing management system through the short side wall where the tubing contacts the groove. During operation the tubing will remain within the groove and the larger side wall will prevent the tubing from becoming displaced from the groove and getting caught between the pulley and the body or framework where it can bind the system and prevent movement of the pulley and spindle . At the same time the shorter side wall allows access of the tube to the pulley groove for loading and unloading the extension tube .

A spindle may be provide within the pulley and may include a handle extending away from the delivery injector body or framework and through the shield plate . The pulley may be positioned on the spindle to allow the pulley to rotate freely while the user moves the pulley within the channel using the handle . Opposite the handle the spindle may contact a slide . The slide may be in any configuration that controls lateral and up and down movement of the spindle while the pulley is moved forward and aft. For example in some embodiments a track having upper and lower channels may be configured to accept a spindle extension and allow the spindle extension to slide within the upper and lower channels allowing for forward and backward movement of the spindle and pulley while eliminating or reducing upward downward and lateral movement.

In some embodiments the pulley and spindle system pulley spindle spindle extension and associated slide and upper and lower channel may further include a set screw positioned within the spindle such that friction between the track and the spindle can be increased by increasing the tension on the set screw i.e. turning the set screw into the track. The set screw may allow the user to control the movement of the pulley spindle system such that the pulley moves easily within the tube channel but sufficient friction is created between the moving parts such that the pulley does not move through the channel without force from the user. Therefore bumping the delivery injector body will not cause unintended discharge of the tube in the channel. Friction can also be controlled by providing bearing material between the spindle and the pulley and spindle extension . Such bearing materials are well known in the art and can be selected to allow sufficient rotational friction to avoid unwanted release of the extension tube while allowing easy movement of the pulley within the tube channel .

Operation of the tube management system is illustrated in . In position I. the spindle and pulley may be positioned at the forward end of the slide . The extension tube may be inserted through a retractor slot and entering through the top from the tube management system around the pulley and exiting at the bottom. The spindle and pulley may be slid from the front of the system to the back as illustrated in position II. The tubing may be maintained within a groove associated with the pulley while the pulley rotates about the spindle allowing the tubing extension to easily travel through the tubing management system .

The shield plate may include a number of external features as illustrated in . For example in some embodiments the shield plate may include a side channel extending from the front to the back of the shield plate . The side channel may be configured to allow the handle attached to the spindle and pulley to pass through the channel and slide from the front to the back of the shield plate and vice versa without hindrance. The shield plate may further include a pulley channel at the forward end of the shield plate . The pulley channel may be positioned such that a groove associated with the pulley and configured to accept the extension tube can be accessed only when the pulley is at the forward most position allowed by the side channel . In some embodiments the pulley channel may have a circular or semi circular shape such that the pulley channel and the groove are continuous with one another when the pulley is at its forward position. The pulley channel may further run to the outer edge of the shield plate and proved a channel for the extension tubing to exit the tube channel .

In some embodiments a secondary channel may be provided to improve access of the tubing to the pulley channel . In such embodiments the secondary tubing channel may be provided at an angle from the pulley channel and may extend from an outer edge of the shield plate to the pulley channel . In further embodiments a retractor slot not shown may be provided within the delivery injector body that is configured to accept the extension tubing and encase the extension tubing from the syringe connector to the secondary tubing channel providing shielding between the syringe connector and the secondary tubing channel .

In operation the user may connect an extension tube to the syringe connector insert the extension tube into the shielded retractor slot and through the secondary tubing channel . The extension tubing may then be introduced into the pulley groove through the pulley channel and out of the pulley groove through a the extension of the pulley channel extending to the edge of the shield plate . In some embodiments a groove associated with the secondary channel and the pulley channel may be provided to ease insertion of the extension tube and direct the user s finger during insertion of the extension tube into the pulley groove . After the extension tubing has been seated within the pulley groove the user may move the pulley backward through the tubing channel causing the extension tubing to be carried with the pulley into the tubing channel and behind the shield plate . The extension tubing is thereby retracted. To release the extension tubing from the tubing management system the user may tug on the tubing extension pulling the pulley forward and allowing the extension tubing to be discharged. To retract the pulley may be moved backward into the tubing channel using the handle .

The extension tubing may be prepared from any material known an used in the art and in certain embodiments the extension tubing may be for example medical grade polyvinyl chloride PVC polyurethane polyethylene polypropylene or silicone. The extension tubing may be clear or opaque depending on the material to be delivered. For example in embodiments in which an optical tracer is administered using the delivery device the tubing extension may be tinted or colored to block light that can degrade the optical tracer. Thus the tubing extensions may include one or more dyes colorants and or pigments and in certain embodiments the tubing may be black.

As provided in the radiopharmaceutical delivery system of some embodiments may include a display . Such a display may be a color display or a black and white display. In some embodiments the display may be configured to allow a user to program or otherwise operate the system and in various embodiments the display may display real time data with regard to the operation of the system. For example in certain embodiments the display may have touch screen capabilities or be otherwise configured to allow a user to interact with the system and in particular a computer used to control the system by manipulating or touching the display . In other embodiments the system may include a keyboard mouse or other device configured to allow the user to program or otherwise operate the system. In still other embodiments the display may be included as part of a laptop smartphone or tablet computer that is electronically associated to the system by a hard wired or wireless network. The display may be fixed to the delivery injector body and in other embodiments the display may be positioned away from the system and attached to the system by a hard wired or wireless network. Such displays may be configured to be tilted or swiveled to allow the display to be positioned by an operator.

In some embodiments the display can be configured to present or provide data and information to an operator in an intelligible form or format i.e. visually display this information and data in electronic form. In certain embodiments the radiopharmaceutical delivery system may include a printer which is configured to physically display this information and data in print form. The printer of various embodiments may be of any type and includes off the shelf ink jet and laser printers. In particular embodiments the printer may be configured to print adhesive backed labels. In still other embodiments the radiopharmaceutical delivery system may include a speaker not shown to audibly present this information and data in audible form. For example a speaker may be configured to produce an audible beep when an injection is complete or when the radiopharmaceutical has been used up or is nearly used up. In various embodiments such devices may be in communication with the computer or other control system through output interfaces.

Various embodiments include a syringe shield . shows various embodiments of such a syringe shield in more detail. In some embodiments as illustrated in a syringe may be inserted into a syringe shield having a bored portion sized and shaped to accept the syringe . The syringe shield may further include a shoulder configured to properly position the syringe within the forward portion of the syringe shield and a tubing bore configured to allow access to a portion of the syringe designed to attach to tubing not shown . The syringe shield of such embodiments may attach to the delivery injector body using the syringe mount system described above or in other embodiments they may attach to the delivery injector body through a saddle mount which may be shaped to fit within a groove provided on the syringe shield . In some embodiments the saddle mount may include pressure fittings grooves pins buttons and the like that facilitate reversible attachment of the syringe shield to the saddle mount.

The shield provided in further includes a syringe shield into which the syringe shield is placed. In some embodiments the syringe shield may include a lower portion that is configured to reversibly attach to a syringe mount . The syringe shield may also include an upper portion that can include one or more removable or hinged segments . In some embodiments the upper portion may be attached to the lower portion by a single hinge that allows access to the syringe shield and the syringe . In other embodiments the upper portion may be attached to the lower portion by pressure fittings and the upper portion may be removed from the lower portion to allow access to the syringe shield and syringe . In still other embodiments the upper housing of the syringe shield may include a hinged syringe access door that allows access to part of the internal segments of the syringe shield . For example as illustrated in a hinged access door may allow access to the syringe such that the user can more easily maneuver the syringe while inserting it into the syringe shield . The forward portion of the upper housing may be positioned to cover the syringe shield and may be fixedly attached to the lower housing . In this arrangement only the hinged part of the upper housing is movable.

In still further embodiments the syringe shield may be incorporated in the syringe shield housing. As illustrated in in some embodiments the syringe shield may be designed to include a radioactive emissions blocking material in the upper housing and lower housing . As illustrated the upper housing in such embodiments or any part thereof can be hingedly attached to the lower housing to allow access to the syringe. The radioactive emissions blocking material may be incorporated into the syringe housing such that the syringe is completely or nearly completely encased by the radioactive emissions blocking material when the housing is in the closed position. In such embodiments a tubing access bore and plunger access point may be provided to allow access of the syringe to tubing and motor pump portions of the radiopharmaceutical delivery system . In some embodiments the syringe may be seated in a syringe bore that is configured and designed to accommodate a syringe. Such a syringe bore may include a shoulder positioned to contact a front portion of the syringe the syringe bore may further include an aft groove configured to accommodate a flanged portion of the syringe associated with the plunger access bore . The plunger may fit within enlarged portion of the syringe shield that allows user access to the syringe and plunger . The enlarged portion of the housing may further accommodate the piston or other part of the motor or pump that is configured to associate with the plunger allowing the plunger to advance and retract.

In some embodiments as illustrated in the syringe shield may include a forward extension designed to encase a connector portion of the syringe and a portion of the tubing extending from the connector of the syringe to a delivery device. The forward extension may be connected to the syringe shield and form part of the syringe shield . In some embodiments the forward extension may be separately attached to the syringe shield and may include a separate hinged portion that allows access to the connector and tubing section when the syringe is encased in the syringe shield . In certain embodiments the forward extension may include a lateral exit port through which the tubing section may exit the syringe shield . The forward portion of the forward extension may be enclosed with a radiation blocking material to reduce shine from the connector and potential exposure of the user to the radiation.

The syringe bore may be configured to accommodate any syringe or type of syringe known in art and in some embodiments the syringe bore may provide a universal fitting for syringes of various types and sizes. For example in particular embodiments the syringe bore may be configured to accommodate syringes having similar flange sizes and body lengths but different body diameters. Therefore a syringe having a diameter sufficient to allow the syringe to hold 10 ml 15 ml 20 ml or 30 ml and a syringe having a diameter sufficient to allow the syringe to hold 1 ml 3 ml or 5 ml can securely held within the syringe bore .

Further embodiments include a carrier handle designed to attach to the syringe shield to ease transport of the radiopharmaceutical and reduce exposure to the person carrying the syringe shield . For example as illustrated in in some embodiments a carrier handle may include a tubing bore cover configured and arranged to fit within the tubing bore and or a groove flange or other attachment means associated with the tubing bore . The carrier handle may further include a plunger cover configured and arranged to associate with the enlarged portion of the syringe housing by for example contacting the housing within the enlarged portion of the housing . In some embodiments the tubing bore cover and or the plunger cover may include a material capable of blocking radioactive emissions that is positioned to block emission that could otherwise escape through the tubing bore and the plunger access point . In particular embodiments carrier handle may include a carrier body that includes a grip portion and the plunger cover . The tubing bore cover may be hingedly attached to the carrier body and may include a lever or button that is configured to allow the tubing bore cover to be released from the tubing bore or corresponding flanges and grooves on the syringe shield when the lever or button is depressed.

In operation the user may grasp the syringe shield by positioning the plunger cover within the plunger access point or within the enlarged portion of the syringe shield while the lever or button is depressed. The tubing bore cover may be positioned over the tubing bore and the lever or button can be released such that the tubing bore cover is properly positioned within the tubing bore and corresponding grooves . The carrier handle is thereby sufficiently connected to the syringe shield to allow the user to easily pick up and transport the syringe shield without actually touching the housing itself. To remove the carrier handle the user can position the syringe shield within the delivery injector body to allow the syringe shield to connect to the syringe mount . The lever or button may be depressed releasing the tubing access bore cover from the tubing access bore and corresponding groove and the user may rotate the carrier handle such that the plunger cover is removed from the plunger access point and enlarged portion of the syringe shield . Finally the carrier handle can be withdrawn from the syringe shield while the housing remains mounted on the delivery injector body . Exposure to radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical is minimized during transport and only occurs during loading of the syringe into the syringe shield and installation of the tubing sections after the carrier handle has been removed.

The carrier handle and syringe shield may be made from any material. For example the carrier handle and syringe shield may be made from a metal a polymeric material or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the carrier handle may be prepared from a rigid polymeric material such as a polycarbonate that may reduce the weight of the combined syringe shield and the carrier handle while the syringe shield may be prepared from a metal or other material that is capable of blocking radioactive emissions such as tungsten or lead. In still other embodiments the syringe shield may be made from a metal such as tungsten or lead that is covered in a polymeric material such as a polycarbonate or light weight metal such as aluminum. In still other embodiments the syringe shield may include a pigment or dye that eliminates exposure of optical tracers to light. For example in embodiments in which an optical tracer is delivered using the delivery device the syringe shield may be prepared exclusively from an opaque or colored material to absorb particular wavelengths of light to reduce decay of the optical tracer. In such embodiments the syringe shield may not include a metal or other material to block radioactive emissions and the radioactive emissions blocking material portion of the devices presented in may be omitted and replaced with for example a polymeric material.

Certain embodiments are directed to methods for calibrating a piston syringe drive system such as the radiopharmaceutical delivery system described above. In some embodiments a motor driven piston may be used to contact a syringe and in particular embodiments the piston may include one or more switches on the face of the piston configured to contact the plunger. At least one switch may have travel that is beyond the activation point providing a large amount of overtravel to allow for high plunger search speeds. Such a piston driven motor may be operated by methods including the steps such as loading a syringe with a composition. An empty syringe may be loaded into the device with the plunger at any position. The piston may be advanced at a high speed until a switch on the face of the piston is activated against the plunger. The switch will travel beyond its activation point after the piston has contacted the plunger. The piston may then be retracted at a very slow speed until the switch is deactivated. These steps allow for determination of the switch activation deactivation position. The control system may then record and store the deactivation position. These steps may be repeated two or more times and the average deactivation position can be calculated from these data points and stored in memory. In still other embodiments sensors such as laser or other optical magnetic sensors or ultrasonic sensors may be used to detect the plunger and position the piston to allow for proper dispersion of the radiopharmaceutical or optical agent.

In operation a syringe can be loaded with any amount of a composition and the syringe may be installed into the injector. The syringe may be loaded with any amount of the composition and the plunger may be in any position allowing the user to fill the syringe to any desired volume. The piston may then be advanced at high speed until it contacts the plunger and actuates the switch. The piston will travel beyond the switch activation point due to inertial effects and signal or computer lag time. Using the average activation deactivation point calculated during the calibration routine and the distance from the end of the switch trigger to the activation point the position of the end of the plunger can be determined. The volume of the composition in the syringe can then be determined based on the position of the plunger and the diameter type of syringe introduced into the system which can be inputted by the user or detected based on marking on the syringe that can be read by the system.

The radiopharmaceutical delivery system of various embodiments as exemplified in may further include a delivery tubing set for transferring the radiopharmaceutical from the syringe to a delivery port configured to allow injection of the radiopharmaceutical into a subject. The delivery tubing set may include a tubing extension of any length extending from a syringe connector and the delivery port and in some embodiments the tubing may include intervening tubing sections that act as extensions or perform specialized functions as discussed below. The tubing extension may generally be of sufficient length to extend from the syringe to the subject to whom the radiopharmaceutical is to be delivered and in some embodiments the tubing extension may be of sufficient length to be inserted into a tubing management system as described above see . Thus the tubing extension may have length of from about 5 in to about 50 in and in particular embodiments the tubing extension may have a length of from about 10 in to about 50 in about 15 in to about 45 in about 20 in to about 40 in or about 20 in to about 35 in. In certain embodiments the tubing extension may have a length of 20 in 36 in or in. Tubing extensions of such lengths may be configured to be accepted by a tubing management system while providing sufficient length to allow user maneuverability during the radiopharmaceutical delivery procedure.

The tubing extensions of various embodiments may include one or more connectors on each end and the connector may be any connector known in the art. For example the syringe connector may be mounted on an end of the tubing extension configured to be attached to the syringe and may be for example a luer or swabable luer type connector. The end of the tubing extension opposite the syringe connector may be configured to attach to a needle or other delivery device and may be a luer or swabable luer type connector. In other embodiments the end of the tubing extension opposite the syringe connector may be configured as a tubing connector as illustrated in such that the tubing connector may attach to intervening tubing sections . In various embodiments the tubing connector may be a luer connector.

In other embodiments a compressible sealing connector may be used. As illustrated in such sealing connectors may have a generally cylindrical in shape and dimensioned to be concentric with the conduit or tubing of the connector. A distal end of sealing element can for example be flush with the distal end of conduit or tubing or extend beyond the distal end of conduit or tubing with a hole aligned with the ID of the tubing. In either case the base of distal end of sealing element can be shaped for example tapered to generally match the inside surface of the second cooperating connector with which it comes into contact upon connection of first cooperating connector and second cooperating connector . The tapered section provides a sealing surface between surface of second cooperating connector and sealing element . Connection of first cooperating connector and second cooperating connector causes compression of sealing element to effect a seal. In other embodiments sealing can occur at an O ring between the first cooperating connector and second cooperating connector . Because an O ring effects the seal between cooperating connectors no taper is necessary. Therefore in certain embodiments the inner surface of the sealing connector can be cylindrical and not tapered. In particular embodiments sealing connectors including sealing connectors having a tapered or O ring sealing mechanism may be attached to one another using a threaded attachment means and in certain embodiments a threaded quarter turn attachment method may be used.

As compared to standard luer type connectors in the devices and systems of the present invention the distal end or exit of conduit or tubing is positioned more closely to a flow path opening of second cooperating connector thereby reducing potential lost volume. Alternatively extending a sealing element beyond the end of conduit or tubing and matching the dimension of a passage within sealing element to passage can virtually eliminate such potential lost volume. The interconnection between second cooperating connector and the downstream fluid path element attached thereto is also designed to reduce or eliminate sharp flow transitions which can for example damage cells and or other fluid components being administered . Sharp transitions can for example occur between connection of any two fluid path elements or internally within a particular fluid path element. Such connectors are more fully described in U.S. Publication No. 2010 0063481 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In embodiments having an O ring that effects the seal between cooperating connectors lost volume is nearly completely eliminated. Without wishing to be bound by theory eliminating lost volume may provide a further improvement of the accuracy of the device by reducing the potential for the injected pharmaceutical to be trapped in the lost volume and not dispensed to the subject.

In some embodiments the tubing extension may be configured to connect to a needle or other deliver device directly and such needles or other delivery devices may be known and commercially available. In other embodiments such as those illustrated in the tubing extension may be configured to connect to a needle or other delivery device and may include a needle having a needle handle configured to be grasped by the user during insertion of the needle into the subject. In some embodiments the needle may include a needle cover configured to cover the needle prior to insertion into the subject.

The needle handle may be of any design or configuration. For example in some embodiments as illustrated in the needle handle may have a winged configuration such that a pair of removable wings can be brought into contact with one another during insertion of the needle such that the user can simultaneously grasp both wings . The wings may then be spread following insertion of the needle to provide a larger surface area for contact with the subject and to improve stability when the needle is attached to the subject using for example medical tape. The wings may be freely movable and mounted to the needle using flexible plastic and in other embodiments the wings may be attached to one another such that a connector must be broken to allow the wings to be spread. In other embodiments the wings may be separated breaking the needle handle from the needle and tubing section

In some embodiments the needle handle may be designed to be easily removed by the user. As illustrated in the needle handle may include a needle handle body and a pair of offset wings and . The offset wings may be positioned such that the wings can be separately grasped by the user and pulled in opposite directions. The needle handle may further include a separation on the surface corresponding to the wings and and a cleft on the opposite surface of the needle handle body . The separation and the cleft may allow for the user to crack separate the wings and through the separation allowing the needle handle to break along the cleft into two pieces. The pieces may be easily removed from the needle and tubing section . In addition the cleft and the separation allow the needle handle to tighten around the tubing when the wings are squeezed together preventing movement as the needle is inserted into the subject.

In other embodiments as illustrated in needle handle may be a single wing or fin associated with the needle . In use the user may grasp the wing or fin during insertion of the needle and then rotate the needle and wing or fin such that it contacts the subject and can be secured to the subject using for example medical tape. In still further embodiments either the wings or the single wing or fin may be configured to be removed after insertion of the needle into the subject. In such embodiments the wings or single wing or fin may be attached to the needle with a breakable connector and the user may simply break these handles from the tubing or needle.

As illustrated in in some embodiments the needle handle may have a fin shape. As in the above embodiments in such embodiments the tubing extension may include a needle operably connected to a tubing section. The needle handle may have a fin shape that is sized and shaped to be grasped by the user during insertion of the needle into the subject. In some embodiments a portion of the needle handle opposite the fin may be removed. For example as illustrated in the needle handle may include a c shaped bore sized to accommodate the tubing section such that a portion of the tubing section is exposed through the needle handle. In some embodiments the exposed portion of the tubing section may be opposite the fin as depicted and in other embodiments the fin may be offset from the exposed portion of the c shaped bore to ease handling. In use the c shaped bore may allow the tubing section and by extension the needle to contact the subject at a lower angle relative to the subject s skin allowing the needle to by introduced into blood vessels near the surface of the skin. In some embodiments a portion of the tubing section may be encased in the needle handle by a ventral enclosure and the ventral enclosure may be positioned at the distal end of the needle handle

In some embodiments as illustrated in the needle may be directly attached to a connector configured to allow the needle to be attached to another tubing section. In other embodiments the needle may be attached to a needle tubing section which is then attached to a connector . The needle tubing section may be of any length and generally may be of a length sufficient to allow the user to easily manipulate the needle and needle handles without interference from the connector . Thus the needle tubing section may have a length of from about 0.5 in to about 5 in or in other embodiments about 1 in about 2 in about 3 in about 4 in about 5 in or any length between these exemplary lengths.

The connector associated with the needle tubing section may be any type of connector known in the art such as for example a luer type connector. In certain embodiments the connectors may be associated with a Y connector as illustrated in . The Y connector may be attached directly to the needle and needle tubing section or in other embodiments the Y connector may be attached to the needle and needle tubing section through an additional connector not shown . On the end opposite the needle or needle tubing section the Y connector may terminate in two or more connectors and each connector can be any type or connector known in the art. In some embodiments the two or more connectors may be different types of connectors. For example in particular embodiments one connector may be adapted to accommodate a needle allowing for manual delivery or a composition to the subject during the radiopharmaceutical delivery procedure and the other connector may be a tubing connector.

In some embodiments the needle connector may include a needle tube connector cap configured to cover the connector prior to insertion of the needle into the subject.

In some embodiments the needle connector or may include a primer cap . shows a cross sectional view of a primer cap . The primer cap may generally include a tubing connector designed to connect to a tubing section and a cap designed to removably connect to the tubing connector. The tubing connector may include a first fitting for connecting to the needle tubing section and . The first fitting may be a pressure fitting a connector such as a luer connector or the compressible sealing connector described above and may be physically attached to the needle tube by physical means such as soldering or glue. The primer cap may further include a nut designed and configured to be grasped by the user when the primer cap is connected to or disconnected from the needle connector . In some embodiments the primer cap may further include an extension such as a female luer fitting opposite the first fitting for connecting to another connector. The primer cap may generally include a bore extending from the first fitting through the nut allowing for free flow of fluid between the first fitting and through the nut .

The cap may include a handle designed to be grasped by the user. The cap may generally be configured to extend away from the first fitting . In some embodiments the cap may include a plug that is configured to create an airtight seal within the sealing bore of the extension via a sealing lip which may be pliable to allow compression. In other embodiments the plug may be configured to create the airtight seal on the outside of the extension . In yet other embodiments the cap may include a plug insert in addition to or in place of the sealing lip shown in . In such embodiments the plug insert may be designed and configured to be inserted into the sealing bore of the primer cap and substantially fill and create an airtight seal within the bore. In some embodiments the sealing lip may be a sealing device such as an O ring or the like to effectuate a seal.

In some embodiments the cap may include a means for producing a spring washer effect using for example an o ring disposed within a groove on a surface of the cap surrounding the sealing lip . In other embodiments as illustrated in the cap may include one or more cantilever tabs protruding into a groove on a surface of the cap surrounding the sealing lip . In use the cantilever tabs may be compressed when the cap is attached to the tubing connector to provide a spring washer effect.

In operation primer cap may be operably connected to needle needle tubing section or a terminus of the Y connector . The needle may be inserted into subject while the airtight seal created by the plug in the sealing bore of extension reduces or eliminates the flow of blood or other fluid into the needle needle tubing section or Y connector . The user may then grasp handle and remove the cap creating a vacuum within the bore of connector drawing blood or other fluids from the subject into the needle and needle tubing section . A wet wet connection can then be made with tubing coming from the delivery system and the delivery protocol can be carried out.

In certain embodiments the sealing bore of extension may be configured to allow a particular amount of blood or other fluid into the device. For example in some embodiments the bore may have substantially the same volume as the volume of the needle needle tubing section and Y connector where applicable. Thus when the plug is removed a volume of blood equal to the volume of the needle needle tubing section and Y connector is drawn into the device. In other embodiments the volume of the bore may be greater than or less than the volume of the needle needle tubing section and Y connector .

With reference to the tubing extension may include any number of additional tubing sections having any length and additional tubing sections may be incorporated into the tube set for any reason. For example in some embodiments additional tubing sections may be added to elongate the tube set making it suitable for the administration of radiopharmaceuticals at a greater distance e.g. opposite a wall or radiation shield housing a radiopharmaceutical delivery device or to provide improved maneuverability for subjects of various sizes e.g. a longer tube sets may be necessary for delivery to larger animals such as dogs horses cows pigs monkeys or humans compared to a mouse which may be placed on a table near the delivery device .

In certain embodiments an additional tubing section may be provided as a diffusion chamber and may provide a means of monitoring diffusion and avoiding mixing of the radiopharmaceutical with blood or other fluids from the subject. In such embodiments the diffusion chamber may include a length of tubing of about 1 in to about 5 in in length that may be clear or tinted to allow the user to visually observe movement of blood toward the tubing extension . The diffusion chamber prevents blood or body fluid from reaching connector preventing contamination of extension . In operation when blood or other bodily fluid reaches the connector between the diffusion chamber and the tubing extension or nears the connector the diffusion chamber may be replaced to eliminate potential contamination of the radiopharmaceutical in the tubing extension . At the same time the needle and needle tubing section can be changed for each subject to avoid contamination at the needle.

Further embodiments are directed to a tubing connector having an internal check valve which can operate to reduce contamination. For example shows a check valve disposed within a tubing connector . In this example the closing member is disposed at the end of a male component of the connector and this closing member fits within a check valve bore in the female component of the tubing connector . In other embodiments the check valve including both a closing member and a check valve bore may be completely disposed within either the male or female component. The check valve in such embodiments may be configured to allow fluid to flow toward the subject but stop fluid from flowing back into the delivery tubing. Thus in fluid would flow from the male component through the female component and to the subject. The diffusion into the delivery tubing is reduced or eliminated.

Additional embodiments include small bore tubing having thick outer walls that allow for ease of handling and or assembly. For example the tubing of various embodiments may having an inner diameter for from about 0.25 mm to about 1 mm or any diameter encompassed by this range including but not limited to 0.25 mm 0.5 mm 0.8 mm and 1 mm. The outer diameter of such tubing may be up to about 1 inch. For example in some embodiments the outer diameter of the tubing may be from about 0.05 in to about 1 inch about 0.1 in to about 0.75 in about 0.25 inch to about 0.5 in or any diameter encompassed by these ranges and in certain embodiments the outer diameter of the tubing may be 0.25 in 0.5 in or 0.75 in. The tubing of such embodiments may be composed of any material known in the art that is used to make tubing and in particular embodiments the tubing may be composed of a flexible material. Thus the tubing of various embodiments may be composed of a polymeric material such as for example polyvinyl chlorine PVC polyethylene teraphthlalate PET fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP polytetraflourineethylene PTFE polyether etherketone PEEK polypropylene polyethylene thermoplastic elastomers and the like.

The radiopharmaceutical delivery system of some embodiments may further include additional shielding devices that are designed to envelop cover or otherwise contain radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical while the radiopharmaceutical is in the extension tube. For example the tube management system may allow the extension to be retracted into the delivery injector body when radiopharmaceutical delivery is not taking place. Other embodiments of the system include a shielded mat that can be placed on a work surface to prevent radioactive emissions from contacting a user through the work surface. In still other embodiments one or more tube covers may be placed over unshielded tubing to block emission from the radiopharmaceutical when the tube is one the work surface. In some embodiments a single tube cover may be designed to cover a large portion of the extension tubing. For example a single tube cover may be from about 2 in to about 5 in shorter than the length of the extension tube minus the length of extension contained in the tubing management system thereby reducing the overall emissions capable of contacting the user while providing sufficient external tubing to allow the user to maneuver the extension tube during insertion of the needle and delivery of the radiopharmaceutical. Such a single tube cover may be straight or curved and in some embodiments the single tube cover may be bendable. The shielded mat and tube covers may be made entirely or partially from tungsten lead or other radioactive shielding materials.

In other embodiments the tubing cover may include a number of tube covers that are designed to be interlocking allowing for a large array of different shapes and lengths using the same tubing covers. For example as illustrated in a plurality of short single tube covers may be combined by interlocking a first end of the tube cover and a second end of a neighboring tube cover. In three single tube covers are shown in interlocking configuration with the first end having a narrow character contacted by a second end having a bulbous character . The tube covers of such embodiments may be open on the lower portion such that outer walls of the tube cover contact the work surface and the first end and the second end may be open to allow the extension tube to travel through the interlocked tube covers unimpeded. In some embodiments the first end may include an upper dimple that is configured to contact a knob protruding from the lower surface of the second end thereby allowing the user to move the interlocked tube covers while the individual tube covers remain in contact with one another. The tube covers may further include additional features that facilitate handling such as for example handles tube retainers latches and the like.

In further embodiments the tube cover or tube covers may be configured to encase the extension tube. For example as illustrated in in some embodiments a tube cover may include an internal channel configured to accept the extension tube and an insertion gap configured to allow the extension tube to be passed into the channel by the user during use. As above tube covers having an internal channel may include interlocking mechanisms that allow individual tube covers to be interlocked and connected to one another. Such tubing covers may further include pivot joints that allow bending of the tube while maintaining cover over the tubing and other features such as handles latches and the like to ease in handling.

In some embodiments the system may include one or more additional components including but are not limited to pinch valves air detectors and mounts or retainers for holding the connector ends of the delivery tube section and the like and combinations thereof. The fluid delivery system may include one or more pumping mechanisms configured to facilitate the movement of liquids through the system. Any suitable type of pumping mechanism can be used including but not limited to piston driven syringe pumps gear pumps rotary pumps in line pumps and peristaltic pumps. The system of various embodiments may include any number of cords for powering the system using standard AC outlets and in some embodiments the system may include a battery configured to power the system controller in the event that the system is disconnected from an AC power source. In some embodiments the system battery may be charged while the system is connected to an AC power source.

In various embodiments the delivery system may include a control system schematically represented in in communication with the various components of the delivery system including for example the display pumps motors buttons air detectors printers valves stopcocks and the like for controlling the operation of the system .

The control system may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. The computer includes one or more processing units typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions. As used herein the computer may be operably configured to execute appropriate software to perform and implement the processing steps of the methods and systems disclosed herein. The system may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed herein. Still further the computer may be in the form of a personal computer coupled to the delivery system a processor formed integrally with the delivery system a computer provided remotely from the delivery system or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the presently invented computer implemented method and system for example computer tablets and smart phones.

The control system may further include a system bus to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular embodiments the system bus may facilitate data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through interfaces.

In still other embodiments the computer may further include system memory with computer storage media such as volatile and non volatile memory ROM and or RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and can be stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit such as an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code.

The computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium. The computer may further include removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with for example a removable memory card . Other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. These removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of the information and data in the system memory .

In some embodiments the computer may include one or more discrete computer readable media components or other media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media and the like. In certain embodiments the computer readable media be stored in computer he storage medium including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . In some embodiments the computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. In other embodiments the computer readable media may include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic signals radio frequency signals optical signals infrared signals biometric signals bar code signals etc. . Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In particular embodiments the system may be configured to allow a user to enter commands information and data into the computer using the touch screen of the GUI display via an operator input interface . In other embodiments an operator may enter commands information and data into the computer using other attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a remote control device a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a scanner a tablet computer and the like via the operator input interface . Any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source may be used including for example hard wiring or accessing using a wireless network device such as blue tooth a wireless internet connection or a cellular connection. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the operator input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a USB.

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote. This communications device is operable by and in communication with the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer of an external information system which typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communications devices such as for example a modem a network interface adapter telephone line cellular telephone connection wifi network and the like the computer may operate within and communicate through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet and the like and combinations thereof. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the system of embodiments described above may be configured to deliver a radiopharmaceutical drawn from an amount of radiopharmaceutical sufficient for delivery to multiple subjects. In some embodiments the user may input the radioactive emissions of the radiopharmaceutical contained in the volume of radiopharmaceutical in to the control system when the radiopharmaceutical is loaded into the system . The system may be configured to determine the volume of radiopharmaceutical and to deliver a dose of radiopharmaceutical having a desired activity level based on the measured amount of radioactive activity. The system may then administer the proper amount of radiopharmaceutical to deliver the appropriate dose of radiopharmaceutical as identified by the user to the subject. The system may further monitor the decay of the radiopharmaceutical or optical tracer over time either by intermittent measurements carried out by an on board sensor such as a Geiger counter or optical sensor or based on the calculated decay based on the rate of decay for the particular isotope used in the radiopharmaceutical or the fluorophore used in a particular optical tracer.

The fluid delivery system may further be configured for priming i.e. purging air from the tubing system and delivering a radiopharmaceutical to a subject while minimizing or eliminating exposing the individuals operating the system to the radiopharmaceutical and minimizing or eliminating contaminated waste. Moreover the delivery system may facilitate safe delivery of the pharmaceutical to multiple destinations for example dose delivery to a series of subjects .

The system may be further configured to provide feedback information to the operator. For example in some embodiments the system may provide the operator with information regarding the administration such as but not limited to the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the subject by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery. In some embodiments the system may reference subject data to determine the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered to the particular subject over time and provide a warning to the operator if absorbed levels become too high. In various embodiments the information may be provided to the operator in real time.

Following administration or the completion of an administration protocol the system may provide a summary of the procedure including any relevant data. For example in various embodiments the system may provide the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the subject by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi the amount of other pharmaceutical composition delivered to the subject mg ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery and the like and combinations thereof. The data provided either in real time during performance of the protocol or in summary of the procedure may be provided numerically or graphically and in certain embodiments the screens providing the data may provide both numeric and graphic data simultaneously.

The system may further provide subject identification and any critical data such as weight age disease being treated or tested for the procedure to be performed the location of the injection infusion site and the like and various combinations thereof. Such data may be inputted at the time of the procedure or may be inputted prior to the procedure. In certain embodiments the operator may input subject identification and the system may retrieve appropriate subject data from electronically archived records using a computer network or Internet connection. In still further embodiments the system may store subject information for more than one procedure.

The systems of various embodiments may be configured to deliver any radiopharmaceutical known in the art and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical composition. For example in some embodiments the system may be designed and configured to deliver Ca Ca C L methyl methionine C glycocholic acid C para amino benzoic acid PABA C urea C d xylose Cr red blood cells Cr Cr Cr ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Er colloid F fiuorodeoxyglucose FDG F fluoride F fluorocholine Ga dotatoc or dotatate H water In diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA In leukocytes In platelets In pentetreotide In octreotide I iodide I o iodohippurate I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG I FP CIT I fibrinogen I iodide iodide I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG Fe Fe or Fe Kr aqueous N ammonia O water P phosphate Rb chloride Sm ethylenediaminotetramethylenephosphoric acid EDTMP Se selenorcholesterol Se 23 Seleno 25 homo tauro cholate SeHCAT Na Na Na Na Sr chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc phosphonates and phosphate Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid V DMSA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid III DMSA Tc colloid Tc hepatic iminodiacetic acid HIDA Tc denatured red blood cells Tc red blood cells Tc mercaptoacetyltriglycine MAG3 Tc exametazime Tc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc sulesomab IMMU MN3 murine Fab SH antigranulocyte monoclonal antibody fragments Tc human immunoglobulin Tc tetrofosmin Tc ethyl cysteinate dimer ECD Tl Tl Xe in isotonic sodium chloride solution Y silicate and the like and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the system may be configured for delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for imaging myocardial or other cardiovascular conditions. In such embodiments the system may be configured to deliver F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG N ammonia O Water Rb Chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc denatured red blood cells Tc red blood cells Tc exametazime Tc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc tetrofosmin Tl Tl and the like and combinations thereof.

Optical tracers used in various embodiments may be derived from any source. For example in some embodiments the optical tracer may be a fluorochrome green fluorescent protein red fluorescent protein and luciferin or any other bioluminescent molecule isolated from for example ctenophores coelenterases mollusca fish ostracods insects bacteria crustacea annelids and earthworms. In particular embodiments the optical tracer may be isolated from fireflies Mnemiopsis Beroe ovata Aequorea Obelia Pelagia Renilla Pholas Aristostomias Pachystomias Poricthys Cypridina Aristostomias Pachystomias Malacosteus Gonadostomias Gaussia Watensia Halisturia Vampire squid Glyphus Mycotophids Vinciguerria Howella Florenciella Chaudiodus Melanocostus Sea Pens Chiroteuthis Eucleoteuthis Onychoteuthis Watasenia cuttlefish Sepiolina Oplophorus Acanthophyra Sergestes Gnathophausia Argyropelecus Yarella Diaphus Gonadostomias Ptilosarcus or Neoscopelus and in certain embodiments the optical tracer may be luciferin or coelentrazine.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to administer a single radiopharmaceutical composition and in other embodiments the system may be configured to deliver two or more different radiopharmaceuticals. In embodiments in which the system is configured to deliver multiple radiopharmaceuticals the system may allow the operator to switch configurations depending on the intended procedure. The amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used. Generally a technician or other qualified personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a particular subject using metrics regarding the subject known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of radiopharmaceutical can be delivered.

User control of the system can be carried out by any suitable means. For example in some embodiments a user may trigger delivery of the radiopharmaceutical using the GUI interface by pressing a button on the screen. In other embodiments an external button may be used to trigger delivery. The external button may be configured to be activated for example by hand or using a foot pedal. In some embodiments the system may include an interrupt button that is configured to allow an operator to pause or abort an injection procedure in the event of for example subject discomfort or an emergency while by passing the GUI display which also can be configured to allow the user to pause or abort an injection procedure. An interrupt button may be connected to LEDs and or a printed circuit board to provide visual and or auditory alarms when the interrupt button has been activated.

Various embodiments are directed to methods for using the system and devices encompassed by the system. In some embodiments before starting the injection procedure the operator may determine i the desired amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the subject based on the activity of the radiopharmaceutical and ii the estimated concentration of activity in the vial i.e. the activity per unit of volume MBq ml . These data may be provided to the system controller. In other embodiments data provided to the controller may further include the type of radiopharmaceutical provided in the system subject identification. The methods of various embodiments may include the step of inputting such information before beginning the procedure.

In certain embodiments methods may further include generating a list of procedures to be performed over a time period. While the information provided in such a list may vary in some embodiments the list may include subject ID numbers type of procedure amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the identified subject the time necessary of the procedure and or a projected start time for the procedure and the like. In particular embodiments the information required for such a list may be inputted into the system before initiation and in other embodiments information for the list may be provided before the initiation of the procedure for each individual subject. In still other embodiments information for the list may be inputted remotely and subject information may be provided to the system via an Internet or other network connection.

Initialization may include any number of steps necessary to prepare the system for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical. In some embodiments initialization may include the step of filling the system including all tubing and connectors with saline or another medical fluid to remove air from the fluid path i.e. flushing the system. In some embodiments the step of flushing the system may be carried out by manually filling the tube set with saline before connecting to a syringe including radiopharmaceutical. In other embodiments the tube set and various portions thereof may be prefilled with saline or another medical fluid before packaging.

After flushing such methods may include the step of introducing a radiopharmaceutical into the system. The volume of the radiopharmaceutical in the syringe may be inputted into the control system or in other embodiments the system may use an internal protocol to determine the volume of the radiopharmaceutical in the syringe using for example the switch method described above. In still other embodiments the user may input the average radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical sample introduced into the system. In some embodiments the user may determine the volume of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered and the motor or pump may deliver an appropriate volume of radiopharmaceutical when prompted by the user. In other embodiments the amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a subject based on the radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical and the control system may determine an appropriate volume of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered based on the emissions provided by the user or determined internally using for example an internal Geiger counter and the volume of radiopharmaceutical in the syringe. The motor or pump may deliver an appropriate amount of radiopharmaceutical when prompted by the user.

In various embodiments the method presented above may further include the step of delivering the radiopharmaceutical to the subject. Delivering the radiopharmaceutical may include the steps of inserting a needle or other delivery device into the subject at an appropriate location such a vein or artery. For mice the tail vein is commonly used. The user may then secure the needle to the subject using for example medical tape and the needle and needle tube may be primed to introduce blood into the needle and needle tube. A primed extension tube or primed diffusion chamber may then be connected to the needle and needle tube to provide a wet wet connection. The radiopharmaceutical can then be delivered to the subject by activating the motor or pump causing the plunger to be advanced delivering the appropriate volume of radiopharmaceutical to the subject.

In some embodiments another injection of the radiopharmaceutical may then be delivered to the same or a different subject. In such embodiments procedure may continue by repeating the steps provided above. Notably the initialization steps may be omitted during repeated delivery of radiopharmaceutical. In some embodiments the system may determine the relative emission of radioactivity of the radiopharmaceutical over time based on decay of the radioactive component of the radiopharmaceutical and adjust the volume of radiopharmaceutical administered to make up for decay. Thus each subject may be provided with the identical amount of radiopharmaceutical based on radioactive emission. In the event that no further injections are necessary the procedure may be terminated using a shutdown protocol which may include one or more steps of flushing the system with medical fluid.

The display of some embodiments may be a graphical user interface GUI allowing for easy and logical entry of information for injection operation. For example in particular embodiments the user may be prompted for information related to the fluid supply that will be loaded on to the injector via a screen similar to that shown in . When the Syringe button located at the upper left is pressed the screen presented in may appear which allows the user to enter specific information related to the drug that can be loaded on to the injector in a syringe. This information may include for example but is not limited to syringe size drug name fluid type lot number date and time and radioactivity level at assay time if the drug is a radiopharmaceutical .

After saving this information the user is then prompted to load the syringe on the injector as shown in . After pressing the Load Syringe button the piston in the injector advances forward to contact the plunger of the syringe. At this point the user may be prompted to select a multi subject disposable tubing set as shown in . Upon pressing the Disposables button located at the lower left the screen shown in may appear. The user selects one of the choices and presses OK. As shown in the system may prompt the user to prime the selected multi subject disposable tubing set. After pressing the Prime button the injector s piston is advanced forward to move fluid into the multi subject disposable set to displace air that is present in the system. After priming is completed the screen shown in may appear indicating that the system setup is now complete.

Following setup the user may be provided a screen that includes a Dosing button that when pressed causes the screen shown in to appear. This screen prompts the user to select a protocol i.e. a set of injection parameters by pressing the Protocol button located at the mid left of the screen. This action may result in the screen shown in appearing to allow the user to select a stored protocol to be executed. After selecting a protocol the screen shown in may appear which then prompts the user to enter information on the subject to be injected. When the user presses the Subject button located at the upper right the screen shown in may appear. This screen allows the user to enter specific information related to the subject to be injected. This information may include for example but is not limited to subject ID alternate ID gender and animal type. After saving this information the user is then prompted to prime the per subject disposable by the prime button being highlighted or color shaded. After pressing the Prime button the injector s piston is advanced forward to move fluid into the per subject disposable set to displace air that is present in the system. After priming is completed the screen shown in is shown that indicates that the system is now ready to inject. At this point the Arm button is highlighted or color shaded to indicate to the user that this button must be pressed next to energize the system to allow an injection. After the Arm button is pressed the screen shown in is displayed. The Inject Dose button is highlighted or color shaded to indicate to the user that this button must be pressed next to actually start the injection. After this button is pressed the injection takes place. When the injection completes the screen shown in may appear. This screen shows the dose and volume that was actually delivered by the injector. This screen may also show other information related to the injection that may be important to the user. This screen may allow this information to be transferred to a printer attached to the system for archival purposes.

Other screens within the GUI may allow other functions to be performed by the user. For example shows a screen that allows protocols to be entered and edited as part of a protocol management function. As another example shows a screen that allows the stored information from completed injections to be sorted by subject ID protocol lot number or date for instance.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements. For example it is to be understood that this disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

