---

title: Systems and methods for provisionally transferring an electronic currency
abstract: Persistent, electronically anchored currency notes (PEAC notes) may be generated by a transaction provider and maintained in a datastore. Each PEAC note may be associated with a respective unique identifier and an asset held by a custodian. The transaction provider may provide for assigning ownership of the PEAC notes to various entities and/or transferring ownership therebetween. Ownership transfers may be performed by the transaction provider while maintaining the PEAC notes in the datastore and/or maintaining the asset(s) associated therewith with their respective custodian(s). The transfer of a PEAC note may be tied to one or more transfer conditions. A PEAC note may be provisionally transferred from a first entity to a second entity subject to one or more transfer conditions. When the transfer conditions are met, the PEAC note may be permanently transferred to the second entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706626&OS=08706626&RS=08706626
owner: 
number: 08706626
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 418 176 entitled Systems and Methods for Electronically Circulating a Conditional Electronic Currency filed on Mar. 12 2012 and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 322 103 entitled Systems and Methods for Electronically Circulating a Currency filed on Nov. 22 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 645 079 entitled Systems and Methods for Electronically Circulating a Currency filed on Dec. 22 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 472 249 entitled Systems and Methods for Electronically Circulating a Currency filed on May 26 2009 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to payment transaction systems and in particular to systems and methods for provisionally transferring an electronic currency circulating as persistent electronically anchored currency notes PEAC notes .

Various payment systems are available through which a payee may accept payment from a payer. Many of these payment systems impose transaction costs. For example a credit card transaction may include fixed and percentage based transaction costs payable to the credit card issuer and or a credit card authorization service.

In addition many conventional payment systems require that the payer and or payee be registered with a payment service transaction provider . For example in order to pay via credit card the payee must apply and be approved for a credit account with a credit card issuer. Similarly the payee may be required to have a merchant account with the card issuer or have some other arrangement for accepting credit card payments . Some potential payees may not wish to register with a credit card issuer and or may not qualify for a credit line with the card issuer.

Furthermore the transaction may require that the payer and payee provide personal information to the transaction provider. For example the payer may be required to provide personal information in order to apply for an account with a transaction provider e.g. credit card issuer and the payee may be required to register a merchant account to receive payments through the transaction provider. Other transaction systems e.g. bank transfers many on line transaction systems and the like may require that personal information be disclosed.

This private personally identifying information may be maintained in confidence by the transaction provider e.g. credit card issuer . However information leakage may occur. For example merchants and transaction providers have experienced data breaches wherein customers personal information has been exposed.

Moreover the transaction between the payer and payee may require the payer to expose personal information. For example in a credit card transaction the payer may be required to provide a credit card number verification number and or a signature. This information could be used at a later time to make fraudulent transactions using the payer s card.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may provide for electronically circulating a currency to thereby provide low cost transactions which may minimize the need for personal information to be exchanged between transacting entities. In addition the transactions disclosed herein may be performed using little or no personally identifying information.

In some embodiments a transaction provider may maintain a set of persistent electronically anchored currency notes PEAC notes . As used herein a PEAC note may refer to a persistent electronic record of an asset e.g. anchored to an asset . A PEAC note may represent a physical currency note such as a United States dollar. For example a PEAC note may be uniquely associated with a particular physical currency note e.g. a US dollar held by a holder e.g. currency reserve deposit institution or the like . Accordingly a PEAC note may be an electronic representation of a particular physical currency note and as such may derive its properties and or value from the associated physical currency note a PEAC note associated with a U.S. twenty dollar bill may represent a value of twenty U.S. dollars.

In other examples a PEAC note may be associated with an asset such as a custodial account brokerage account deposit account money market account stock account or the like. A collection of PEAC notes may be associated with the asset each PEAC note representing a respective value. As will be discussed below the sum value of the PEAC notes associated with a particular asset may be determined by the value of the particular asset e.g. the circulating value of the associated PEAC notes may be less than or equal to the value or the asset or may exceed the value of the asset .

A PEAC note may be represented in a datastructure maintained by a transaction provider. Each PEAC note datastructure may be assigned a unique identifier a Unique Currency Note Identifier UCNID . The UCNID of a PEAC note associated with a particular physical currency note may be derived from the properties of the note such as serial number etc. The UCNID of a PEAC note associated with other types of assets e.g. custodial account may be generated using random data and or data configured to prevent identifier collisions. In some embodiments UCNIDs may comprise security features such as digital signatures or the like to prevent UCNID spoofing. In addition in some embodiments a UCNID may comprise a Uniform Resource Indictor URI or Uniform Resource Locator URL which may allow the PEAC note to be referenced on a network such as the Internet.

A PEAC note datastructure or generally PEAC note may identify the asset associated therewith. Accordingly the UCNID of a PEAC note may uniquely identify a particular physical currency note by denomination serial number and the like identify a particular asset e.g. identify custodial account at a particular institution or the like. In addition the PEAC datastructure may identify the holder or custodian of the associated asset. For example the datastructure of a PEAC note associated with a particular physical currency note may identify the currency reserve where the note is being held e.g. by name address contact information or the like . The datastructure of a PEAC note associated with an asset may identify the asset custodian and or institution holding the asset.

A PEAC note may include an owner identifier which may determine who currently owns the PEAC note. Ownership of a PEAC note may comprise ownership of the asset represented thereby. For example ownership of a PEAC note associated with a particular physical currency note a twenty dollar bill may represent ownership of the bill or the equivalent thereof . Ownership of a PEAC note associated with an asset having a quantifiable value may represent ownership of a portion of the asset as determined by the asset value and value of the PEAC note . For example ownership of a twenty dollar PEAC note associated with a custodial account may represent ownership of twenty dollars worth of the custodial account value e.g. twenty dollars in the custodial account .

The transaction provider may be configured to audit the custodians associated with the PEAC notes. Auditing may comprise validating that a custodian holds the physical currency note s associated with one or more PEAC notes. Alternatively or in addition auditing may comprise verifying that the asset e.g. custodial account associated with one or more PEAC notes has sufficient value to cover the circulating value discussed below of the PEAC notes. An audit may further comprise verifying asset insurance or other asset properties.

The owner of a PEAC note may be identified by a Unique Entity Identifier or UEID which may comprise a distinguished name an alias an email address or any other identifying information. The owner of a PEAC note may transfer ownership to another entity. Transferring ownership may comprise updating the owner identifier of the PEAC datastructure with the UEID of the new owner. The transfer may take place without affecting the asset associated with the PEAC note e.g. without transferring the associated physical currency note and or changing the value of the associated asset . Accordingly PEAC note ownership transfers may have little or no transaction costs. Similarly the transfer may take place while maintaining the PEAC note at the transaction provider e.g. without transferring the PEAC datastructure to either entity which may provide for high security transactions.

The transaction provider may maintain an ownership history of the PEAC notes circulated thereby. The ownership history may be maintained within the PEAC note itself e.g. in an ownership history field of the PEAC note datastructure and or using a multi valued owner identifier field . The ownership history may comprise a listing of each entity who has owned the PEAC note e.g. by UEID .

In some embodiments the transaction provider may provide public access to information about the PEAC notes circulated thereby. Access may be provided via a network such as the Internet. The transaction provider may provide an interface web page s to display information about a PEAC note which may include the current owner of a PEAC note PEAC note ownership history the asset associated with the PEAC note and so on. In some embodiments the UCNID of a PEAC note may be embodied as a URI which may be used to access the corresponding PEAC note page provided by the transaction provider. Alternatively a URL to the PEAC note page may be derived from the UNCID of the PEAC note e.g. the UCNID plus a static URL portion .

In some embodiments the institution may hold a currency reserve comprising a set of physical currency notes that are dedicated for use in the system . The currency reserve may include currency notes of any type and or in any denomination. For example the currency reserve may include a plurality of United States dollars Euros Canadian dollars and so on in various denominations. The currency notes held in the currency reserve may have certain attributes from which a unique identifier may be derived e.g. UCNID . For example United States dollars may include a serial number a series date and other attributes. These attributes may be used to generate a UCNID for the corresponding PEAC note which may uniquely identify the PEAC note datastructure and allow the PEAC note to uniquely identify the physical currency note associated therewith .

In some embodiments the institution may be the custodian of an asset such as a custodial account . The asset e.g. custodial account may have a quantifiable value e.g. an account balance . A plurality of virtual currency notes may be derived from the account each being assigned a respective value denomination and UCNID. The sum value of the virtual currency notes that may be derived from the account may be based on the value or insured value of the account as disclosed below.

The system may comprise a transaction provider . The transaction provider may comprise one or more computing devices e.g. server computers each of which may comprise one or more processors memory units not shown a datastore comprising computer readable storage media human machine interface HMI components e.g. input output devices displays etc. not shown communication interfaces and the like. As will be discussed below the transaction provider may be configured to provide various interfaces for managing PEAC notes transferring PEAC notes and the like. In some embodiments the interfaces may be provided as browser renderable markup such as Hyper Text Markup Language HTML . Accordingly the transaction provider may comprise a web server not shown or the like.

The transaction provider may be implemented using one or more computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium e.g. the datastore . Therefore portions of the transaction provider may be embodied as discrete software modules on the datastore . Other portions and or components of the transaction provider may be implemented using one or more hardware components and or may be tied to particular hardware components. For example the data structure discussed below may be tied to the computer readable storage medium and or the communication interface may be tied to particular communications devices e.g. network interface cards wireless transmitters etc. . Therefore portions of the transaction provider may be tied to a particular machine.

The transaction provider may be communicatively coupled to the institution and institution . The communication therebetween may be continuous and or periodic. In some embodiments the transaction provider may receive from the institution a listing of physical currency notes in the currency reserve . The listing may include attributes of the notes such as the denomination serial number and the like. Using this information the transaction provider may generate a plurality of corresponding PEAC notes datastructures in the datastore . Ownership of the PEAC notes may be assigned to and or transferred between entities via the network .

In some embodiments the transaction provider may receive information from the institution regarding the custodial account . The information may comprise a value of the custodial account an insured value of the custodial account a risk level and so on. Using this information the transaction provider may generate a plurality of virtual currency notes each having a respective denomination value and UCNID. Representations of the virtual currency notes may be stored as PEAC note datastructures in the datastore . Alternatively or in addition the transaction provider may provide a separate storage location not shown for the PEAC note datastructures associated non currency assets.

The PEAC note datastructures generated and or maintained by the transaction provider may be implemented using any data storage technique known in the art including but not limited to a file system structured data e.g. XML as delimiter separated values etc. a relational data store e.g. a database a directory e.g. a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP directory an X.509 directory or the like or the like.

In some embodiments the transaction provider may be in communication with the institution and or the institution discussed below to perform periodic audits. The audits may be performed against the currency reserve and or custodial account or any other asset against which PEAC notes have been generated . An audit of a currency reserve may comprise the transaction provider verifying that the currency reserve possesses the physical currency notes corresponding to the PEAC note datastructures maintained thereby. For example the transaction provider may maintain a PEAC datastructure corresponding to a particular physical currency note . The transaction provider may query the institution and or currency reserve thereof to verify that the note is actually present within the currency reserve . The association between the PEAC note datastructure and the particular physical currency note may be determined and or maintained based on the UCNID of the PEAC note which as discussed above may be derived from the serial number of a physical currency note e.g. note .

A similar audit procedure may take place for PEAC notes associated with an asset such as the custodial account . The transaction provider may determine a value of the PEAC notes associated with the account e.g. by identifying the PEAC notes that are associated with the account . The transaction provider may then query the institution and or custodian of the account to determine the current value of the account . The transaction provider may compare the value of the account to the sum value of the PEAC notes to determine whether the account is sufficiently funded.

In some embodiments a sum of the values of the PEAC notes associated with an asset e.g. the account may be maintained so as to be less than or equal to the value thereof Eq. 1

In Equation 1 Vrepresents the value of the asset e.g. value of custodial account which is to be maintained greater than or equal to a sum of the value of the PEAC notes associated therewith in Equation 1 t represents the number of PEAC notes associated with the asset and nis the denomination value of a particular one of the PEAC notes .

In some embodiments the transaction provider may allow only a certain portion of the value of an asset to the circulated. For example an account that is considered to be volatile e.g. invested in the stock market may be used to back PEAC notes totaling only the value of the account . Alternatively another account maintained by a well known and diversified institution may be allowed to circulate more than the value of the account e.g. may be leveraged . A leveraged or reduced circulation account may be expressed as follows Eq. 2

In Equation 2 r represents a leverage ratio of an account. If r is less than one the account may be allowed to circulate less than its value e.g. the account may be highly volatile if r is greater than one the account may be leveraged e.g. allowed to circulate more than its value .

The custodian of an asset may receive and or transfer PEAC notes within the system . Therefore the custodian may have ownership of one or more of the PEAC notes associated with the asset. In some embodiments the value of the PEAC notes owned by the custodian itself may not be counted against the circulating value of the asset since these PEAC notes do not necessarily represent a liability of the asset. The circulating value of an asset may therefore be calculated as follows Eq. 3

In Equation 3 CVrepresents the circulating value of the asset trepresents the total number of PEAC notes associated with the asset nis the denomination value of a particular PEAC note trepresents the number of PEAC notes associated with the asset that are owned by the asset custodian and nis the denomination value of a particular PEAC note owned by the custodian. As illustrated in Equation 3 the circulating value CVa is a difference between the sum of all of the PEAC notes associated with an asset and a sum of the PEAC notes owned by the asset custodian.

Combining Equations 2 and 3 the amount of virtual currency that may be associated with an asset may be expressed as Eq. 4

As illustrated in Equation 4 the circulating value of the PEAC notes of an asset the sum of the PEAC notes associated with the asset minus a sum of the PEAC notes owned by the asset custodian may be maintained to be less than or equal to the value of the asset V as scaled by a leverage factor r. The transaction provider may be configured to enforce the relationship of Equation 4 which may comprise the transaction provider preventing the custodian institution from withdrawing funds from an asset e.g. account preventing devaluation of the asset preventing underinsurance of the asset preventing electronic circulation of additional PEAC notes associated with the asset e.g. prevent the custodian from issuing new PEAC notes and so on.

Although is described in connection with a custodial account in an institution the disclosure is not limited in this regard. As discussed above other types of assets may be used to back PEAC notes under the teachings of this disclosure. The assets used to back PEAC notes may have a quantifiable value which may determine the total amount of PEAC notes that may be associated therewith e.g. using Equations 1 4 as described above .

The transaction provider may assign ownership to the PEAC notes maintained thereby to various entities . The transaction provider may be communicatively coupled the entities via the communication network which may comprise any communication network and or infrastructure known in the art e.g. a TCP IP network the Internet a virtual private network VPN a wide area network WAN a public switched telephone network PSTN a combination of networks or the like .

The entities may interact with the transaction provider using respective computing devices which may include but are not limited to personal computers laptops hand held computing devices cellular phones tablet computers etc. As used herein an entity may refer to any entity capable of entering into monetary transactions including but not limited to an individual person an organization a business organization e.g. a corporation a limited liability company LLC a partnership or any other business organization a storefront a group a non profit organization or the like

Each entity may be identified using a respective identifier or UEID. As discussed above a UEID may include but is not limited to an email address a DN a URI a uniform name identifier URN an OpenID identifier registered trademark of the OpenID Foundation Corp. Portland Oreg. or any other identifier capable of uniquely identifying an entity e.g. a legal name a corporate name a doing business as DBA name or the like .

In some embodiments one or more of the entities may be associated with a third party service which may be configured to authenticate the identity of the entities to the transaction provider and or authenticate messages transmitted thereby. The third party service may include but is not limited to a certificate authority e.g. an X.509 certificate authority an authentication authority and or identity provider e.g. a Security Assertion Markup Language SAML authentication authority a Liberty Alliance Authenticating Authority an OpenID provider etc. or any other service capable of authenticating the identity of an entity and or validating the authenticity of data transmitted thereby. In some embodiments the transaction provider may be configured to provide authentication and or authorization services e.g. the transaction provider may act as an authentication authorization authority .

The transaction provider may be configured to assign ownership of the PEAC notes maintained thereby to the various entities . As discussed above assigning ownership of a PEAC note to an entity may comprise updating an owner identifier in the PEAC note datastructure. Ownership of a PEAC note may be assigned and or transferred while maintaining the associated asset e.g. physical currency note and or custodial asset with the institution .

An entity may become the owner of a PEAC note in various ways including but not limited to purchasing one or more PEAC notes from the institution and or the transaction provider transferring one or more currency notes into a currency repository receiving ownership of one or more currency notes from another entity e.g. via a transfer or the like. In some embodiments the transaction provider may provide for adding currency notes to the currency reserve e.g. at the institution withdrawing currency notes therefrom as in a standard banking withdraw and or exchanging currency notes from a currency reserve and so on. Such deposits and withdraws may be verified by the transaction provider and corresponding PEAC notes may be added and or removed from circulation accordingly.

In some embodiments an entity may purchase one or more PEAC notes from a currency repository . The purchase may comprise the entity providing a payment and or depositing currency with the institution . The institution may then cause the transaction provider to generate corresponding PEAC notes for the entity and or may direct the transaction provider to transfer ownership of one or more existing PEAC notes owed by the institution to the entity . Alternatively or in addition PEAC notes may be purchased directly through the transaction provider . For example an entity may issue a request to the transaction provider to purchase one or more PEAC notes purchase 20 dollars worth of PEAC notes . The transaction provider may arrange a transfer of funds between the entity and the institution e.g. via a currency exchange check wire transfer credit card transaction or the like and or may transfer PEAC notes owned by the transaction provider to the entity . Although the disclosure provides several examples of mechanisms by which PEAC notes may be placed into and or taken out of electronic circulation and or purchased by an entity the disclosure is not limited in this regard and could be adapted to use any asset transfer mechanism known in the art. As described above however the purchase of a PEAC note by an entity including transferring ownership of the PEAC note thereto may occur while maintaining the asset associated with the PEAC note e.g. the physical currency note or asset in the institution .

In some embodiments the system may include a point of sale or kiosk device . The device may be used to deposit and or withdraw currency from electronic circulation. For example an entity e.g. the first entity may input physical currency notes into the device and or may transfer value to the device in other ways e.g. swipe a debit or credit card perform an account transfer or the like . An equivalent value in PEAC notes perhaps less a transaction fee imposed by a provider or operator of the device may be provisioned to the entity . For example the device may transfer the funds provided by the entity to the institution which may generate new PEAC notes for the entity e.g. deposit additional currency note s in the currency reserve and or transfer value into the custodial account . Alternatively or in addition the institution may assign ownership of one or more PEAC notes already owned thereby to the entity .

Similarly the first entity may request disbursement of one or more of its PEAC notes at the kiosk or point of sale device . For example the first entity may transmit a request through the kiosk or point of sale device to redeem or transfer PEAC notes owned by the first entity . Upon authorizing the request which may include the UEID and or authorization credential of the first entity as discussed below the transaction provider may transfer ownership of the identified PEAC notes to an institution e.g. institution and or to the transaction provider and an equivalent amount of physical currency may be provided to the first entity e.g. dispensed from the device provided as a redeemable receipt or the like . Alternatively the device may act as a point of sale device and the transfer may comprise transferring ownership of the identified PEAC notes to a storefront associated with the device to pay for a product or service.

The transaction provider may allow an owner of a PEAC note to transfer ownership thereof to another entity . In some embodiments the transaction provider may be configured to receive a transfer request from an entity e.g. entity . The transfer request may specify one or more PEAC notes to transfer to another entity e.g. entity . The transaction provider may authorize the request and if the request is authorized as described below may transfer ownership of the PEAC notes to the specified entity. Transferring ownership may comprise the transaction provider setting the specified entity as the owner of the specified PEAC notes.

As an illustrative example the transaction provider may receive a transfer request from the first entity to transfer a particular PEAC note to a second entity e.g. make a payment to the second entity . The transfer request may be received over a network e.g. by the communication interface of the transaction provider . The transfer request may include but is not limited to an identifier of a PEAC note to transfer e.g. include the UCNID of the PEAC note the UEID of the first entity an identifier of the second entity and so on.

The transaction provider may authorize the transfer request and if the transfer request is authorized may transfer ownership of the PEAC note to the second entity . Authorizing the request may comprise verifying that the first entity is the owner of the PEAC note . The transaction provider may query datastore to determine ownership of the PEAC note . In some embodiments ownership may be determined by comparing an owner identifier field of the PEAC note datastructure to the UEID of the first entity e.g. the owner identifier field of discussed below . If the identifiers match the transaction provider may verify that the first entity is the owner and the requested transfer may proceed otherwise the transaction provider may determine that the first entity is not the owner and the request may be rejected.

In some embodiments authorizing a transfer request may further comprise authenticating the transfer request and or validating that the transfer request was authorized by the transferor the first entity . The transaction provider may use one or more third party authentication authorization services to authenticate the identity of the entity and or to verify communications received therefrom e.g. verify the transfer requests . For instance the first entity may be associated with a particular third party authentication authorization service such as an OpenID provider and the transaction provider may be configured to receive information authenticating the identity of the first entity from the third party service . The first entity may provide an authentication credential to the service which may authenticate the identity of the first entity to the transaction provider e.g. via an application programming interface API such as the OpenID API SAML API Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP WS Security API or the like . In this way the transaction provider may authenticate the identity of the first entity without receiving private or information therefrom.

Alternatively or in addition to authenticating the identity of the entity the transaction provider may be configured to verify the authenticity and or integrity of the communications purportedly received therefrom e.g. the transfer request . In some embodiments the transaction provider may be configured to communicate with the entities including entity over a secure connection such as Secure Socket Layer SSL connection or the like. The communications layer may provide verification of the integrity of messages transmitted thereon e.g. verify that the request was not tampered with and or modified in transit . In addition the communications layer may provide authentication services e.g. mutually authenticated SSL . The communications themselves e.g. the transfer request may include authentication verification information such as an HTTP AUTH header a token a digital signature or the like. For example the transfer request may include a digital signature referencing a digital certificate issued to the first entity . The transaction provider may access a third party server e.g. certification authority to verify the authenticity of the signature certificate. This operation may validate the integrity of the transaction request and verify that it was transmitted by and or authorized by the first entity .

Alternatively or in addition the transaction provider may be configured to authenticate one or more of the entities directly. The transaction provider may provide for registration of one or more entities . Registration may comprise associating an identifier of the entity the UEID of the entity with an authentication credential such as a login name and or password. An entity may provide the credential to the transaction provider which may use the credential to verify the identity of the entity . Although particular authentication and or message verification techniques are discussed herein the transaction provider could be configured to implement and or leverage any authentication and or verification technique available in the art. Therefore this disclosure should not be read as limited in this regard.

After authorizing the request the transaction provider may transfer ownership of the PEAC note from the first entity to the second entity . As discussed above transferring ownership may comprise associating the PEAC note with the second entity in the datastore which may comprise setting an owner identifier field of the PEAC note datastructure to the UEID of the second entity . In some embodiments a record of the first entity s ownership may be maintained in the PEAC note datastructure e.g. in a multi valued owner identifier field in a dedicated ownership history field or the like .

In some embodiments the transfer request may not specify a particular PEAC note e.g. by UCNID but instead may specify that PEAC notes in amounting to a particular value are to be transferred e.g. transfer six 6 dollars to entity . In this case the transaction provider may be configured to identify PEAC notes owned by the first entity that amount to the requested value. If the PEAC notes can be identified e.g. if the first entity owns sufficient PEAC notes to fulfill the transfer request the transfer may proceed as described above.

Alternatively or in addition the transaction provider may be configured to automatically exchange one or more PEAC notes owned by the first entity for PEAC notes of the requested type and or amounting to the requested transfer amount. For example the transaction provider may exchange a twenty 20 dollar PEAC note owned by the first entity for one 1 ten dollar PEAC note a five dollar PEAC note and five 5 one dollar PEAC notes and to transfer ownership of the five dollar PEAC note and one 1 one dollar PEAC note to the second entity . Other exchanges may be made. For instance the transaction provider may be configured to exchange PEAC notes representing United States currency for PEAC notes representing Canadian currency transfer partial ownership in one or more PEAC notes and so on.

The transfer request may comprise a unique identifier UEID of the transferee e.g. the UEID of the second entity . The UEID of the second entity may be an email address of the second entity a DN of the second entity or any other identifier. Alternatively or in addition the second entity may establish one or more aliases with the transaction provider . The aliases may provide for redirection of transfers to a particular unique identifier to another unique identifier. For instance an alias may specify that transfers directed to john.doe.alias be redirected to john.doe openid.org. Therefore a transfer request specifying a transfer to john.doe.alias may result in a transfer to john.doe openid.org. The first entity may or may not be informed of the identifier associated with the alias e.g. the first entity may never know the true identity of the second entity . The first entity may use a similar alias which may or may not be disclosed to the second entity .

After processing the transfer request the transaction provider may be configured to transmit a record of the transaction to the first entity the second entity and or the institution . In addition the transaction provider may store a record of the transaction in the datastore e.g. in a table or other data structure adapted to store transaction records and or may generate a tangible record of the transaction e.g. a paper receipt . The transaction request may specify how the record of the transaction is to be processed e.g. may specify confirmation email addresses a physical address where a receipt may be mailed and so on . The transaction provider may be configured to provide recording of transaction requests that are fulfilled and or of transaction requests that are not fulfilled e.g. due to insufficient funds non ownership of currency or the like .

The transaction provider may provide for additional transaction types. As described above the transaction provider may allow PEAC notes to be exchanged e.g. converted into different denominations currency types or the like . For example the first entity may be the owner of a twenty dollar PEAC note associated with a corresponding physical currency note in the currency reserve . The first entity may submit request to the transaction provider to exchange the PEAC note for two 2 ten 10 PEAC notes. The transaction provider may authorize the request as described above and if the exchange request is authorized the transaction provider may transfer ownership of the twenty dollar PEAC note from the first entity and may transfer ownership of the second set of PEAC notes to the first entity . The original PEAC note the twenty dollar PEAC note may be transferred to another entity such as the institution the transaction provider or other exchange entity which may be the source of the second set of PEAC notes. If the twenty dollar PEAC note is associated with an asset e.g. custodial account the transfer may comprise exchanging the PEAC notes as described above or in some embodiments may comprise taking the twenty dollar PEAC note out of circulation discussed below and reissuing replacement PEAC notes associated with the asset.

The transaction provider may provide for any type of currency exchange. For example the first entity may exchange United States currency for currency of another type or denomination e.g. Canadian currency Euros or the like . In this case the institution may include a currency reserve comprising different types of currency. Alternatively or in addition the transaction provider and or institution may be communicatively coupled to additional currency reserves not shown in one or more foreign locales e.g. in Canada the European Union and so on . In some embodiments properties of a PEAC note ownership history promotional information and the like may be applied to the exchanged PEAC notes.

The system may include multiple institutions each of which may back PEAC notes with physical currency notes and or assets. The system includes a second institution which like the institution may participate with the transaction provider to electronically circulate currency as described above. For example the second institution may have a custodial account against which PEAC notes are issued and circulated by the transaction provider as described above.

The second institution may comprise a transfer account . A transfer account may be any financial account known in the art including but not limited to a checking account a savings account a depository account or the like. The transfer account may be owned by a particular entity within the second institution which may comprise a bank credit union or the like and may or may not . The entity may own the account and register it with the transaction provider such that transaction provider may transfer ownership of PEAC notes to from the account e.g. the account may be a transfer entity which may transfer and or receive ownership of PEAC notes . The account may be identified as a transfer entity using a public identifier UEID as described above.

When ownership of a PEAC note is transferred to the account the transaction provider may be configured to remove the transferred PEAC note from electronic circulation update the datastore and deposit the value represented thereby into the transfer account . Accordingly the transfer account may be a quick way of getting money out of electronic circulation redeeming PEAC notes .

If the transferred PEAC note is associated with an asset e.g. custodial account the value represented by the PEAC note may be transferred from the custodial account or some other source to the transfer account . If the transferred PEAC note is associated with a particular physical currency note e.g. currency note the notes may be removed from the appropriate currency reserve e.g. reserve and the currency note of equivalent thereof may be transferred into the account . Alternatively ownership of the transferred PEAC notes may pass to the transaction provider or another entity e.g. the institution or and an equivalent value may be transferred to the transfer account effectively increasing the amount of currency electronically circulated by the transaction provider .

The transfer account may also be used to put PEAC notes into circulation. For example when value e.g. twenty dollars is transferred from the transfer account and into electronic circulation to a particular entity the transaction provider may add PEAC notes or equivalents thereof which may comprise transferring the value from the transfer account into a custodial account e.g. account generating new PEAC notes in the datastore or accessing existing PEAC notes and transferring ownership of the PEAC notes the entity effectively increasing the amount of currency electronically circulated by the transaction provider . Alternatively the transfer may comprise transferring currency or equivalent value to the institution the institution adding physical currency notes to the reserve and transferring ownership of PEAC notes derived therefrom to the entity .

As discussed above in some embodiments the second institution may act as a custodian for an asset e.g. account which may be associated with PEAC notes circulated by the transaction provider . The accounts and may be linked to one another such that secure transfers may be performed therebetween e.g. using on us transfers . Alternatively or in addition the institutions and may share a pooled custodial account e.g. custodial account or other shared asset or account against which PEAC notes may be generated and circulated by the transaction provider as described above.

When ownership of a PEAC note held by a first institution e.g. institution is transferred to a second institution e.g. institution the linked accounts and and or the pooled custodial accounts and may be updated to reflect the transfer. For example an entity may own a PEAC note that is backed by the account of the first institution . The entity may transfer this PEAC note to the second institution . The transfer may proceed as described above e.g. ownership of the PEAC note may be transferred from the entity to the institution . Following the transfer the institution may request that the asset associated with the transferred PEAC note currency note or account value be transferred to the second institution . Responsive to the request the first institution may transfer the value of the transferred PEAC note from the custodial account to the institution e.g. to the linked custodial account via an on us transfer . Alternatively if a pooled account is in use the pooled account may be updated to transfer the value of the transferred PEAC note from the first institution to the second institution . The PEAC datastructure of the transferred PEAC note may be updated to indicate that the second institution is now the custodian of the PEAC note and or that the account is now backing the PEAC note.

If the transferred PEAC note is tied to a particular physical currency note held in the currency reserve of the first institution e.g. currency note the first institution may remove the note or an equivalent from the reserve and transfer the note or the equivalent the second institution . The transfer may comprise removing the PEAC note from circulation unless the physical note is transferred to a currency reserve not shown of the second institution . If the physical currency note is transferred or a pooled currency reserve not shown is in use the PEAC datastructure may be updated to indicate that the second institution is now the holder of the note.

The transaction provider may be leveraged to track certain types of payments or transactions using inter alia an invoice datastructure . An invoice datastructure may be assigned an identifier referred to generally as a unique invoice identifier or UIID . Like the UCNIDs discussed above a UIID may be embodied as URL and as such may be accessible to the entities via the network . The transaction provider may provide invoice interfaces web pages which like the PEAC note interfaces discussed above may be accessed via the Internet using the invoice UIID.

An invoice datastructure may represent a potential transaction between two or more entities the datastructure may identify a payee entity transferee entity a payer entity transferor entity and an invoice amount. The payee entity may identify the entity who is to receive a payment under the invoice and the payer entity may identify the entity that is make the payment under the invoice. The invoice amount may identify the value in a particular currency or denomination to be transferred under the invoice.

An invoice data structure may further include information describing the transaction such as the sale of a product procurement of a service or the like. Accordingly an invoice data structure may include a link to an auction a product description a service description provide terms of sale e.g. delivery date purchase terms terms of service license agreement etc. and the like.

The invoice payer may transfer one or more PEAC notes to the invoice datastructure . Transferring PEAC notes to an invoice may comprise transmitting a transfer request e.g. request to the transaction provider identifying the invoice e.g. by UIID as the recipient. Responsive to the request the transaction provider may transfer ownership of the PEAC notes to the payee identified in the invoice datastructure and may modify the invoice data structure to indicate that the invoice has been paid e.g. set invoice payment field of the datastructure to paid Accordingly when the payer pays an invoice e.g. transfers PEAC notes to a UIID the entity identified as the invoice payee may be given ownership of the transferred PEAC notes and the invoice datastructure may show proof of payment.

The invoice data structure may further comprise fields to record the UCNIDs of PEAC notes transferred to the invoice e.g. the PEAC notes transferred by the payer to the UIID of the invoice . Therefore both the invoice payer and payee may determine how and when a particular invoice was paid. As such invoices may be used to track inbound payments e.g. for order fulfillment accounts payable etc. as well as outbound payments e.g. act as a proof of purchase receipt or the like .

The transaction provider may provide an interface or other mechanism for generating an invoice datastructure . As discussed above an invoice may include a payer a payee an invoice amount invoice details and so on. An entity e.g. first entity may issue a request to the transaction provider to create an invoice datastructure . The request may identify the invoice payee e.g. the first entity or some other entity invoice details and so on. In response to the request the transaction provider may generate an invoice data structure comprising a unique invoice identifier UIID . As discussed above the UIID may comprise and or be associated with a URL which may allow entities to access the invoice via the network e.g. as a web page .

In one example an invoice datastructure may be generated by a first entity to invoice a second entity for an identified product or service. The invoice datastructure may indicate the invoice amount and provide details regarding the transaction e.g. identify a particular product service or the like . The transaction provider or the first entity may issue a notification message to the second entity to inform him her of the invoice. The second entity may transfer PEAC notes to the invoice by inter alia issuing a transfer request to transfer PEAC notes in the amount specified in the invoice datastructure to the invoice UIID. The transfer request may be handled similarly to the entity to entity transfer discussed above. The transaction provider may determine whether the request is authorized as described above and may transfer ownership of the identified PEAC notes to the payee identified in the invoice datastructure as described above. In some embodiments the transfer may comprise setting a payer field of the invoice data structure to indicate that the entity paid the invoice. The transfer may further include the transaction provider updating a payment field of the invoice datastructure to indicate that the invoice has been paid e.g. by setting a paid indicator to true providing UCIDs of the PEAC notes used to pay the invoice or the like .

In another example the first entity may generate an invoice datastructure that does not identify any particular entity as the invoice payer. This type of invoice may represent an open offer available to any entity and as such any entity may accept the offer by fulfilling the terms of the invoice e.g. transferring the required invoice amount thereto . Therefore any entity may transfer PEAC notes to the invoice generate a transfer request directed to the UlID and upon receiving payment the first entity may provide the product or service specified in the invoice datastructure or as directed by the entity identified as the payer in the invoice data structure .

In some embodiments the PEAC notes maintained by the transaction provider may be associated with promotional information which may include promotional assets branding information or other metadata. For example a PEAC note associated an institution may comprise promotional information to brand the note with an image or watermark identifying the institution .

Alternatively or in addition co branding information may identify the payer of the PEAC note or other related entity . The entity that owns or issues a PEAC note may be given the right to associate the PEAC note with promotional information such as a coupon discount code graphical elements video one or more links or the like. For instance an entity may pay a rebate to another entity using a PEAC note. The entity may include a promotional message identifying the rebate provider and or providing additional promotions with the PEAC note before transferring ownership to the entity . For example the promotional information may state thank you for purchasing widget A from manufacturer B please enjoy your rebate and get a twenty percent discount on a future purchase of B s products. When the entity views the PEAC note in an interface such as the interface E discussed below the promotional information may be displayed. Similarly if a discount is offered the discount may be available to the second entity when the PEAC note is used to make a purchase of B s products and or when the second entity follows a link embedded within the promotional information.

In some embodiments the transaction provider may comprise a promotion manager to manage associations between PEAC notes and promotional information. Promotional information and or associations between promotional information and PEAC notes may be stored in the datastore in a dedicated promotional information data structure not shown and or within PEAC note datastructures

The promotion manager may manage associations between particular PEAC notes and promotional assets using the datastore e.g. in the PEAC note datastructures and or in separate datastructure s linked thereto . As such the promotional information may remain associated with a PEAC note when it is transferred from entity to entity. In some embodiments certain promotional information may only persist through a pre determined number of ownership transfers and may be removed after being transferred a threshold number of times or after a predetermined amount of time . Alternatively the promotion information may remain associated with a PEAC note until removed as determined by the promotion manager .

In some embodiments promotional information may be retained when a PEAC note is exchanged for PEAC notes of other types or denominations e.g. broken up for change as discussed above . For example the transaction provider may allow an entity to convert a twenty dollar PEAC note into a ten dollar PEAC note and two five dollar PEAC notes the promotional manger may associate the promotional information associated with the original twenty dollar PEAC note to the new ten and five dollar PEAC notes.

In some embodiments the transaction provider using the promotion manager may allow the owner of a PEAC note to add remove and or modify promotional information associated therewith. For example the new owner of a PEAC note may remove all or portions of the promotional information applied by its previous owner. In some embodiments certain portions of the promotional information may be non modifiable. For example the transaction provider may not allow promotional information identifying the holder of the physical currency note e.g. institution to be modified to indicate a different institution. Accordingly the promotion manager may maintain access control information in association with the promotional information indicative of which entities e.g. entities institutions and so on may add modify and or remove various promotional information items. The promotion manager may enforce the access controls by authenticating and applying the access control rules to entities requesting changes to the promotional information.

The transaction provider may allow other entities which may or may not have had an ownership interest in a PEAC note to apply promotional information such as advertising assets thereto. For example the transaction provider may sell advertising space on the PEAC notes maintained in the datastructure to a PEAC note sponsor. discussed below shows one example of an interface for displaying promotional and or branding information in conjunction with a PEAC note maintained by the transaction provider .

The promotion manager may be further configured to validate promotional information associated with a particular PEAC note. For example PEAC note may be associated with promotional information granting the owner a discount or other benefit at a storefront . The discount may be activated when the entity follows a link embedded within the PEAC note e.g. as displayed in an interface such as the interface illustrated below in . The storefront may want to verify that the promotion is only used once. In one example the promotions manager may provide an API through which promotional information may be verified. The API may indicate whether certain promotional information is valid and or has already redeemed whether a particular entity is the owner a particular PEAC note and so on. After a promotion has been redeemed the storefront may inform the promotion manager via the API which may mark the promotion as redeemed remove the promotional information from the PEAC note modify the promotional information or the like.

The datastructure includes a unique currency note identifier field which may be used to store the UCNID of the PEAC note. As described above the UCNID may be derived from the serial number or other attributes of a particular physical currency note. The UCNID may be embodied as and or associated with a URL which may allow a page or other interface of the PEAC note to be accessed via a network e.g. the Internet . In some embodiments the UCNID may be used as a primary key of the datastructure and as such may be used to identify and or reference a specific instance of the datastructure .

The datastructure may further include an owner identifier field . The owner identifier field may be used to store an identifier e.g. the UEID of the owner of the PEAC note. The owner identifier field may be used as another key to index the datastructure e.g. as a primary key a foreign key or other indexing data . This may allow for quick identification of the PEAC notes owned by a particular entity.

In other embodiments the ownership field may comprise a list of partial owners of the PEAC note. In this case multiple owners may each own a portion e.g. a percentage of a PEAC note e.g. two 2 owners may each own fifty 50 percent of a PEAC note . Each owner may be allowed to transfer his her ownership interest in the PEAC note independently.

In some embodiments the owner identifier field may comprise a list that may include the current owner of the PEAC note as well as any previous owners. For example the current owner of the PEAC note may be placed at the head of the field with the following UEIDs being the previous owners. Alternatively or in addition information regarding the ownership history of the PEAC note may be maintained in a separate field not shown of the datastructure . Other embodiments may selectively omit the ownership history.

In addition although not shown in the data structure may include references e.g. identifiers foreign keys etc. to records of transaction s e.g. invoices in which the PEAC note was transferred between entities. The data structure may include a field not shown referencing the invoices or other transaction representations in which the PEAC note was involved. This may allow for auditing and or validation of particular transfers by e.g. tracing the transaction history of a particular set of PEAC notes.

The datastructure may include information describing the PEAC note. A field may identify the PEAC note type and or PEAC note issuer e.g. identify the PEAC note as representing a United States dollar a Euro or the like . A field may identify the denomination of the PEAC note e.g. whether the note represents a one 1 dollar bill a five 5 dollar bill and so on . Alternatively or in addition the UCNID of the PEAC note stored in field may include the denomination information and or may be used to validate the denomination information in the field . In this way the denomination may be tied to the UCNID to prevent tampering and or modification of the denomination field . Although not depicted in additional fields related to the PEAC note could be included such as the date the associated physical currency note was deposited in the currency reserve not shown and the like.

In some embodiments the datastructure may include information regarding the currency repository that holds the physical currency note associated therewith. For example a field may provide a unique identifier of the currency repository a UCRID . The UCRID may be a key that may be used to identify a datastructure comprising information about the currency repository not shown . A currency repository data structure e.g. database table could include an address of the currency repository contact information for the currency repository the date the associated physical currency note was verified to exist at the currency repository auditing information e.g. instructions for performing an audit of the currency repository to ensure that the physical currency note is present at the currency repository and the like. Alternatively the datastructure may include information regarding the currency repository directly in one of more fields not shown .

The datastructure may further include a field for holding promotional information. The field may include and or link to one or more graphical assets video assets links or the like which may be displayed and or otherwise made available in connection with a PEAC note. As discussed above promotional information may be used for various different purposes including but not limited to identifying the holder of the physical currency note or other asset associated with a PEAC note displaying advertising to an owner or other viewer of the PEAC note providing a special offer to an owner of the PEAC note branding the PEAC note and so on. Accordingly the datastructure may include a plurality of promotional and or branding information fields . In some embodiments the owner of the PEAC note e.g. the entity identified in the UEID field may be allowed to add remove and or modify the contents of the field . Alternatively the owner may only be allowed to add remove and or modify certain portions and or types of promotional and or branding information. For instance the owner may not be allowed to modify the field identifying the holder of the physical currency note and or asset associated with the PEAC note. Similarly if the field includes advertising information paid for by an advertiser a PEAC note sponsor the field may not be modifiable by the current owner.

The datastructure may include a unique currency identifier UCNID to uniquely identify the PEAC note. The UCNID may be generated from a set of random data and or from data configured to prevent ID collisions with other identifiers e.g. UCNIDs generated from physical currency notes . In some embodiments the UCNID of a virtual PEAC note a PEAC note associated with an asset rather than a particular physical currency note may be indistinguishable from the perspective of an end user from the UCNID of a PEAC note represented by the datastructure described above. Alternatively virtual UCNIDs may be configured to be readily distinguishable from UCNIDs tied to physical currency notes. The UCNID may be embodied as and or associated with a URL which may allow a page or other interface of the PEAC note to be accessed via a network e.g. the Internet .

The datastructure may include a currency type field and a denomination field . The currency type may indicate type and or issuer of the PEAC note. The currency type may be determined by the asset e.g. account account with which the PEAC note is associated. For example if the custodial account is in United States dollars the currency type of PEAC notes tied thereto may be United States dollars PEAC notes tied to an account in Euros may have a type of Euro and so on. In some embodiments the currency type may differ from the currency type of the associated asset e.g. the asset may be a precious metal that is not directly associated with any particular currency or denomination In this case insurance or other provisions discussed above may be required to prevent the account from becoming undervalued as a result of changes in currency exchange rates and the like e.g. if PEAC notes are in Euros and the associated account is in USD changes in the relative valuation of Euros to USD may cause the value of the PEAC notes to exceed the value of the associated account . The denomination field may indicate a denomination of the PEAC note.

In some embodiments the denomination may not be tied to an actual currency denomination. Accordingly the PEAC note of datastructure may have a denomination value of three dollars. However in some embodiments the denominations of the PEAC datastructure may be restricted to those available in the associated currency.

The account identifier field may identify the custodial account or other asset with which the PEAC note is associated. In some embodiments the full value of the account number may be omitted of obscured e.g. by a hash function to prevent tampering with the account or asset.

The account custodian identifier ACID may identify the custodian or institution responsible for the asset e.g. custodial account which may comprise identifying the bank credit union or other entity that is responsible for maintaining the asset e.g. the entity how act as the custodian for the custodial account .

The datastructure may include an owner identifier field which may operate similarly to the field described above to indicate the current owner of the PEAC note represented by the datastructure and or to provide ownership history information. The datastructure may comprise promotional information which may comprise and or link to promotional information associated with the PEAC note as described above.

The invoice data structure may include a unique invoice identifier UIID which may be embodied and or associated with a URL. The URL may allow entities to reference the invoice data structure via the Internet e.g. using a web browser or the like . An invoice payment field may indicate if the invoice has been paid. The invoice payment field may comprise a simple true or false indicator. Alternatively or in addition the payment field may comprise the UCIDs of the PEAC notes transferred to pay the invoice provide a date of payment and so on.

An invoice amount field may indicate the amount of PEAC note value in a particular denomination that is to be transferred under the invoice. In some embodiments the amount field may further include a list of preferred denominations currency types and so on.

An invoice details field may provide a description of the invoice including a detailed description of the invoice amount . For example the details field may identify a product or service associated with the invoice e.g. provide a link to an auction or catalog may provide terms of a purchase may provide terms of service provide itemized cost information used to calculate the invoice amount and so on.

An invoice payee field may comprise a UEID of the payee under the invoice the entity who is to retain ownership of any PEAC notes transferred to the invoice . The invoice payer field may comprise a UEID of the payer under the invoice the entity from which the PEAC note s are to be transferred or the entity who ultimately transfers PEAC notes to the invoice . In some embodiments the payer UEID field may be populated when the invoice data structure is created. In this case the invoice may be directed to a particular entity. Alternatively the payer UEID field may not be populated until the invoice is actually paid at which point the payer UEID field may be populated with the UEID of the entity who transferred the PEAC notes to pay the invoice. When processing a transfer to an invoice a transaction provider may only accept payment from the entity identified in the payee field e.g. a first entity may not be allowed to pay the invoice of a second entity . Alternatively the transaction provider may allow any entity to transfer PEAC notes to the invoice e.g. a first entity may pay the invoice of a second entity . In some embodiments the payee UEID and or the payer UEID may or may not be visible to other entities e.g. the invoice payer may not know the identity of the payee and vice versa .

Referring to the transaction provider may be configured to provide various interfaces to the entities and or institutions and for managing the PEAC notes circulated thereby. The interfaces may be provided via the network as browser renderable markup e.g. HTML . Accordingly the transaction provider may comprise one or more web servers or other server component s each comprising respective processors memories computer readable storage medium and the like. The transaction provider may be implemented in a clustered configuration e.g. may comprise a plurality of computing devices in a single location and or distributed geographically . However the disclosure is not limited in this regard and could be adapted to use any type of interface and or interaction technique known in the art. For example the transaction provider may be configured to interact with the entities and or institutions using stand alone applications and or applets running on the computing devices thereof. For example a cellular phone or smart phone of an entity may implement an application or applet configured to interface with the transaction provider and or present the interfaces thereof.

In some embodiments access to information presented in the interfaces of may be protected by access controls which may operate as described above e.g. using a third party service or the like . For example in some embodiments an interface displaying information regarding a particular entity showing the PEAC notes owned thereby may be restricted to the particular entity . For example only the first entity and or those entities authorized by the first entity may be allowed to view certain information about the PEAC notes owned by the first entity . In other embodiments access to ownership information may be provided to all interested entities . Similarly access to records of transactions performed by the transaction provider e.g. information regarding pending or completed invoices may be restricted to the one or more entities that are were parties in the transaction. For example access to an interface displaying information regarding a transaction between the first entity to the second entity may be restricted to the first entity the second entity and or to those entities authorized by the first and or second entities and or . Alternatively access may be open to all interested entities.

As disclosed above in some embodiments access to the interface may be restricted to the entity identified by the UEID or other entities authorized thereby . Access may be controlled via an authentication interface not shown whereby entities may authenticate their identity directly to a transaction provider and or through a third party service as described above.

The interface may include a listing e.g. wallet of PEAC notes A E owned by the entity . The wallet may display the total value of the entity s PEAC notes A E. Although the wallet of depicts a list of PEAC notes A E the disclosure is not limited in this regard. In some embodiments the wallet may display the PEAC notes A E as a collection of graphical images tabs or the like. A graphical display of a PEAC note may include a display of promotional information associated therewith e.g. graphical assets offer codes links branding information etc. discussed below provides one example of an interface comprising promotional information.

An action control may allow the user to electronically circulate e.g. transfer ownership of the PEAC notes A E while maintaining the asset s associated therewith with their respective custodians. Additionally the action control may allow the user to redeem PEAC notes which may remove the note s from electronic circulation as described above. The interface user may manipulate the action control may perform a selected action e.g. action on one or more selected PEAC notes A E. As shown in PEAC notes A E may be selected using respective check box inputs. However the interface could include any interface component and or selection mechanism known in the art.

The transfer action may cause a transfer request to be transmitted to the transaction provider. Selection of the transfer action may allow the user of the interface to provide an identifier of the entity to which the selected PEAC notes are to be transferred e.g. an email address distinguished name alias or the like . In some embodiments the interface may provide a look up mechanism whereby an identifier of a particular entity may be found e.g. using a directory of the transaction provider a list of recently used entities or the like . The transfer action may transfer ownership of the selected PEAC notes to the specified entity as described above e.g. ownership of the PEAC notes B and E may be transferred to the specified entity .

A user may access the interface to withdraw PEAC notes from electronic circulation e.g. transfer currency into another non electronically circulated account such as a checking or savings account . In one embodiment a user may establish an entity corresponding to transfer account e.g. transfer account discussed above . The transfer account may be assigned a public identifier e.g. a UEID and or URL . Accordingly transfers to from the transfer entity may cause PEAC notes to be withdrawn or added to electronic circulation as described above.

In some embodiments the transfer action may be configured to allow the user to enter a currency amount to be transferred e.g. eight 8 U.S. dollars . Responsive to this request a transaction provider or other service may be configured to automatically exchange one or more PEAC notes for the user to obtain PEAC notes in the proper denomination s to transfer the requested amount. For example the transaction provider may automatically exchange a U.S. twenty 20 dollar PEAC note for a ten 10 dollar PEAC note a five 5 dollar PEAC note and five 5 one 1 dollar PEAC notes. From these exchanged notes the transaction provider may transfer the five 5 dollar PEAC note and three 3 one 1 dollar PEAC notes to the specified entity. If a PEAC note in the desired denomination does not exist e.g. a transfer or fifty cents 0.50 is requested the transaction provider may provide for a transfer of a partial interest in a PEAC note e.g. transfer of one half ownership in a one 1 dollar PEAC note . Similarly an automatic exchange to another currency type e.g. from U.S. dollars to Euros may be made.

The exchange action may allow the user to exchange the selected PEAC notes for one or more other PEAC notes as described above. As discussed above the exchange may be made for PEAC notes of another denomination. For instance PEAC notes of a first type e.g. United States dollars may be exchanged for PEAC notes of another type e.g. Euros . Selection of the exchange action may allow the user to specify the denomination and or currency type to exchange.

The view history action may allow the user to view the ownership history of one or more selected PEAC notes. The ownership history may provide a listing of the one or more entities that have had ownership or an ownership interest in the selected PEAC notes e.g. notes B and E .

The asset information action may display information regarding the asset associated with the selected PEAC notes notes B and E . If the PEAC notes are associated with physical currency notes held in a currency reserve the asset information action may display information regarding the currency server e.g. contact information for the currency reserve or the like . If the PEAC notes are associated with an asset such as a custodial account the action may display information regarding the asset such as institution acting as asset custodian asset identification e.g. account number balance or the like and so on.

In addition an audit information action may provide information regarding an audit the PEAC note asset s . The audit information may include the last date the physical currency note s were verified to be at the currency reserve may provide an account balance and or indicate the last time the account balance was verified may indicate an insurance level of the asset or the like.

Although not shown in the interface could include additional actions such as reserve transfer action to request a transfer of selected PEAC notes into out of electronic circulation actions to view transaction information e.g. invoice information and the like. Similarly the action control could include an action dedicated to the use of a transfer account or transfer entity to quickly transfer PEAC note into out of circulation as described above.

As disclosed above each PEAC note maintained by the transaction provider may be assigned a respective UCNID which in some embodiments may comprise a URL or URI. The PEAC notes listed in the wallet each include respective URL identifiers A E. The URI URL identifiers may be referenced on a network e.g. the Internet to access PEAC note information e.g. a web page of the PEAC note . The transaction provider or other service may make information about a PEAC notes accessible using the UCNID thereof e.g. the URL or URI of the PEAC note .

The interface may include but is not limited to a display of the PEAC note identifier a display of the current owner a display of the currency type e.g. United States dollars Euros etc. a denomination indicator and or information regarding asset associated with the PEAC note e.g. information regarding a currency reserve and or asset custodian .

The ownership information may provide a display of an ownership history . The ownership history may include a listing of the previous owners A C of the PEAC note A. Although not shown in additional information such as references to transactions in which ownership of the PEAC note was transferred may be provided on the interface e.g. a list of associated invoices or the like 

As discussed above the asset information may provide a link to additional information relating to the asset associated with the PEAC note such as the currency reserve holding a physical currency note or the custodian of the associated asset e.g. custodial account . In the example currency reserve display is shown which may include an identifier of the currency reserve that holds the physical currency note of the PEAC note A as a UEID display currency reserve contact information display audit information and so on.

If the PEAC note displayed in the interface is associated with another type of asset e.g. a custodial account a different display may be provided. depicts one example of an interface for displaying information regarding a PEAC note associated with a custodial account. The custodial account display may include an UEID of the account custodian may identify the institution that holds the account if different than the custodian may indicate a value of the account display audit information indicate the account insured value and so on. The display may further comprise a leverage indicator which may display a ratio of the account value to account liabilities e.g. sum value of the PEAC notes associated therewith less the value of the PEAC notes held by the account custodian .

The transaction provider may be further configured to provide interfaces for displaying information regarding invoice transactions. As discussed above an invoice e.g. invoice datastructure may be used to maintain a record of PEAC note transfers the invoice datastructure may maintain an association between a PEAC note transfer and an agreement invoice to provide a product or service. This information may be used by a provider entity payee to verify payment before providing a particular product or service. Similarly the invoice information may be used by the consumer entity payer to prove that he she paid for a particular product or service.

The interface may include an invoice information display which may display information regarding the invoice identified by UIID . The invoice information displayed in may include but is not limited to an indicator of whether the invoice has been paid whether PEAC notes in the amount specified in the invoice have been transferred thereto invoice details invoice payee indicator a UEID or alias of the invoice payee invoice payer indicator a UEID or alias of the invoice payer if any and so on. In some embodiments the invoice payee indicator and or the invoice payer indicator may be omitted from the display and or may be displayed as aliases e.g. the invoice payee and or payer may remain anonymous .

If the invoice has been paid the indicator may display paid or fulfilled. Alternatively or in addition the indicator may provide links to the PEAC notes used to pay the invoice. Information regarding the one or more PEAC notes transferred under the invoice may be displayed in an invoice payment details display which as described above in conjunction with and or C may provide detailed information regarding the PEAC notes used to pay the invoice. This information may include an indicator of the UCNID currency owner indicator which may link to ownership history information not shown currency type indicator currency denomination indicator and so on.

The invoice details may display and or link to information regarding the product or service associated with the invoice. This information may include but is not limited to a link to an auction identification of a particular product or service and so on. The invoice details display may display additional invoice information which may include but is not limited to the price of the invoice an itemized listing of products or services to be provided under the invoice terms or service fulfillment details e.g. tracking number for a product shipped to the payer and so on.

The interface includes a graphical depiction of a PEAC note. The graphical depiction may be used to display a single PEAC note as in and or to display a collection of PEAC notes such as a plurality of PEAC notes in a wallet as shown in or other listing or collection of PEAC notes. The graphical depiction may include an indicator of the denomination of the PEAC note e.g. twenty dollars and may further include branding information identifying the holder of the physical currency note the currency reserve and or the custodian of the asset associated e.g. as an image watermark text or the like . The depiction may further include a link or other selection mechanism to display PEAC note information such as the note UCNID owner currency type denomination asset information and so on.

The display may include a promotional information display which as disclosed above may comprise graphical assets images video multi media or the like . The promotional information may comprise an advertisement a coupon an offer code a link or other promotional assets. In some embodiments the promotional information display may include a link to additional promotional information such as an offer or coupon code as selectable text a link to an external Website a link to a storefront or audio or the like. For example the promotional information and or may grant the owner of the PEAC note a discount when the PEAC note is used to make a purchase at a particular Website or storefront e.g. use this PEAC not in a purchase at storefront.com and receive a 20 discount .

The promotional information and or may be set by a current owners of the PEAC note by a previous owner of the PEAC note by a custodian of the asset associated with the PEAC note a currency reserve an account custodian or the like by a third party e.g. an advertiser or the like.

In some embodiments the interface may be publically available e.g. available to anyone who knows the UCNID and or URL of the PEAC note . Therefore in some embodiments the promotional display and or may include generally applicable promotional information available not only to the owner of the PEAC note but to anyone accessing the interface .

At step the method may start and be initialized which may comprise loading computer readable instructions from a computer readable storage medium accessing one or more hardware components e.g. communications interfaces computer readable data storage medium and the like and so on.

At step the method may receive a request to circulate an asset or set of assets as one or more PEAC notes. The request may comprise information regarding the asset to use as the basis for one or more persistent electronically anchored currency notes PEAC notes . The asset may be one or more physical currency notes stored in a currency reserve a custodial account or other asset having a quantifiable value. The information received at step may include but is not limited to the currency note type currency note denominations currency note serial number a currency owner of each currency note information regarding the currency repository of the note and the like. Alternatively the information may comprise information relating to a custodial asset such as a custodial account and may include but is not limited to the currency type to be associated with the assets a base value of the asset e.g. a minimum insured value etc. custodian information asset risk asset leverage ratio desired PEAC note denominations and or types and so on.

At step a plurality of PEAC note datastructures may be generated. Step may comprise determining how many and or the respective values of the PEAC notes. PEAC notes associated with particular physical currency notes may be assigned the denomination value thereof. PEAC notes associated with an asset e.g. a custodial account may be generated in arbitrary denominations values however the circulating value of the PEAC notes as determined using Equations 1 4 may be limited by the value of the asset. The information received at step may indicate a set of desired denomination values.

Step may further comprise generating a UCNID for each of the PEAC notes. In some embodiments a UCNID may be derived from properties of the associated asset e.g. serial number of a physical currency note represented by the PEAC note . Alternatively a UCNID may be securely generated to prevent tampering and or modification e.g. may comprise a digital signature or the like . The UCNID may be configured to prevent UCNID collisions.

At step the method may store the PEAC note datastructures in a datastore e.g. in a datastructure such as the data structures and or described in conjunction with A and B . In addition at step the PEAC note datastructures may be associated with respective owners. The owners may be one or more entities identified in the request or step e.g. a particular person a business an institution a transaction provider or the like . As discussed above ownership may be set using owner identifier field of the PEAC note datastructure e.g. field of .

At step a request to transfer a PEAC note from a first entity to a second entity may be received. The request may identify the transferor the first entity using a UEID of the first entity or alias thereof may identify the transferee the second entity using a UEID of the second entity or alias thereof and may identify the PEAC note to transfer using a UCNID.

In some embodiments step may comprise or be predicated upon an audit being performed on the custodian of the account associated with the identified PEAC note. The auditing may not occur each time the PEAC note is transferred but may be required to occur periodically e.g. after certain time intervals or the like . As discussed above auditing may comprise the method verifying that the custodian holds physical currency notes associated with the PEAC note and or that an asset e.g. custodian account has sufficient value to cover the circulating value of the PEAC notes associated therewith. In some embodiments if the audit fails PEAC notes associated with the failed custodian may be prevented from circulating until the custodian can prove that it is in possession of the associated asset or account value becomes sufficiently funded .

At step the request may be authorized. Authorizing the request may comprise verifying that the request was submitted by the first entity and or was authorized by the first entity verifying that the request was not modified and or tampered with in transit and or verifying that the first entity is the owner of the PEAC note to be transferred. If the request is authorized the flow may continue to step otherwise the flow may terminate at step . In some embodiments if the request is not authorized the requesting entity may be notified of the reason e.g. you do not own this PEAC note your identity could not be authenticated etc. .

At step ownership of the PEAC note may be transferred to the second entity. Transferring ownership may comprise associating the second entity e.g. a UEID of the second entity with the PEAC note e.g. in the PEAC note datastructure . In addition a UEID of the first entity may be added to a list of previous owners of the PEAC note. The transfer may occur while maintaining the asset associated with the PEAC note e.g. the physical currency note or other asset with its custodian.

The transfer of step may be to a transfer entity e.g. transfer account . As described above transferring ownership of a PEAC note to a transfer entity may cause the PEAC note to be removed from electronic circulation and the value thereof transferred into the account referenced by the transfer entity. As discussed above the transfer comprise transferring physical currency notes or equivalent thereof from a currency reserve and or transferring value from an asset such as a custodial account. Therefore step may further comprise transferring value associated with the PEAC note to the transfer entity transfer account and removing the PEAC note from circulation e.g. marking the PEAC note as being non transferrable .

In some embodiments the transfer of step may comprise a transfer to an invoice e.g. the second entity identifier may refer to an invoice identifier or UIID . The ownership transfer of step may be made to the entity identified as the payee under the invoice the entity identified in a UEID field of the invoice e.g. field in . In addition an invoice datastructure may be updated to indicate that a payment has been made thereto. For example a payment field of the invoice datastructure may be set to paid or fulfilled and or may reference the PEAC notes used make the payment e.g. by UCNID .

At steps the method may be initialized a request to circulate an asset as PEAC notes may be received and PEAC note datastructures may be generated and stored as described above.

At step a first entity may request to transfer a first one of the PEAC notes to second entity. The second entity may be one of the one or more institutions sharing a linked or pooled account as described above e.g. the institution of . At step the request may be authorized as described above and if the request is authorized the ownership transfer may take place at step as described above.

At step and following the transfer of ownership at step the second institution which is the new owner of the PEAC note may request the asset backing the PEAC note from a holder or custodian of the associated asset. If the PEAC note corresponds to a particular physical currency note the second institution may issue a currency transfer request to the entity identified as the currency repository the identified in field of . If the PEAC note is associated with another type of asset e.g. a custodial account the second institution may issue a transfer request to the account custodian identified in field of . As described above the transfer may be made within linked or pooled accounts and as such may be implemented as an on us transfer between the institutions.

The transferring at step may comprise the transferring entity the entity who owned the physical currency note or was the asset custodian prior to the transfer to the second entity verifying that the second entity is the current owner of the PEAC note. The verification may proceed similarly to the authorization of step described above.

Step may further comprise the method updating the PEAC note datastructure to indicate that the second entity now holds and or is the custodian of the PEAC note.

At step a request to transfer a PEAC note from a first entity to a second entity may be received. The request may be transmitted by and or authorized by a first entity may identify one or more PEAC notes to be transferred e.g. by UCNID of the PEAC notes and may identify a transferee e.g. the second entity using a UEID of the second entity and or an alias thereof .

At step the method may authorize the request. Authorizing the request at step may comprise determining whether the first entity transmitted the request and or whether the first entity authorized the request to be transmitted. Step may comprise receiving from the first entity a credential to authenticate the identity of the first entity. Alternatively or in addition step may comprise receiving a credential authenticating the first entity from a third party service e.g. an authentication provider such as an OpenID provider . The credential may authenticate a session of the first entity with the method . Alternatively or in addition the credential may be attached to the request itself e.g. as an HTTP AUTH header a digital signature or the like . If the method authenticates the identity of the first entity and or determines that the first entity authorized the request the flow may continue at step otherwise the flow may terminate at step .

At step the request may be further authorized which may comprise verifying that the request has not been tampered with in transit. In some embodiments the verification of step may be performed by the communication channel used to transmit the request. For example if the request was received over a secure communications protocol e.g. SSL or the like the method may verify that the request was not tampered with and or modified in transit. Alternatively or in addition the request may include a signature or other data that may be used to verify the request. If the request is further authorized e.g. verified to be free from modification or tampering the flow may continue at step otherwise the flow may terminate at step .

At step the request may be further authorized which may comprise verifying that the first entity the transferor is the owner of the PEAC note s to be transferred. As discussed above ownership may be determined by accessing ownership information of the PEAC note datastructures e.g. by comparing an identifier of the first entity to the ownership information of the PEAC notes . If the first entity is the owner of the identified PEAC notes the flow may continue to step otherwise the flow may terminate at step .

At step the method may transfer ownership of the PEAC note s to the second entity. Transferring ownership may comprise associating a UCNID of the PEAC notes with the UEID of the second entity or alias thereof in the corresponding PEAC note datastructures e.g. datastructures and or . In addition if the method is configured to maintain a record of the ownership history of PEAC notes the first entity or alias thereof may be added to a list of previous owners of the transferred PEAC note s . As described above the transfer of step may include transfer to from a transfer entity which may involve adding and or removing PEAC notes from electronic circulation.

At step a record of the transaction may be recorded. The record may be made on a datastore e.g. computer readable storage medium and or on a tangible medium such as a paper receipt. The record may be maintained by the method and or may be made available to the first entity and or the second entity e.g. via a user interface by mail by electronic message or the like .

At step the method may transmit a confirmation message to the first entity and or the second entity. The confirmation message may include the details of the transfer such as the PEAC notes transferred the date and or time of the transfer and the like. The confirmation message may be authenticated by the method e.g. using a digital signature or the like to allow a recipient of the message to verify the authenticity or the message and or to verify that the message has not been modified or tampered with.

At step the method may terminate without performing the transfer. In some embodiments step may include the method recording a record of the failed transaction. The record may specify the reason s the transaction was aborted e.g. failure to authenticate the request first entity not the owner of the currency etc. . The record may be recorded on a computer readable storage medium and or on a tangible medium e.g. a paper receipt . Alternatively or in addition the record may be transmitted to one or more of the parties to the aborted transaction e.g. first entity the second entity of the like .

At step a request to transfer one or more PEAC note s from a first entity to an invoice may be received. The request may be transmitted by and or authorized by a first entity may identify the one or more PEAC notes to be transferred e.g. by UCNID and may identity an invoice to which the notes are to be transferred using a UIID and or an alias thereof.

At steps and transfer request may be authorized as described above. If any of the steps and or fail the flow may terminate at step as described above which may comprise informing the requesting entity that the transaction could not be completed .

At step the PEAC notes identified in the transaction request of step may be associated with the identified invoice. The association of step may comprise setting a payment field of an invoice data structure to the UCNIDs of the PEAC notes. The association may allow the invoice payer invoice payee and or other entities to view invoice payment details e.g. verify that the invoice was paid show which PEAC notes were used to pay the invoice and so on .

At step ownership of the PEAC notes associated with the invoice may be transferred to entity identified as the payee under the invoice e.g. the UEID of an invoice payee field . The ownership transfer may take place as described above.

At steps and a record of the transaction may be stored confirmation may be transmitted and the method may terminate as described above. Step may further comprise recording a record of the invoice which may comprise storing the updated invoice reflecting the transfer on the datastore and or producing a tangible record of the invoice.

Although the flow diagrams of and A B describe a transaction to transfer ownership of electronically circulated PEAC note s the methods could be adapted to perform any other PEAC note related task including but not limited to exchanging a first set of PEAC notes for a second set of PEAC notes e.g. PEAC notes of another denomination issued by another entity or state and so on viewing the ownership status of a PEAC note viewing the ownership history of a PEAC note viewing asset information e.g. information regarding the currency reserve or asset custodian on a PEAC note accessing audit information purchasing PEAC notes redeeming PEAC notes and so on. Therefore the flow diagrams of and A B should not be read as limited to any particular set of PEAC functions.

At step a request to add modify and or delete promotional information associated with one or more PEAC notes may be received. The request may include the promotional information to be associated with the PEAC notes e.g. assets such as images video audio multimedia links or the like may include edits to promotional information already associated with one or more notes may include links to promotional information or the like.

At step the method may determine whether the request is authorized. The determination may comprise authenticating the originator of the request e.g. using an authentication authority credential or the like as described above . The determination may further include evaluating access control information associated with the promotional information and or PEAC notes to be modified. As discussed above access control information may specify which entities may add delete and or modify which portions of promotional information associated with a PEAC note. If the request is not authorized the flow may continue at step otherwise the flow may continue at step . Step may comprise determining the current owner of the PEAC note determining the custodian of the asset associated with the PEAC note determining a sponsor of the PEAC note and so on.

At step the request may be denied and the flow may terminate at step . Step may further comprise returning a message to the requester indicating the reasons for the failure e.g. failure to authenticate denial of access etc. .

At step the promotional information may be associated with the PEAC note s specified at step . Accordingly step may comprise storing the promotional assets or other information provided at step in a computer readable storage medium and associating e.g. linking one or more PEAC note datastructures therewith. Step may further comprise modifying and or deleting promotional information already stored and or associated with the identified PEAC note s .

At step the promotional information may be displayed in connection with the identified PEAC notes in an interface such as the interface of . As discussed above the promotional information may include any number of different asset types including but not limited to images video audio links multimedia Flash text and the like. The display of step may be defined in the promotional information. For example the promotional information provided and or referenced at step may include layout information specifying how the assets are to be displayed and or presented in the interface. Alternatively the interface itself and or a user of the interface may determine how various promotional assets are to be presented.

In some embodiments the display of various portions of the promotional information may depend on the entity to which the promotional information is being displayed. For example a discount code may only be redeemable to the current owner of the PEAC note. Accordingly the discount code may only be displayed to the current owner of the PEAC note. Display restrictions and or preferences may be defined in the promotional information received at step .

At step an inquiry regarding promotional information may be received. The inquiry may be issued by an entity e.g. storefront Website or the like to which promotional information has been presented. For instance when an owner of a PEAC note associated with a discount code presents the PEAC note and or code to a storefront for redemption the storefront may make a request to the method to verify that the promotional information is valid has not yet been redeemed and or that the entity presenting the PEAC note and or code is authorized to do so is the current owner of the PEAC note . Accordingly the inquiry of step may include the promotional information that is the subject of the inquiry or an identifier thereof an identifier of the entity who presented the promotional information e.g. as a UEID or the like an UCNID of the PEAC note associated with the promotional information an identifier of the storefront to which the promotional information was presented and so on.

At step the method may validate the promotional information which may comprise determining whether the entity who presented the promotional information is the owner of the identified PEAC note verifying that the promotional information has not yet been redeemed verifying that the promotional information is properly associated with the PEAC note verifying that the promotional information has not been modified e.g. corresponds to promotional information associated with the identified PEAC note and so on. If the request is not authorized the flow may continue to step otherwise the flow may continue at step .

At step the request may be denied which may comprise replying to the inquiry with an indication that the request cannot be authorized. The reply may indicate the reason the request was not authorized.

At step the method may provide a response indicating that the promotional information was successfully validated.

At step the promotional information subject to the inquiry may be modified and or updated to reflect the inquiry of step . If the promotional information was redeemed e.g. if the promotional information was a one time use coupon or discount code the promotional information may be removed from association with the PEAC note or otherwise marked as redeemed . Alternatively a counter associated with the promotional information may be updated e.g. to reflect the number of accesses and or uses thereof . In some embodiments the inquiry of step may specify how to modify the promotional information e.g. may specify that the promotional information is to be modified removed transferred or the like .

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be used to implement various different types of payment transactions. In some embodiments PEAC notes may be used to implement secure gift card type transactions. A gift card or conditional PEAC note refers to a PEAC note that is subject to one or more usage conditions. For example a conditional PEAC note may be redeemable only at a particular business entity e.g. a PEAC note may be restricted to use at a particular business .

Payment for a traditional gift card is typically transferred to an issuer which then becomes obligated to accept the gift card as payment for goods and or services provided thereby. Accordingly the value of a gift card may be or may appear to be dependent upon the viability of the issuer. If the issuer becomes insolvent e.g. declares bankruptcy or is otherwise unable to satisfy the gift card owner s needs the value of the gift card may be obviated. Therefore customers may be wary of purchasing gift cards particularly from smaller lesser known issuers.

In some embodiments a gift card or conditional PEAC note is provided. As used herein a conditional PEAC note refers to a PEAC note that is subject to one or more usage conditions. The usage conditions may include but are not limited to limiting the PEAC note to use at particular entity limiting the PEAC note to particular types of transfers limiting the PEAC note to particular types of purchases and so on. A usage condition may be used to modify the appearance of a PEAC note. For example when displayed in an interface such as interface of the conditional PEAC note may comprise branding or promotional information of the entity at which the gift card PEAC note may be redeemed.

A conditional PEAC note may further comprise one or more release conditions. As used herein a release condition refers to a condition that when met releases one or more of usage conditions. In some embodiments a release condition may cause a conditional PEAC note to revert to a standard unconditional PEAC note. A release condition may include but is not limited to a timing constraint e.g. the usage conditions may expire after a pre determined time a solvency constraint e.g. usage conditions may be lifted if the issuer becomes insolvent and so on. In some embodiments usage conditions may be automatically removed upon satisfying one or more release conditions. For example usage conditions may be removed when a conditional PEAC note is transferred to a qualifying entity e.g. the issuer or storefront associated with the conditional PEAC note .

A transaction provider may evaluate release conditions to determine whether one or more usage conditions of a conditional PEAC note should be removed. The assurance that usage conditions can be removed under appropriate circumstances may provide added confidence in the purchase of conditional PEAC notes since the chance of the conditional PEAC notes losing their value is significantly reduced. Moreover since the underling value of a conditional PEAC note remains with the owner and is tied to the underlying asset the chance of loss due to the issuer becoming insolvent is obviated.

In some embodiments a data structure representing a PEAC note may be extended to include and or reference one or more usage conditions and or release conditions. depicts one example of a PEAC note data structure that includes a usage conditions field which may comprise and or reference usage conditions of a PEAC note. The data structure may further include a release conditions field which may comprise and or reference release conditions of the PEAC note.

In some embodiments an issuer may create a conditional PEAC note by acquiring ownership of a PEAC note and imposing one or more use conditions and or release conditions on the PEAC note resulting in a conditional PEAC note . The issuer may transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note to another entity. The conditional PEAC note may retain the use and or release conditions when ownership is transferred. The conditions may remain on the conditional PEAC note until ownership returns to the issuer and or one or more of the release conditions are met.

Referring to a storefront that owns a PEAC note may use the transaction provider to convert the PEAC note into a conditional PEAC note. The storefront may issue a request to the transaction provider to convert the PEAC note via the network. The request may specify the usage and or release conditions to be applied to the PEAC note . Alternatively or in addition the storefront may maintain pre determined usage and or release conditions within the datastore of the transaction provider . In response to the request the transaction provider applies one or more usage and or release conditions on the PEAC note .

In some embodiments the first entity may purchase a conditional PEAC note from the storefront by exchanging one or more PEAC notes owned by the first entity for one or more conditional PEAC notes of the storefront .

Alternatively or in addition the first entity may convert an unconditional PEAC note into a conditional PEAC note associated with an issuer such as the storefront . The conversion may comprise the transaction provider applying one or more usage and or release conditions on the PEAC note as described above. In some embodiments the storefront may provide incentives for purchasing e.g. converting conditional PEAC notes. Such incentives may include but are not limited to rebates discounts or the like. Ownership of a conditional PEAC note may remain with the first entity . The first entity may be allowed to transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note to a second entity .

In some embodiments ownership of a conditional PEAC note or other type of PEAC note may be transferred to a placeholder owner . As used herein a placeholder owner refers to an entity that holds ownership of one or more PEAC notes until the PEAC notes are transferred to an intended recipient. Accordingly a placeholder owner may perform an escrow function. A placeholder owner may be associated with a credential such as a redemption code PIN or the like. The transaction provider may be configured to transfer ownership of PEAC notes held by a placeholder owner when presented with the credential. For example a placeholder owner may hold ownership of a conditional PEAC note and the credential of the placeholder owner may be printed on a physical card not shown . An entity may receive the physical card and provide the credential to the transaction provider via the network . The transaction provider may validate the credential and transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note to the entity .

As discussed above a conditional PEAC note may be subject to usage restrictions. Accordingly the transaction provider may evaluate the usage conditions when ownership of the conditional PEAC note is transferred. In some embodiments the transaction provider may prevent a conditional PEAC note from being transferred if the transfer would violate one of more of the usage conditions.

Step may comprise converting the PEAC note into a conditional PEAC note which may include applying one or more usage and or release conditions to a PEAC note as described above. The usage and or release conditions may be included in the PEAC note datastructure on the computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments step may comprise transferring the conditional PEAC note to a new owner such as a placeholder owner or the like as described above.

In some embodiments step comprises a storefront or other entity generating a request to create a conditional PEAC note. The request may specify usage and or release constraints for the conditional PEAC note as described above. Alternatively or in addition the storefront may reference one or more pre established usage and or release constraints to be applied to the PEAC note. In response to the request a transaction provider such as the transaction provider described above may authorize the request e.g. verify that the storefront owns the PEAC note and convert the PEAC note into a conditional PEAC note as described above. The storefront may then transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note to another entity e.g. a purchaser as described above. An entity such as the first entity may purchase the conditional PEAC note from the storefront. In another example an entity may convert a PEAC note which it owns into a conditional PEAC note associated with a particular issuer e.g. storefront as described above.

At step a request to transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note is received. The request may identify the transferor and intended transferee of the conditional PEAC note as described above. The request may further comprise a credential to authenticate the identity of the transferor and or authenticate the request as described above.

Step may comprise determining whether the request is authorized as described above. Step may further comprise evaluating one or more usage conditions on the conditional PEAC note. The usage conditions may restrict the entities to which the PEAC note may be transferred e.g. may only be used at a particular storefront etc. . The usage conditions may however allow one or more person to person transfers. Accordingly step may comprise evaluating the usage conditions in accordance with the intended transferee. Other usage conditions may relate to product or service constraints e.g. determine the type of product or service that may be purchased with the conditional PEAC note and so on. Accordingly step may comprise evaluating other aspects of the transfer request such as an invoice receipt or the like.

Step may further comprise evaluating one or more release conditions of the conditional PEAC note. As described above release conditions may define conditions under which one or more of the usage conditions on a conditional PEAC node are removed. Removing a usage condition may allow the conditional PEAC note to be transferred even if the transfer would violate the removed usage condition. The removed usage condition may be deleted from the conditional PEAC note datastructure.

In some embodiments a conditional PEAC note may be associated with promotional materials such as a discount special offer or the like. Accordingly step may comprise validating and or applying one or more promotions as described above.

If step indicates that the request is authorized and the usage conditions are met the flow may continue to step where ownership is transferred as described above. At step the flow terminates until a next transfer request is received.

At steps and the method starts is initialized establishes a PEAC note asset generates PEAC note datastructures stores the PEAC note datastructures in a non transitory computer readable storage medium and creates a conditional PEAC note as described above.

Step may comprise transferring ownership of the conditional PEAC to a placeholder owner as described above. Step may comprise establishing a credential that may be used to transfer ownership of the conditional PEAC note. The credential may comprise a human readable code password PIN or the like. The credential may be encoded on a physical media such as a card paper slip receipt gift box or the like.

Step comprises receiving a request to claim the conditional PEAC note. The request may be received at a transaction provider over a network. The request may identify the conditional PEAC note and or the credential of step . The request may identify the entity to which the conditional PEAC note is to be transferred. Alternatively or in addition the request may establish a new entity account with the transaction provider.

At step the request is validated which may comprise authenticating the entity associated with the request validating the credential of the request verifying ownership of the conditional PEAC note e.g. verifying that the conditional PEAC note has not already been claimed and so on. If the request is validated the flow may continue to step otherwise the flow terminates at step . Step may comprise evaluating one or more usage conditions associated with the PEAC note to verify that the transfer can take place as described above. Step may further comprise evaluating release conditions to determine whether one or more of the usage conditions should be removed as described above.

Step may comprise transferring ownership of the conditional PEAC note from the placeholder entity to the entity specified in the request. Step may further comprise removing the placeholder entity from a datastore if the placeholder no longer owns any PEAC notes . Step may further comprise maintaining usage and or release conditions associated with the conditional PEAC note. Step may further comprise evaluating release conditions of the conditional PEAC note to determine whether any of the usage conditions should be removed as described above.

At steps and the method starts is initialized establishes a PEAC note asset generates PEAC note datastructures stores the PEAC note datastructures in a non transitory computer readable storage medium and creates a conditional PEAC note as described above.

Step comprises evaluating one or more release conditions of the conditional PEAC note. Step may comprise determining that one or more usage conditions of the conditional PEAC note should be removed. Accordingly step may comprise converting a conditional PEAC note into an unconditional PEAC note.

Step may be initiated in response to a transaction involving the conditional PEAC note a periodic audit of usage conditions e.g. the transaction provider or other entity may be configured to periodically audit the usage conditions of conditional PEAC notes or a request from the owner of the conditional PEAC note.

Step may be used to release a conditional PEAC note from one or more usage conditions that cannot be satisfied. For example usage condition that a conditional PEAC note be used at particular storefront may be released if the storefront becomes insolvent. In another example a usage condition may be removed in response to the storefront changing its prices or policies the expiration of a time limit or the like as described above. If evaluation of step determines that one or more usage conditions should be removed the flow continues to step otherwise the flow terminates at step .

Step comprises removing the usage constraints identified at step from the conditional PEAC note. Subsequent transfers of the PEAC note may not be subject to the usage conditions removed at step . Step may comprise updating a PEAC note datastructure in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. Step may comprise converting the conditional PEAC note into a standard unconditional PEAC note as described above.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be used to implement various different types of payment transactions. In some embodiments PEAC notes may be used to implement Point of Sale PoS transactions. A provisional PEAC note refers to a PEAC note that is provisionally transferred to another holder the transfer becoming permanent when certain transfer conditions are met. The transfer conditions may include but are not limited to the transferee entering a payment code the transferee submitting an invoice for the transaction the transferee completing the transaction within a certain time period and so on. When the transfer conditions are met the transfer is completed and becomes permanent. For example a provisional PEAC note may become permanent only after a transferee provides a payment or transaction code to a transaction provider the payment code having been securely provided to the transferor and communicated to the transferee as part of the transaction. A holder of a PEAC note creates a provisional PEAC note by requesting a provisional transfer of the PEAC note to a specified recipient i.e. a transferee . A transaction provider will process the transfer request provisionally transfer the PEAC note and associate the one or more transfer conditions with the PEAC note thereby creating a provisional PEAC note. The transfer will remain pending that is the transferee will not have possession or ownership of the PEAC note until the named transferee satisfies the one or more transfer conditions e.g. provides the payment or transaction code to the transaction provider . In some embodiments a data structure representing a provisional PEAC note may be extended to include and or reference one or more transfer conditions. In some embodiments a provisional PEAC note is a PEAC note requiring a two stage authentication.

In some embodiments the data structure representing a provisional PEAC note may comprise a payment or transaction code which must be submitted to a transaction provider by a transferee in order to complete i.e. make permanent the transfer. A holder of a PEAC note creates a provisional PEAC note by requesting a provisional transfer of the PEAC note to a specified recipient i.e. a transferee . A transaction provider will process the transfer request generate a payment or transaction code and create a provisional PEAC note by associating the payment or transaction code with the provisional PEAC note. The transfer will remain pending that is the transferee will not have possession or ownership of the PEAC note until the named transferee provides the payment or transaction code to the transaction provider. In some embodiments the provisional PEAC note is subject to a timing constraint where the PEAC note will revert to the transferor if the transfer is not completed i.e. the payment code is not received by the transferee within a pre determined time. The pre determined time may be set by the transaction provider or may be selected by the transferor.

In some embodiments the payment code may be temporary so that the provisional transfer of the PEAC note will fail or remain incomplete if the payment code is not received by the processing system within a pre determined time. For example the temporary payment code may expire in as little as 2 minutes for transactions where the provisional transfer is initiated as part of a checkout process or where the transaction may be spur of the moment i.e. not pre meditated . As another example the temporary payment code may expire after 2 hours for transactions that are pre meditated planned or where the provisional transfer begins well before the checkout process. In some embodiments the provisional PEAC note is subject to the same timing constraint as the payment code so that if the payment code expires the provisional transfer of the PEAC note will fail. In other embodiments the provisional PEAC note is not subject to the same timing constraint as the payment code so that if the payment code expires the provisional transfer of the PEAC note will remain incomplete and a new payment code will need to be generated to complete the PEAC note transfer.

After generating the payment code the transaction provider will deliver the payment code to the transferor. In some embodiments the transaction provider sends the payment code via secure delivery. For example the transaction provider may encrypt the payment code or may send the payment code only after authenticating the transferor e.g. by verifying an authentication credential such as a login name and or password . After receiving the payment code the transferor presents the payment code to the transferee as part of the transaction e.g. during checkout .

In some embodiments the payment code is a short code e.g. 4 8 characters long that may be easily entered manually by a person e.g. a cashier at a PoS system such as kiosk or point of sale device . In other embodiments the payment code is a bar code or other machine readable optical code that may be scanned into a PoS system using a barcode reader or optical scanner. In other embodiments the payment code is a long e.g. 16 128 characters alphanumeric sequence that may be transmitted to a PoS system using a short range wireless communication interface e.g. a near field communication NFC interface an infrared transmitter or a BLUETOOTH adapter . Electronic transmission reduces the possibility of error and also improves security. In some embodiments the payment code comprises two parts a complex electronically readable code such as a barcode or wirelessly transmitted sequence and a simple manually entered code such as a 3 4 digit verification code . The two part payment code enhances security while remaining user friendly.

After receiving the payment code the transferee may use a PoS system such as kiosk or point of sale device to submit the payment code and an invoice amount to the transaction provider. The transaction provider verifies that the payment code matches the code associated with the provisional PEAC note and finalizes the transfer of the PEAC note. If the invoice amount is less than the value of the PEAC note the transaction provider may transfer any excess amount back to the transferor. For example if a PEAC note with a value of 50.00 was provisionally transferred to a restaurant but the invoice was only 42.79 then the difference of 7.21 will be returned to the transferor. In some embodiments if the invoice amount is greater than the value of the PEAC note then the provisional transfer will fail. For example if a user provisionally transfers a PEAC note with a value of 50.00 to a merchant and the merchant submits an invoice for 50.06 then the transfer will fail and the user will need to initiate a new transfer of a PEAC note either a provisional PEAC note or another type of PEAC note . In other embodiments if the invoice becomes greater than the value of the provisional PEAC note then the full value of the provisional PEAC note is transferred and the PoS system is informed that payment has been received only for the full value of the provisional PEAC note. In some embodiments the provisional PEAC note is subject to a timing constraint where the PEAC note transfer fails if the payment code is not received from the transferee within a pre determined time. In other embodiments the provisional PEAC note has no timing constraint and the provisional PEAC note persists until all its value has been permanently transferred or until it has been explicitly revoked by the transferor.

While the provisional PEAC note transfer has been described in terms of transferring a single PEAC note in some embodiments the provisional PEAC note transfer comprises a plurality of PEAC notes. The plurality of PEAC notes do not need to each have the same value. For example a user may request the provisional transfer of a PEAC note worth 5 a PEAC note worth 10 and a PEAC note worth 20 to a transferee as part of the same transaction. Where the invoice amount is less than the sum value of the provisionally transferred PEAC notes the transaction provider may return any PEAC note not needed to complete the transaction as well as a portion of a PEAC note used if applicable. As an example for a provisional transfer of PEAC notes worth 5 10 and 20 and an invoice amount of 26.50 the transaction provide may return the 5 PEAC note and a value of 3.50 on either the 10 PEAC note or the 20 PEAC note. Alternatively the transaction provide may return a value of 8.50 on either the 10 PEAC note or the 20 PEAC note.

In some embodiments rather than return a partial value on a PEAC note e.g. 8.50 on a PEAC note with an original value of 10 the transaction provider may transfer new or different PEAC notes to the transferor where the invoice amount is less than the value of the provisional PEAC note. For example the transaction provider may return one or more PEAC notes with different UCNIDs than the PEAC notes provisionally transferred.

After transaction provider verifies that the payment code is valid and that the provisional PEAC note is sufficient to cover the invoice amount the transaction provider informs the PoS system that the PEAC note was transferred. Upon receiving verification that the payment was received i.e. that the provisional PEAC note has been permanently transferred to the transferee the PoS system may generate a receipt for the transferor thereby completing the transaction.

In some embodiments the invoice for a provisional PEAC note may be revised within a pre determined time frame. For example the invoice for a provisional PEAC note may be revised within a period of 5 minutes after the transferee first submits to invoice to e.g. include a tip amount include for a discount correct a mistake or the like. Where the invoice amount is revised the transaction provider will complete the transfer with the revised amount and verify to the PoS system that the PEAC note has been transferred so that the PoS system may generate a receipt for the revised amount. In some embodiments if the revised invoice amount is greater than the value of the provisional PEAC note then the transfer will fail. In other embodiments if the invoice is greater than the value of the provisional PEAC note then the full value of the provisional PEAC note is transferred and the PoS system is informed that payment has been received only for the full value of the provisional PEAC note.

In some embodiments any revisions to the invoice must be approved by both the transferee and the transferor. For example the transferor may revise an invoice to include a tip amount and the transferee will then need to approve the revision. In another example the transferee may revise the invoice to correct a mistake and the transferor will then need to approve the revision. In some embodiments the transferor may revise the invoice upwards i.e. increase the invoice amount without approval of the transferee. In this way the transferor may add e.g. a tip amount without requiring additional action from the transferee. In some embodiments the transferee may revise the invoice downwards i.e. decrease the invoice amount without approval of the transferor. In this way the transferee may add e.g. a discount amount without requiring additional action from the transferor. In some embodiments the invoice may be unilaterally revised by the transferee either upwards or downwards. In such embodiments the transferor may enter a tip amount into the invoice give a discount or correct a mistake. In some embodiments if the invoice becomes greater than the value of the provisional PEAC note then the transfer will fail. In other embodiments if the invoice becomes greater than the value of the provisional PEAC note then the full value of the provisional PEAC note is transferred and the PoS system is informed that payment has been received only for the full value of the provisional PEAC note. In embodiments where the transferor unilaterally revises the invoice amount the transaction provider may inform the transferor of the revised amount.

In some embodiments the value of the provisional PEAC note may be transferred in piecemeal fashion. For example a customer may provisionally transfer a PEAC note with a value of 100 to a particular merchant. Each time the customer conducts a transaction with the merchant a portion of the value of the provisional PEAC note may be permanently transferred to the merchant. The portion permanently transferred for a particular transaction will be equal to the invoice submitted by the merchant for the transaction. The provisional PEAC note would persist until all the value has been permanently transferred to the merchant. In such embodiments the provisional PEAC note would function similar to a debit account with the merchant or a gift card redeemable at the merchant.

In some embodiments a provisional PEAC note may be used to make installment payments for a particular transaction. Here the transferee would only be able to access a portion of value of the provisional PEAC note until the final installment is paid.

In some embodiments the provisional transfer of a PEAC note may involve the provisional transfer of a conditional PEAC note. For example a gift card PEAC note may be provisionally transferred to a merchant. In such embodiments the transaction provider will ensure the conditions of the conditional PEAC note are met before completing the permanent transfer of the conditional PEAC note.

Referring to a first entity that owns a PEAC note may use the transaction provider to provisionally transfer the PEAC note to a storefront associated with the kiosk or point of sale device . The first entity may issue a request to the transaction provider to provisionally transfer the PEAC note via the network . The request may specify the transferee of the provisional PEAC note i.e. the storefront associated with the kiosk or point of sale device and in some embodiments may include a provisional transfer amount. In some embodiments the request also specifies transfer conditions to be applied to the PEAC note e.g. a time frame for completing the transfer . In response to the request the transaction provider may generate a payment transaction code for the provisional transfer and associate the payment code with the PEAC note . Alternatively or in addition the transaction provider may extend a data structure representing the PEAC note to include and or reference the payment code and any other transfer conditions.

The transaction provider may then provisionally transfer the PEAC note to the transferee i.e. the storefront associated with the kiosk or point of sale device and securely communicate the payment transaction code to the first entity . The first entity may then present the payment code to the kiosk or point of sale device as part of the checkout process.

The checkout process may further comprise the kiosk or point of sale device may send a message to the transaction provider via the network the message including the payment code received from the first entity and an invoice amount. The transaction provider will then verify that the payment code received from the kiosk or point of sale device matches the payment code securely communicated to the first entity and that the kiosk or point of sale device is associated with the storefront named in the request . The transaction provider may also verify that any other transfer conditions are met e.g. that a time frame for completing the transaction has not expired and that the invoice amount is not greater than the value of the PEAC note or a transfer amount specified in the request by the first entity . After validating the payment code and verifying that all transfer conditions are met the transaction provider sends payment verification to the kiosk or point of sale device and completes i.e. makes permanent the transfer of the PEAC note to the storefront associated with the kiosk or point of sale device .

Referring to the device typically comprises one or more modules for processing payments. These modules may comprise hardware and or software. For example the device may comprise a cash drawer for processing cash payments a credit card module for processing credit card payments and a debit card module for processing debit card payments. In some embodiments the device comprises a gift card module for processing gift card payments. Gift cards are a substitute for currency and are accepted as a form of payment at a particular storefront or business. As discussed above in reference to a gift card may be redeemable only at a particular business entity. For example a business entity Able Baker Charlie may be associated with a kiosk and may issue gift cards that may be used as payment at kiosk . In order for kiosk to process the gift card payment the kiosk must include a gift card module that processes the gift card through a gift card processing system. Generally it is less expensive to process gift card payments than to process credit card payments. As mentioned above in reference to conditional PEAC notes may be used to implement secure gift card type transactions.

In some embodiments a gift card module for a point of sale device may be configured to process gift card type transactions through transaction provider . In some embodiments a gift card module may comprise a sub module for processing gift card type transactions through transaction provider . In other embodiments a gift card module may comprise functionality for coordinating transactions through transaction provider with another module capable of performing transactions with transaction provider . In some embodiments a gift card module capable of performing transactions with transaction provider may comprise functionality for processing PEAC note transactions such as the purchase of a PEAC note using the gift card processing system. For example a first entity may purchase a PEAC note from a business entity associated with point of sale device . The business entity may receive currency such as cash or other value from the first entity and may process the PEAC note purchase using the gift card module in order to reduce transactional costs by using the less expensive gift card processing system.

In some embodiments the device comprises a loyalty card module for processing loyalty or rewards related transactions. Loyalty cards may be used as full or partial payment for a transaction. For example a customer may accumulate loyalty or rewards points for certain transactions conducted with a particular business entity and may then redeem the loyalty points as payment for a transaction with the particular business entity. Generally it is less expensive to process loyalty card payments than to process credit card payments. In some embodiments the loyalty points may be in the form of PEAC notes. In some embodiments the loyalty points may be used to purchase PEAC notes. In some embodiments the PEAC notes acquired with loyalty points may be conditional PEAC notes.

In some embodiments a loyalty card module for a point of sale device may be configured to process loyalty card type transactions through transaction provider . In some embodiments a loyalty card module may comprise a sub module for processing loyalty card type transactions through transaction provider . In other embodiments a loyalty card module may comprise functionality for coordinating transactions through transaction provider with another module capable of performing transactions with transaction provider . In some embodiments a loyalty card module capable of performing transactions with transaction provider may comprise functionality for processing PEAC note transactions such as the purchase of a PEAC note using the loyalty card processing system. For example a first entity may purchase a PEAC note from a business entity associated with point of sale device . The business entity may receive currency such as cash or other value from the first entity and may process the PEAC note purchase using the loyalty card module in order to reduce transactional costs by using the less expensive loyalty card processing system.

In some embodiments the transfer of a PEAC note may involve the receipt by the transaction provider of a load code that identifies a particular transferee. A load code uniquely identifies where to send the PEAC note and may be generated at the request of a potential transferee. In some embodiments the load code is subject to a timing constraint where the load code is valid for a pre determined time. For example the load code may expire 30 minutes after it is generated. The pre determined time may be set by the transaction provider or may be selected by the transferor. In some embodiments an expired load code will not be re issued for a time period sufficient to prevent a PEAC note from being unintentionally transferred to the wrong recipient. For example a transaction provider may have a large list of pre generated load codes that it issues upon request and the transaction provider may distribute the load codes in round robin fashion so that a particular load code will be re issued only after all other load codes have been issued. As another example a transaction provider may maintain a blacklist of load codes where a load code is placed on the blacklist after issue and is removed from the blacklist after a time period substantially greater than the limited lifetime of the load code.

After generating the load code the transaction provider will deliver the load code to the requester i.e. the potential transferee . In some embodiments the transaction provider sends the load code via secure delivery. For example the transaction provider may encrypt the load code or may send the load code only after authenticating the requester e.g. by verifying an authentication credential such as a login name and or password . After receiving the load code the requester presents the payment code to a potential transferor as part of the transaction e.g. during checkout . As mentioned the load code identifies a location e.g. an account to transfer a PEAC note.

In some embodiments the load code is a short code e.g. 4 8 characters long that may be easily entered manually by a person e.g. a cashier at a PoS system such as kiosk or point of sale device . In other embodiments the load code is a bar code or other machine readable optical code that may be scanned into a PoS system using a barcode reader or optical scanner. In other embodiments the load code is a long e.g. 16 128 characters alphanumeric sequence that may be transmitted to a PoS system using a short range wireless communication interface e.g. a near field communication NFC interface an infrared transmitter or a BLUETOOTH adapter . Electronic transmission reduces the possibility of error and also improves security. In some embodiments the load code comprises two parts a complex electronically readable code such as a barcode or wirelessly transmitted sequence and a simple manually entered code such as a 3 4 digit verification code . The two part load code prevents transfers to an unintended recipient while remaining user friendly.

After receiving the load code the transferor may use a PoS system such as kiosk or point of sale device to submit the load code and an amount i.e. value of a PEAC note to the transaction provider. The transaction provider verifies that the load code is valid i.e. is associated with a transferee and has not expired and transfers a PEAC note with a value equal to the submitted amount. If the load code is not valid i.e. has expired or is unassigned the transaction provider may send an error message to the transferor i.e. the kiosk or point of sale device . In some embodiments the error message requests that the transferor resubmit the load code or identify the transferee by other means. If the transferee cannot be identified uniquely within a pre determined time frame the PEAC note transfer may fail.

After transaction provider transfers the PEAC note the transaction provider may inform the transferor i.e. the PoS system and or the transferee that the PEAC note was transferred. In some embodiments upon receiving verification that the PEAC note was successfully transferred the PoS system may generate a receipt for the transferee thereby completing the transaction.

Referring to a first entity may desire to purchase a PEAC note from a storefront associated with the point of sale device . The first entity may issue a request to the transaction provider via the network to request a load code that uniquely identifies the first entity . The request may identify the first user to the transaction provider and or may identify an account to be associated with the load code. In response to the request the transaction provider may generate a lode code and associate the load code with the first entity or with an account identified in the request . The transaction provider may then securely communicate the load code to the first entity . In some embodiments the load code has a per determined lifetime for which the load code will be valid. The lifetime may be selected by the transaction provider or may be specified by the first entity in the request .

The first entity may then request to purchase a PEAC note from the storefront associated with the point of sale device . In some embodiments the first entity may request a gift or loyalty card in the form of a PEAC note i.e. a conditional PEAC note . In other embodiments the first entity may request an unconditional PEAC note. The first entity presents a form of payment e.g. cash credit card debit card or the like to the point of sale device e.g. to a cashier at the point of sale device as well as the load code. In some embodiments the load code is entered manually e.g. via a keypad. In some embodiments the load code is read via a barcode reader or optical scanner. In some embodiments the load code is received via NFC reader BLUETOOTH adapter or other short range wireless communication interface. The point of sale device will process the payment and tender both the load code and the PEAC note value to the transaction provider . Where the purchased PEAC note is a gift or loyalty card the point of sale device may use a gift card or loyalty card module to send a message to the transaction provider requesting the transfer of the PEAC note to the transferee or account associated with the load code.

The transaction provider will then verify that the load code received from the point of sale device is valid i.e. unexpired and associated with a transferee or account . If the load code is valid the transaction provider transfers the PEAC note to the first entity and sends a transfer verification to the point of sale device . If the PEAC note is a conditional PEAC note i.e. the first entity has purchased a gift or loyalty card in the form of a PEAC note the transaction provider may associate the PEAC note with one or more usage conditions as described above in reference to .

The above description provides numerous specific details for a thorough understanding of the embodiments described herein. However those of skill in the art will recognize that one or more of the specific details may be omitted or other methods components or materials may be used. In some cases operations are not shown or described in detail.

Furthermore the described features operations or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. It will also be readily understood that the order of the steps or actions of the methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed may be changed as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus any order in the drawings or Detailed Description is for illustrative purposes only and is not meant to imply a required order unless specified to require an order.

Embodiments may include various steps which may be embodied in machine executable instructions to be executed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other electronic device . Alternatively the steps may be performed by hardware components that include specific logic for performing the steps or by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

Embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having stored instructions thereon that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes described herein. The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of medium machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device and or computer readable storage medium. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that perform one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices. In addition data being tied or rendered together in a database record may be resident in the same memory device or across several memory devices and may be linked together in fields of a record in a database across a network.

It will be understood by those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention.

