---

title: Cough and sneeze arrestor
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to hygienic devices to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria emanating from coughing or sneezing. In one embodiment, the hygienic device is a cough and sneeze arrestor in the form of a “coughing cup.” The coughing cup may incorporate one or more filters with a plurality of apertures of varying sizes and/or no apertures. In some embodiments, the filters may be embedded or infused with a microbicide such as an antibacterial or viricide. The filters may be pre-attached within the coughing cup at certain predetermined locations. The coughing cup may have one or more recesses to accommodate the nose and/or a chin of a person when using the coughing cup.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357805&OS=09357805&RS=09357805
owner: 
number: 09357805
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130626
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 576 196 filed Oct. 8 2009 entitled COUGH AND SNEEZE ARRESTOR the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Airborne viruses and bacteria can be easily spread through direct contact with contaminated items e.g. door handles table tops or railings or by coughing and sneezing. Infected persons who may spread airborne viruses and bacteria are often in public places by necessity or on purpose because for example they may not even be aware that they are contagious. In any case the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria can be rapid and swift.

One method that infected persons use to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria in public is to cover his her mouth with a hand or arm when coughing or sneezing. While this method may limit the spread of particulates emanating from the cough or sneeze it does not completely contain the cough or sneeze. Moreover the particulates will thereafter be on the person s hands and can be deposited on door handles rails or any other public item. The particulates can be transferred to an unknowing person and cause subsequent infection.

Another method that infected persons use to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria in public is to use a tissue when coughing or sneezing. This method also limits the spread of particulates emanating from the cough or sneeze however similar to the above it does not completely contain the cough or sneeze. A tissue is porous and can let airborne viruses bacteria and particulates pass through. Moreover the person using the tissue uses his or her hand to handle the tissue therefore transferring viruses bacteria and particulates to the person s hand which may be subsequently deposited on door handles rails or any other public item. Similar to the above the particulates can be transferred to an unknowing person and cause subsequent infection.

With the break out of new and virulent viruses such as the H1N1 flu virus or the so called swine flu virus the need for controlling the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria in public in eminent. Consequently a method or device which alleviates the problems associated with the methods and devices discussed above is needed.

A hygienic device to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria emanating from coughing or sneezing comprising i a cup having a rim ii a first filter suspended and attached within an interior of the cup near an opening of the cup the first filter having a plurality of apertures of a first size iii a second filter suspended and attached within the interior of the cup near a middle of the cup the second filter having a plurality of apertures of a second size and iv a third filter suspended and attached within the interior of the cup near a bottom of the cup is herein disclosed.

The hygienic device may further comprise v a first recess in the rim of the cup the first recess to accommodate a nose of a person and vi a second recess in the rim of the cup the second recess positioned 180 degrees relative to the first recess the second recess to accommodate a chin of the person. The diameter of each of the plurality of apertures of the first size may be greater than a diameter of each of the plurality of apertures of the second size. The plurality of apertures of the first size may be symmetrically spaced throughout the first filter and each of the plurality of apertures of the second size may be symmetrically spaced throughout the second filter. The plurality of apertures of the first size may be between 500 micrometers and 1500 micrometers and the plurality of apertures of the second size may be between 250 micrometers and 750 micrometers. Each of the first second and third filters may be embedded with a microbicide. The microbicide may be an antibacterial viricide or a combination thereof. The microbicide may be an antibacterial selected from the group consisting of benzalkonium chloride BAC cetyl trimethylammonium bromide CTMB cetylpyridinium chloride CPC benzethonium chloride BZT or any combination thereof. The cup may be comprised of a material the material one of paper polylactic acid or polystyrene foam. Each of the first second and third filters may be comprised of an absorbent material.

A hygienic device to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria emanating from coughing or sneezing comprising i a containment device the containment device approximately cylindrical the containment device closed on a first end and open on a second end the containment device having a sidewall extending from the first end to the second end ii a first filter suspended and attached within an interior of the sidewall of the device near the open second end the first filter having a plurality of apertures of a first size iii a second filter suspended and attached within the interior of the sidewall of the device near a middle of the device the second filter having a plurality of apertures of a second size and iv a third filter suspended and attached within the interior of the sidewall of the device near the closed first end is herein disclosed.

The hygienic device may further comprise v a first recess in the rim of the device the first recess to accommodate a nose of a person and vi a second recess in the rim of the device the second recess positioned 180 degrees relative to the first recess the second recess to accommodate a chin of the person. The diameter of each of the plurality of apertures of the first size may be greater than a diameter of each of the plurality of apertures of the second size. Each of the plurality of apertures of the first size may be symmetrically spaced throughout the first filter and each of the plurality of apertures of the second size may be symmetrically spaced throughout the second filter. The plurality of apertures of the first size may be between 500 micrometers and 1500 micrometers and the plurality of apertures of the second size may be between 250 micrometers and 1500 micrometers. Each of the first second and third filters may be embedded with a microbicide. The microbicide may be an antibacterial viricide or a combination thereof. The microbicide may be an antibacterial selected from the group consisting of benzalkonium chloride BAC cetyl trimethylammonium bromide CTMB cetylpyridinium chloride CPC benzethonium chloride BZT or any combination thereof. The device may be comprised of a material the material one of paper polylactic acid or polystyrene foam. Each of the first second and third filters may be comprised of an absorbent material.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to hygienic devices to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria emanating from coughing or sneezing. In one embodiment the hygienic device is a cough and sneeze arrestor in the form of a coughing cup. The coughing cup may incorporate one or more filters with a plurality of apertures of varying sizes and or no apertures. In some embodiments the filters may be embedded or infused with a microbicide such as an antibacterial or viricide. The filters may be pre attached within the coughing cup at certain predetermined locations. The coughing cup may have one or more recesses to accommodate the nose and or a chin of a person when using the coughing cup.

According to embodiments of the invention the plurality of apertures of the first filter may have a diameter between five hundred 500 micrometers m and fifteen hundred 1500 m. The function of the first filter is to trap large matter such as sputum and mucus when a person coughs or sneezes into the device . Hence the reference to high flow. The plurality of apertures of the second filter may have a diameter between 250 m and 750 m. The function of the second filter is to further absorb smaller particulate matter which was allowed to flow through the first filter in the interest of minimizing initial pressure in order to allow continued from through the device . Hence the reference to slow flow or absorbent flow. The third filter has no or substantially no apertures. The function of the third filter is to trap any airborne viruses and bacteria from escaping the device . Hence the reference to stop flow. 

According to embodiments of the invention each filter and may be embedded or infused with a microbicide such as an antibacterial or a viricide. Examples of suitable microbicides include but are not limited to benzalkonium chloride BAC cetyl trimethylammonium bromide CTMB cetylpyridinium chloride CPC benzethonium chloride BZT or any combination thereof. The microbicide may be incorporated into the filters and by methods known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

According to embodiments of the invention the device may vary in length from the uppermost point of the rim to the bottom . In some embodiments the length of the device may be between about three 3 inches and about six 6 inches. In this respect the device may accommodate a child or an adult. In one embodiment the length of the device is about five 5 inches. Accordingly the first filter may be approximately two 2 inches from the uppermost point of the rim the second filter may be approximately three 3 inches from the uppermost point of the rim and the third filter may be approximately four and one half 4 inches from the uppermost point of the rim . Each filter and may be pre attached to an inner surface of the device by an adhesive or any other suitable attaching substance.

In use a person may use the device as described previously by placing the device next to the person s mouth and coughing into the device see . The nose bridge and chin bridge allows for a comfortable fit about the person s mouth and substantially or completely eliminates infectious material from escaping therefrom. Alternatively the device may be placed on the person s nose.

Advantageously a hygienic device according to embodiments of the invention can be used in any public or private location to control the spread of airborne viruses and bacteria emanating from coughing or sneezing. The device is disposable and eliminates contact of a person s hand or arm when the person coughs or sneezes thereby preventing transfer of infectious material to door handles rails desks or any other surface with which multiple persons may come into contact thereby likely spreading the infectious material to others . Moreover the device may be embedded with a microbicide which kills bacteria and or viruses. Thus if the device is accidently dropped e.g. on a desktop the chance of transfer of infectious material is substantially reduced relative to e.g. a tissue .

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention is not to be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

