---

title: Creating a single social graph for a user
abstract: The present invention is directed to methods and systems for providing personal connection alerts. The user desires to have a personal connection with a target person. An indicator for a target is provided by the user. The indicator is often the name of the target, but can also be a picture of the target, or other information. A record for the target is created based on the received indicator. The target record is stored. A variety of additional information regarding the target may be obtained from external or internal sources and also stored in the target record. Then the target record is periodically compared with the user's social sphere of influence, which comprises the user's primary and secondary connections. The comparison includes at least comparing the target with the user's secondary connections. When the target record matches at least one of the user's secondary connections, an alert is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719290&OS=08719290&RS=08719290
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 08719290
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131106
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 633 819 filed Oct. 2 2012 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein. The applicant s hereby rescind any disclaimer of claim scope in the parent application or the prosecution history thereof and advise the USPTO that the claims in this application may be broader than any claim in the parent application.

The disclosed embodiments relate generally to systems and methods for providing a personal connection alert to a user when a person that the user desires to meet or connect with is now connected to the user such as when the desired person is now friends with a friend of the user.

Salespeople spend time developing connections with leads such as potential buyers of their product or service. Relationships with leads are difficult to cultivate when they begin as cold calls i.e. when the salesperson has no connection to the lead. However when a lead is introduced to the salesperson through a shared connection such as a common friend the likelihood of closing a deal increases significantly. Similar benefits of connecting to a person through a shared connection exist in social education and governmental arenas as well.

Increasingly users are utilizing electronic forms of communication and on line social networks to communicate with and connect to friends colleagues business partners potential employees and sales prospects. These forms of communication and connection often include publicly and privately available databases which are accessible to software applications. For example they may be available via public application programming interfaces APIs .

However with the explosive growth of such communication and networks people receive more and more unsolicited communication from people they do not know. As such it is often difficult to connect with a target person without an introduction or a shared connection.

It would be advantageous to provide systems and methods for leveraging various databases such as public APIs to monitor a user s connections over various forms of electronic communication and social networking combine the information make computations and comparisons regarding the information and notify the user about valuable new personal connections associated therewith.

The present invention overcomes the limitations and disadvantages described above by providing methods systems and computer readable storage mediums for providing personal connection alerts.

In some embodiments a system or service periodically searches a user s social sphere of influence to find people such as the user s primary connections that can introduce the user to a target person i.e. a person that the user would like to meet.

In some embodiments a system or service provides co workers with a company level view of contacts and provides an automatic discovery of relevant connections to targets such as for example business leads.

The following presents a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some of the aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some of the concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Some embodiments provide a computer implemented method in which an indicator for a target associated with a user is received. A record for the target is created based on the received indicator. A target record is compared at least with secondary connections of the user. The comparison is performed periodically. Then when the target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user an alert is provided.

Some embodiments also include a computer implemented method in which a plurality of the user s contacts is obtained from an external source. Primary connections are created from the contacts. A primary connection includes a link such as a social connection between the user and a contact. For each primary connection a plurality of the primary connection s contacts is obtained from an external source and a plurality of secondary connections is obtained. A secondary connection includes a link such as a social connection between the primary connection and a primary connection s contact. The plurality of primary connections is then combined with the plurality of secondary connections.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which one or more indicators for targets associated with a user are received. A PeopleQueue list with records for targets is created based on the received indicators. A target record of the PeopleQueue list is compared with records in the user s social sphere of influence. The comparison is performed periodically. Then when one or more alert conditions are met an alert is provided. The alert conditions include at least a first match condition where at least the respective target record of the PeopleQueue list matches at least one record in the user s social sphere of influence.

Another aspect of the invention involves a computer implemented method in which one or more indicators for targets are received from a user. Information regarding one or more primary connections of the user are obtained and provided to a remote system. Then one or more secondary connections of the user are received from the remote system. A target record is compared with the primary and or secondary connections of the user. The comparison is performed periodically. Then when the target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user an alert is provided.

Some embodiments provide an introduction alert system comprising one or more central processing units CPU s for executing programs and also includes memory sorting the programs to be executed by the CPUs. The programs include instructions to perform any of the embodiments of the aforementioned methods.

Yet other embodiments provide a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computer. The programs include instructions to perform any of the embodiments of the aforementioned methods.

These methods systems and GUIs described herein provide alerts to a user of personal connection s with a target and in some embodiments provide additional information target or connections including connection strength metric s and mechanism s for connecting with the target.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present embodiments. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and networks have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without changing the meaning of the description so long as all occurrences of the first element are renamed consistently and all occurrences of the second element are renamed consistently. The first element and the second element are both elements but they are not the same element.

The terminology used in the description of the embodiments herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the description of the embodiments and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising as well as the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

In some embodiments the introduction alert system includes an introduction alert IntroAlert service system which provides alerts to one or more clients when one or more alert conditions are met. For example in some embodiments the introduction alert is provided when a person the user desires to meet the target first appears in the user s social sphere of influence. The provision of these alerts will be explained in more detail in throughout this application.

The following is a high level overview of the introduction alert system which will be explained in more detail with respect to . The introduction alert system includes an introduction alert service which is a system which provides alerts to one or more clients when one or more alert conditions are met. The introduction alert service system is coupled to or in communication with a PeopleQueue System . The PeopleQueue system is configured to receive names or other indicators of targets that a user wishes to meet and store them sometimes along with other information about in the PeopleQueue database as a PeopleQueue record associated with the user. The other information associated with the PeopleQueue record may for example be obtained from other systems and other databases which are optionally coupled to or in communication with the introduction alert service system . In some embodiments the other systems and other databases may include email systems social networking systems and other websites and services which are optionally used to obtain connection information activity information interests and or insights about the user the target or primary and secondary connections to the user. The introduction alert service system is coupled to or communicates with a Social Sphere of Influence SSOI Service System . The user s social sphere of influence is made up of the user s primary and secondary connections and is stored in the Social Sphere of Influence SSOI Database . The Social Sphere of Influence SSOI Service System is coupled to or communicates with both the Social Sphere of Influence SSOI Database and the User Database . In some embodiments the Social Sphere of Influence Service System periodically updates a social sphere of influence for one or more users by checking at least the User Database and optionally Other Database s recalculating the user s social sphere of influence and then storing the updates in the Social Sphere of Influence database as will be explained in more detail in . The introduction alert service system is coupled to or communicates with an introduction alerts IntroAlerts Database . The introduction alerts database stores information regarding the introduction alerts that have been provided to the user such as for example the name of the target when the alert was provide and information regarding the strength of the connection between the user and the target. As such in some embodiments the introduction alert service system checks the introduction alerts database to determine if an introduction alert about the target has been previously sent and if a new introduction alert should be provided because for example the connection strength to the target has increased. 

In some embodiments the introduction alert system includes any or all of the introduction alert service system PeopleQueue System PeopleQueue Database Social Sphere of Influence Service System Social Sphere of Influence Database User Database optional Other Systems optional Other Database s and the Introduction Alerts Database are components of a single server system comprising one or more processing units CPU s one or more network or other communications interfaces memory and one or more communication buses for interconnecting these components to other conventional electronic components and may be programmed with processor executable instructions to facilitate communication via network and perform various aspects of the below describe embodiments. In other embodiments one or more of the above mentioned components are separate systems having their own one or more processing units CPU s one or more network or other communications interfaces memory and one or more communication buses for interconnecting these components to other conventional electronic components and may be programmed with processor executable instructions to facilitate communication via network and perform various aspects of the below describe embodiments. For example A and B provide some exemplary embodiments of some of the components of the distributed computer system illustrated in .

In some embodiments memory used by any of the clients or any of the components of the introduction alert system includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . In some embodiments memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium as explained in more detail in A and B. 

Furthermore one skilled in the art will appreciate that the network is not limited to a particular type of network. For example the network may feature one or more wide area networks WANs such as the Internet. The network may also feature one or more local area networks LANs having one or more of the well known LAN topologies and the use of a variety of different protocols on these topologies such as Ethernet TCP IP Frame Relay Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed. Moreover the network may feature a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN featuring land line and cellular telephone terminals or else a network featuring a combination of any or all of the above. The clients may be coupled to network via for example twisted pair wires coaxial cable fiber optics electromagnetic waves or other media.

Each of the above identified elements is typically stored in one or more of the previously mentioned memory devices and corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above identified modules or programs i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments memory stores a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore memory may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Although shows an introduction alert system is intended more as functional description of various features present in a set of servers than as a structural schematic of the embodiments described herein. In practice and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art items shown separately could be combined and some items could be separated. For example some items shown separately in could be implemented on single servers and single items could be implemented by one or more servers. Furthermore some of the components could be implemented and stored on a client system is described with respect to . The actual number of servers used to implement an introduction alert system and how features are allocated among them will vary from one implementation to another and typically depend in part on the amount of data traffic that the system must handle during peak usage periods as well as during average usage periods.

Each of the above identified elements of is typically stored in on the client and corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The above identified modules or programs i.e. sets of instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules and thus various subsets of these modules may be combined or otherwise re arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments memory stores a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore memory may store additional modules and data structures not described above.

Although show embodiments of a thin and thick client are intended more as functional description of various features present in a set of servers than as a structural schematic of the embodiments described herein. In practice and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art items shown separately could be combined and some items could be separated. For example some items shown separately in could be combined. Furthermore some of the components shown in could be implemented and stored on a client system shown in . How the features are allocated among A and B will vary from one implementation to another.

In the client obtains information regarding the user s primary connections . The user s primary connections are contacts or friends of the user. In some embodiments connections and contacts can be verified with an external source or program separate from the introduction alerts system. For example a person with which the user has two way communications via email IM phone social media or other communications is a primary connection. Furthermore a person deemed a friend or contact via a social networking service is also a primary connection. In some embodiments members of a shared group are also primary connections as shown in . Unidirectional or follow relationships alone are not primary connections. In some embodiments the information regarding the primary connections is obtained for email connections . As such in some embodiments the primary connections are obtained by the client from one or more email services. In other embodiments and the client provides the server access credentials to their email service s and the server obtains the contacts from the email service s by sending a request for the contacts to the email service and receiving a response from the email service including the contact information. In some embodiments the information regarding the primary connections is obtained for social networking connections . As such in some embodiments the primary connections are obtained by the client from one or more social networking services. In other embodiments and the client provides the server access with credentials to their social network and the server obtains the primary connections from the various social networks by similarly requesting and receiving the connection information from the social networking service. For exemplary purposes email and social networking systems are sources for obtaining information regarding primary connections which are illustrated herein but it is noted that many other sources such as phone systems IM systems location based networking systems etc also used in some embodiments to obtain information regarding the user s primary connections . The connection information is then sent to the introduction alerts server system . .

The introduction alerts server system receives the connection information either as connections themselves or as information such as access credentials from which the connections are then obtained by the introduction alerts server system or a combination of the two. Once all the primary connections are obtained using the user s primary connections the introduction alerts server system then builds the user s social sphere of influence . The user s social sphere of influence includes the user s primary and secondary connections. The details of building a social sphere of influence are described in more detail with respect to .

The client also receives one or more target indicators . A target is person the user desires to meet. A target indicator can be one or more of a name an image a title a company or organization association a skill e.g. UX expert and interest etc. In some embodiments the target s name is the preferred indicator. In some embodiments the user to manually inputs an indicator for a target . For example the user types the target s name or highlights a name within a webpage and chooses to have the name become a target indicator. In some embodiments the user provides a captured image or a selected portion thereof e.g. a scanned image a photograph from the user s camera or an image in a webpage or video selected by the user. In some embodiments when an image is provided by the user it undergoes further processing e.g. OCR and or image recognition to identify names or other information used as a target indicator as described with respect to . In some embodiments the user selects a suggested target . For example in some embodiments a name identification services such as a browser plug in is utilized to identify names of people in textual content currently being viewed by the user and provide those names with an option to for example select a button to add this person to my PeopleQueue and so the user can add names by selecting the suggested target names. In other embodiments a JavaScript snippet is included in a website which creates a list of names of people includes on a page such that the user click on a name in the list to be a target indicator. In some embodiments web and mobile developers use an API provided to them by the introduction alert service to enable users to add a target indicator from an external website or mobile application. In yet other embodiments the introduction alert system e.g. the Social Sphere of Influence Service System provides suggested target indicators based on information gathered about the user. For example a people the user follows on another system is suggested as a target or a person sharing characteristics with other people the user already has on his PeopleQueue list is suggested e.g. a person employed at the same company and having the same title as someone already on the user s PeopleQueue list or a person sharing characteristics with the user e.g. people having worked a the same employer or gone to the same school as the user or contacts from an external customer relationship management system. Once the target indicators are received or obtained they are sent to the introduction alerts server system .

The introduction alerts server system receives the target indicators . It then creates and stores records for the targets a based on the indicators . In some embodiments the records are stored in a PeopleQueue list as illustrated in . The PeopleQueue list includes records for targets based at least on the indicators. Each PeopleQueue Target record comprises at least the received indicator. In many embodiments the PeopleQueue Target record includes an identification number for the target as well as a variety of additional information about the target as shown in . In some embodiments the PeopleQueue system obtains the additional information about the target from by querying other systems and other databases such as email systems social networking systems and other websites and services for publicly available information which are optionally used to obtain connection information activity information interests and or insights about the target. In some embodiments target information is also obtained from within the introduction alerts system when the target is also a user or primary connection of a user of the introduction alerts system e.g. the social sphere of influence service system or its associated databases may contain information about the target .

The introduction alert system specifically the introduction alert service system compares a respective target record of the PeopleQueue list with a plurality of records in the user s social sphere of influence . In some embodiments it determines if a target record matches one of the secondary connections of the user. In some embodiments it determines if the target record matches a primary connection of the user. In yet other embodiments it determines if the target record matches a primary or a secondary connection of the user.

When one or more alert conditions are met the introduction alert system specifically the introduction alert service system provides an alert . The alert is an introduction alert i.e. it provides an alert that a personal connection exists between the user and the target. In some embodiments an alert is provided when a target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user. In other embodiments an alert is provided when a first match condition is met. In some embodiments the first match condition is that a target record of the PeopleQueue list matches at least one record in the user s social sphere of influence primary or secondary connections . In some embodiments the alert is provided to the client system s introduction alert module for audio alert physical alert and or visual display of the alert. In other embodiments the alert is provided to an external system such as a push notification to a mobile device an IM an email or even an automated voicemail.

In some embodiments a new person alert is provided . The new person alert is provided when an alert for the respective target record was not previously provided as verified by checking the introduction alerts database . In some embodiments the alert is provided when a new person match condition is met. In some embodiments the new person match condition is that the respective target record was not previously provided.

In some embodiments a connection alert is provided . The new connection alert is provided when an introduction alert for the target was previously provided but now the target record matches an additional secondary connection as verified by checking the introduction alerts database . In other words a different user s primary connection has a personal connection to the target than was provided in the previous alert. In some embodiments the alert is provided when a new connection match condition is met. In some embodiments the new connection match condition is that the target record of the PeopleQueue list matches at least an additional record in the user s social sphere of influence e.g. the target is now a primary connection or the target is now personally connected to another primary connection of the user. In some embodiments the new connection match also requires a stronger match than the match of any previously provided match. In other words the new connection match is not provided when the connection to the target in the new connection is weaker than the connection in a previously provided alert.

In some embodiments a stronger connection alert is provided . The stronger connection alert is provided when the target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user and meets a connection strength threshold as verified by checking one or more of the introduction alerts database the user database and the PeopleQueue database . In some embodiments the alert is provided when a strength condition is met. In some embodiments the strength condition is that the match meets a connection strength threshold. In some embodiments the connection strength is a measure of the number of shared primary connections determined for example by comparing social spheres of influence . In some embodiments the connection strength includes an analysis one or more of shared educational background shared professional background number of shared networks e.g. connected to or communicating with each other via email IM social networking systems phone etc . In some embodiments the connection strength also includes the primary connection s feedback score which measures how effective the primary connection is at making introductions. In some embodiments the connection strength threshold is user defined. In some implementations the user has the option of defining a connection strength threshold for an individual target. For example the user may define the connection strength to be a particular total metric or the user may define attributes that are more or most important in calculating connection strength e.g. the user may want geographic proximity or educational background to play more important roles for a certain target. 

When the alert was provided to the client system s introduction alert module the client displays plays or otherwise provides the alert . In some embodiments the alert is provided periodically until it is acknowledged by the user. For example the alert is provided as a pop up message until the user chooses to snooze dismiss or save the alert.

In the client obtains information regarding the user s primary connections . In some embodiments the information regarding the primary connections is obtained for email connections . Furthermore in some embodiments the information regarding the primary connections is obtained for social networking connections . Elements are explained in more detail with respect to . It is noted that many other sources such as phone systems IM systems location based networking systems etc also used in some embodiments to obtain information regarding the user s primary connections . The connection information is then sent to the introduction alerts server system . .

The introduction alerts server system receives the connection information either as connections themselves or as information such as access credentials form which the connections are then obtained or a combination thereof. Using the user s primary connections the introduction alerts server system obtains secondary connections for the user and sends them to the client . It is noted that the client in the process described in is a thick client as illustrated in . The client receives the secondary connections . In some embodiments the secondary connections are received in the form of immediate influence graphs for the user s primary connections or the user s communities. The client then uses the primary and secondary connections to build the user s social sphere of influence . The details of building a social sphere of influence are described in more detail with respect to .

The client specifically the PeopleQueue input module receives one or more target indicators . In some embodiments the user to manually inputs an indicator for a target while in other embodiments the user selects a suggested target as explained in more detail with respect to .

The PeopleQueue application then creates records for the targets a based on the indicators . It also stores them in the local PeopleQueue database . In some embodiments the records are stored in a PeopleQueue list as illustrated in . The PeopleQueue list includes records for targets based at least on the indicators. Each PeopleQueue record comprises at least the received indicator. In many embodiments the PeopleQueue record includes an identification number for the target as well as a variety of additional information about the target as shown in . In some embodiments the PeopleQueue application queries the PeopleQueue systems on the server to obtain additional information about the target as explained in detail with respect to .

The client specifically the introduction alert application compares a respective target record of the PeopleQueue list with a plurality of records in the user s social sphere of influence . In some embodiments it determines if a target record matches one of the secondary connections of the user. In some embodiments it determines if the target record matches a primary connection of the user. In yet other embodiments it determines if the target record matches a primary or a secondary connection of the user.

When one or more alert conditions are met the introduction alert system specifically the introduction alert service system provides an alert . The alert is an introduction alert i.e. it provides an alert that a personal connection exists between the user and the target. In some embodiments an alert is provided when a target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user. In other embodiments an alert is provided when a first match condition is met. In some embodiments the first match condition is that a target record of the PeopleQueue list matches at least one record in the user s social sphere of influence primary or secondary connections . The alert can be a new person alert a new connection alert or a stronger connection alert as explained in detail with respect to . In some embodiments the alert is provided to the client system s introduction alert module for audio alert physical alert and or visual display of the alert. In other embodiments the alert is provided to an external system such as a push notification to a mobile device an IM an email or even an automated voicemail.

When the alert was provided to the client system s introduction alert module the client displays plays or otherwise provides the alert . In some embodiments the alert is provided periodically until it is acknowledged by the user. For example the alert is provided as a pop up message until the user chooses to snooze dismiss or save the alert.

A social sphere of influence is created . The user s social sphere of influence includes the user s primary and secondary connections. The details of building a social sphere of influence are described in more detail with respect to . The social sphere of influence is periodically updated . In other words the user s primary and secondary connections are updated. For example in some embodiments the social sphere of influence is updated daily. In other embodiments the social sphere of influence is updated in response to user activity. For example in some implementations it is updated when a new indicator for a target is received. In some embodiments the user provides a specified period for updating the social sphere of influence and this user specified update period is stored in the user database or . Then the social sphere of influence is periodically updated in accordance with the user specified period.

Either before or after the social sphere of influence is created or updated one or more target indicators are obtained . A target is person the user desires to meet. A target indicator can be one or more of a name an image a title a company or organization association a skill e.g. UX expert and interest etc. In some embodiments target indicators are manually added by the user are selected from provided suggestions or are selected from a media source . Obtaining the target indicators includes the client receiving target indicators from the user and in some embodiments providing the target indicators to the introduction alerts sever system either as a push or as a pull data transfer. In other words in some implementations the introduction alerts server system requests the target indicators and the client system then provides them. While in other embodiments the client system initiates the process of providing the target indicators to the introduction alerts server system. More details regarding the receipt of target indicators is described with respect to .

Based on the target indicators record s for the target s are then created . The records sometimes called target records are stored either on a local PeopleQueue database or on server PeopleQueue database along with similar target records for other users depending on the embodiment. In some embodiments the target records for the user are stored in a PeopleQueue list as illustrated in . A PeopleQueue list has a plurality of target records for the user . Each target record comprises at least the received indicator. In some embodiments a target record includes the received target indicator a timestamp and an identification number for the target. In some embodiments additional information and metadata regarding the target is obtained from an external source and the additional information is recorded in the target record . This additional information for the target record is obtained from a variety of sources as discussed with respect to . An exemplary target record is as shown in .

Optionally a user specified preference is obtained . Obtaining the user specified preferences includes the client receiving the preferences from the user and in some embodiments providing the user specified to the introduction alerts sever system either as a push or as a pull data transfer. In other words in some implementations the introduction alerts server system requests the user specified preferences and the client system then provides them. While in other embodiments the client system initiates the process of providing the user specified preferences to the introduction alerts server system. In some embodiments the user specified preference includes an alert preference. In some embodiments the user specifies preferences for all targets which in other embodiments the user specified preference is for an individual target. In embodiments where the specified preference is for an individual target the specification information is stored in the PeopleQueue target record as shown in . In some embodiments the user specifies preferences for all targets the specification information is stored in the PeopleQueue list or in the PeopleQueue target records of the PeopleQueue database or or in the user database or .

Optionally the user specifies alert preferences including one or more of a medium type a notification type and information about the target to be provided . In some embodiments the user specifies a notification type for one or more alerts. Notification types include but are not limited to push notification to a mobile device an IM an email an automated voicemail or a notification to the client system s introduction alert module. In some embodiments the user specifies a medium type for one or more alerts. Medium types include but are not limited to audio alerts physical alert e.g. a vibration and or visual display of the alert.

In some embodiments the user specifies what information about the target is to be provided in the alert if available . User specified information about the target includes but are not limited to the target s name title skills specialties company school s groups industry association location honors and interests. In some embodiments when a user has provided a non name target indicator information regarding that category will be automatically included as part of the information provided in the alert. For example when a skill is provided for the target indicator the target s skills will be provided in the alert. This can be helpful for example even if the user wants to use the introduction alerts service to tell him who is in his social sphere of influence having a particular skill even when the user wants to know for example who in his company is skilled in a particular area or knowledgeable on a particular topic. In some embodiments user specified information about the target also includes but is not limited to names of shared primary connection s a connection strength indication for a shared primary connection common threads with the primary connection and a link to an external profile such as a public profile on a social networking website.

In some embodiments the user specified preferences include a connection strength preference threshold. For example in some embodiments the user specifies that an alert should not be sent until the connection strength is above a threshold e.g. 50 strength . In some embodiments the user specifies a strength preference specifically for strength connection alert condition. In some embodiments the strength preference is not used when matching for a new connection match condition or a new person match condition. In other embodiments the strength preference is used when matching any alert condition.

In some embodiments the user specified preferences include a specified period for periodically comparing target record s with the user s social sphere of influence. In some embodiments the user specifies preferences for all targets while in other embodiments the user specified period is for an individual target. In some embodiments the specified period is fixed such as once an hour twice a day once a day once a week once every two weeks or once a month. In other embodiments the specified period is tied to a triggering condition such every time the social sphere of influence is updated every time a new primary connection is added every time a new target indicator is provided every time the user joins a new organization or every time the user logs into a program associated with the introduction alert system.

A respective target record of the PeopleQueue list is then compared with a plurality of records in the user s social sphere of influence . The comparison is performed either by the social sphere of influence system or the social sphere of influence application as described with respect to . In some embodiments the respective target recorded is compared with at least the user s secondary connections. In some embodiments the respective target record is compared with the primary connections of the user. For example when a user has specified a title or geographic location but not a name for the target indicator the target may exist in the user s primary connections without the user being aware of it. In yet other embodiments the respective target record is compared to both primary and a secondary connections of the user. The comparison is performed in order to determine if one or more alert conditions are met . The alert conditions include but are not limited to a first match condition matching primary and or secondary connections a new connection match condition a new person match condition and strength condition. The process of matching various alert conditions is explained in more detail with respect to .

In some embodiments the comparison is performed periodically . In some embodiments the periodic comparison is performed for all records in the user s PeopleQueue list while in other embodiments the comparison period is distinct of a respective target record. The periodic comparison is performed at least once in each comparison period. In some embodiments the comparison period is fixed such as once an hour twice a day once a day once a week once every two weeks or once a month. In other embodiments the comparison period is tied to a triggering condition such every time the social sphere of influence is updated every time a new primary connection is added every time a new target indicator is provided every time the user joins a new organization or every time the user logs into a program associated with the introduction alert system. In some embodiments the comparison is performed for one or more or all of the target records in accordance with one or more user specified comparison periods either fixed or tied to a triggering condition as explained with respect to the user s specified preference s .

An alert is provided . In some embodiments an alert is provided when a target record matches at least one of the secondary connections of the user. In some embodiments the alert is provided when one or more alert conditions are met. The alert conditions include but are not limited to a first match condition matching primary and or secondary connections a new connection match condition a new person match condition and strength condition. The process of matching various alert conditions is explained in more detail with respect to . In some embodiments the alert includes information regarding whether it is a new person match a new connection match or a stronger connection match. In some embodiments the alert is configured to be presented as an audio alert physical alert and or visual display of the alert. In other embodiments the alert is provided to an external system such as a push notification to a mobile device an IM an email or even an automated voicemail.

In some embodiments the alert provides information about the target . The information about the target includes but is not limited to the target s name title skills specialties company school s groups industry association location honors and interests. In some embodiments information regarding company school s groups industry association or interests are provided initially only when they are shared with the user. In some embodiments some of this information is provided upon request by the user e.g. if the user selects a link associated with the target the user will be provided with more information. In some embodiments information provided about the target also includes but is not limited to names of shared primary connection s a connection strength indication for a shared primary connection and common threads with the primary connection. In some embodiments the above mentioned information regarding the target such as name title etc. is also provided or provided in response to a user request e.g. via link selection for the shared primary connection s as well as for the target. In some embodiments the information about the target also includes a link to an external profile such as a public profile on a social networking website.

In some embodiments the alert also provides a connection strength metric . The connection strength metric is a measure of the quality of a connection between two people. In some embodiments the connection strength metric is for the connection between a user and the target. In other embodiments the connection strength metric is for the connection between a user s primary connection and the target. The connection strength metric can be visually presented in a variety of ways including but not limited to a percentage a score and or a filled bar indicating percentage or score. In other embodiments the connection strength metric is presented as a number of stars out of a total e.g. 4 out of 5 a thumbs indication two thumbs up or a thumbs down or similar quality icons. In some embodiments the connection strength metric is a color indication e.g. stronger connections are indicated in green and average connections are indicated in yellow and weak connections are indicated in red. In some embodiments color indications are included in addition to the above mentioned connection strength presentations of percentage score bar stars or thumbs. Examples of alerts and their associated information and strength metrics are illustrated in .

A determination is made as to whether a target is in the user s social sphere of influence . If the target is not in the user s social sphere of influence No then no introduction alert is provided for that target . The process then repeats for another target in the user s PeopleQueue list. If the target is in the user s social sphere of influence Yes then the process continues. A determination is made as to whether the target is in the introduction alerts database or in other words the introduction alerts database is checked to see if an alert was previously provided regarding the target . If the target is not in the introduction alerts database No then an introduction alert for a new person match is provided . If the target is in the introduction alerts database Yes then the match is not a new person match. As such a determination is made as to whether the connection to the target is new . In other words a comparison is performed between the previous connection and the current connection. If both connections include the same people e.g. the previous connection and the current connection are both between primary connection John Smith then the connection is not new. It is noted that if more than one connection existed in the introduction alerts database the comparison is performed for each previous connection. When the connection is new Yes for example if the previous connection was with John Smith but the new connection is directly to the user then an introduction alert is for a new connection match is provided . As explained above in some embodiments any new connection match is provided while in other embodiments only new connections which are stronger than the original connection are provided. If it is determined that the connection to the target is not new No then the process continues. A determination is made as to whether the connection strength of the connection has increased . If the connection strength as not increased No then no introduction alert is provided for the target . In some embodiments if the connection strength has increased then an introduction alert is for a strengthened connection match is provided . In some embodiments the strengthened connection match is provided only when the connection strength meets a connection strength threshold. In some embodiments the connection strength threshold is user specified while in other embodiments it is set by the system. Examples of connection strength thresholds are set thresholds such as a particular score or percentage e.g. 50 or a comparative threshold such as an increase of connection strength compared to the previous connection e.g. an increase of at least 10 .

Contacts are converted into influence relationships . Influence relationships have bidirectional communication or connections. For example a person with which the user has two way communications via email IM phone social media or other communications has an influence relationship with the user. Furthermore a person deemed a friend or contact via a social networking service. Unidirectional or follow relationships alone are ignored .

An immediate influence graph is then created from the influence relationships . An example of an immediate influence graph for a user is illustrated in . Duplicate nodes of the immediate influence graph are removed . In some embodiments duplicate nodes are removed by comparing personal details such as name location company name work history education history e mail addresses phone numbers etc. For example if a user may communicate with a friend via both email and text messages but one node on the immediate influence graph should represent that friend. As such the user s immediate influence graph contains primary connections which are unique people nodes associated with the user s influence relationships .

Then similar processes are performed in order to create an immediate influence graphs for a plurality of the user s primary connections . For a respective primary connection s contacts are obtained from an external source in a manner similar to that described with respect to . The primary connection s contacts are converted in to influence relationships in a manner similar to that described with respect to . Then the primary connection s immediate influence graph is created from the influence relationships in a manner similar to that described with respect to including the removal of duplicate nodes. The same process is performed for all or many of the user s primary connections.

The immediate influence graphs for the user s primary connections are then combined with the user s own immediate influence graph to create the user s social sphere of influence . An example of a user s social sphere of influence is illustrated in . The user s social sphere of influence includes primary connections and secondary connections . The secondary connections were obtained as described above from the contacts of various primary connection s contacts. A respective secondary connection includes a link between the respective primary connection and a respective contact of the plurality of primary connection s contacts.

Optionally immediate influence graphs are also produced for members of the user s communities . Furthermore optionally immediate influence graphs for the members of the user s communities are then combined with the user s own immediate influence graph or the user s current social sphere of influence to create or update the user s social sphere of influence .

The immediate influence graphs of the community members and or the user s primary connections may contain duplicate nodes in other words there may be numerous duplicate secondary connections. As such information regarding the user s duplicate secondary connections is correlated and duplicate nodes are removed . It is also noted that if a connection appears both as a user s primary connection and as a user s secondary connection the secondary connection is removed.

When available personal information regarding the target is also included in the target record. When available the target s name or names pseudonyms and alternate name spellings are included. In some embodiments the target s current and or past company name s are included in the target record. Similarly the target s current and or past title s are also optionally included in the target record. Additional information is also stored in the target record when available additional information includes but is not limited to the target s current or past skills industry location marital status interests associations honors and a textual summary or CV associated with the target.

The target record optionally includes information regarding the introduction alerts comparison process . For example it may include a current status such as not in the user s social sphere of influence at the time of the last comparison. If the user was in the social sphere of influence the information would be for example that a new person alert provided on a particular date and time e.g. Jun. 8 2012 8 15 am and a new connection alert provided on a later date and time e.g. Sep. 1 2012 1 30 pm . In some embodiments the target record also includes a last checked status .

The target record optionally includes system or user specified alert preferences . In some embodiments the target record includes a specified notify medium . It may also include frequency information which includes the frequency with which an alert should be presented until the user acknowledges the alert and may also include a specification regarding how often the target record should be compared to the user s social sphere of influence. In some embodiments a connection strength threshold is also provided. The connection strength threshold specifies either a set threshold such as a particular score or percentage e.g. 50 or a comparative threshold such as an increase of connection strength compared to the previous connection e.g. an increase of at least 10 . In most embodiments the connection strength threshold is used at least when providing a stronger connection alert. The connection strength threshold optionally specifies if the threshold should be used before providing a new person alert or a new connection alert and is used what that threshold should be in each instance.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

