---

title: Providing local access to managed content
abstract: A method for providing local access to managed content is disclosed. The method comprises receiving from a remote host a request to perform an operation with respect to content associated with a set of managed content and obtaining information required to respond to the request. The method further comprises providing in response to the request a content locator usable to perform the requested operation through direct communication with a local content system associated with the remote host.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304966&OS=09304966&RS=09304966
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09304966
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130424
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 229 317 entitled PROVIDING LOCAL ACCESS TO MANAGED CONTENT filed Sep. 15 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Content management systems provide the capability of managing content including typically the ability to search a body of stored content for and retrieve particular content of interest. Additional functionality provided by a content management system may include without limitation tracking revisions versions review approvals distribution life cycle and retention policy information file name file type file creator application used to create owner and any other data and or metadata associated with stored content. In a typical content management system a request from a user to retrieve content such as a particular file version or other stored object results in the content management system obtaining the requested content from a content storage location e.g. a content server and providing the requested content to the user. Because the content management system has limited throughput this middleman role limits the performance of data delivery to and from the content server or other storage location. This is especially notable when a user makes a number of requests for the same content over a short period of time. It would be beneficial to be able to utilize the advantages of a content management system without suffering the performance limitations the content management system can impose.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein program instructions are sent over optical or electronic communication links. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. A component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task includes both a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Providing local access to managed content is disclosed. A remote system sends to a content management system a request associated with particular content such as a request to retrieve and or store write particular content. Information required to respond to the request is obtained from a content system. One or more content locators based at least in part on the information obtained from the content system are provided to the remote system. Each of the one or more content locators enables the remote system to retrieve the requested content locally from one of a plurality of local content systems such as a local cache server or directly write to one of a plurality of local content systems as applicable. The local content system is selected as the best to interact with the remote system based on criteria such as distance from the remote system to the selected local content system available bandwidth for the given selected local content system speed of access between the remote system and the selected local content system or any other relevant metric. In some embodiments one or more remote hosts are associated with a local cache server at which recently and or frequently accessed managed content is stored e.g. to enable such content to be accessed directly from the local cache more quickly and or efficiently than if the remote system were required to access the content indirectly through a content management system or directly from a more distant content server such as a primary content server that serves as a primary repository for the content. In some embodiments content made accessible directly from a local content system comprises a cached copy of corresponding content stored at a primary or other non local content system. The cached copy is synchronized e.g. periodically as changes to the content occur either at the local or the non local content system or otherwise to maintain the integrity and state of the content and to make the most up to date content available to users of the content.

Local content system is connected to local network in the example shown. In some embodiments local system comprises a local cache server. Content in local content system in some embodiments includes locally cached content that is managed by content management system and in various embodiments contains files objects metadata or other data that is also contained in content system . In some embodiments content management system authenticates a remote system or the user of the remote system including checking that the remote system or the user of the remote system has permission to access the requested content from or store the requested content to local content system . In some embodiments local content system is one of a plurality of systems containing content managed by content management system . A local content system is selected to interact with remote system based on criteria such as distance from remote system available bandwidth for the given local content system speed of access between remote system and the local content system or any other relevant metric. In some embodiments a locator or a prioritized list of locators usable to read content from or write store content to one or more local content systems is provided to remote system by content management system based at least in part on information including for example candidate file s or object s location s local content system distances from remote system bandwidth access to local content system s and candidate file s or object s attributes e.g. encryption and or compression characteristics received from content system . In some embodiments local content system comprises a local cache server associated with a geographic or other area region sub network etc. with which remote system is associated and in some such embodiments requests from remote system to perform operations with respect to content managed by content management system and or stored in content system are serviced by providing to remote system a URL and or other data usable by remote system to perform an operation it has requested to perform with respect to specific managed content such as retrieve and or writing such content.

Upon receiving from remote system a request to perform an operation with respect to managed content such as a request to retrieve a particular stored object content management system obtains from content system data required to respond. In some embodiments content system and or content management system maintains and or has access to a database service and or other source of information concerning which objects comprising the content managed by content management system and or stored by content system as applicable currently is available from local content system and in some embodiments whether the content as currently stored at local content system is fully synchronized with a corresponding master object stored at content system . If the content is not currently stored at the local content system in some embodiments a copy is pushed to the local content system e.g. via network and or local network in the example shown to enable remote system to perform the requested operation with respect to the content through direct communication with local content system . In some embodiments if requested content as stored at local content system is not fully synchronized with a corresponding master object stored at content system the content as stored at local content system is synchronized with the master object prior to responding to the request. In various embodiments if requested content is not currently available from a local content system associated with the requesting host and or a copy as stored at the local content system is not fully synchronized the content management system responds to the request by providing to the remote system a response that includes a locator and or other data usable by the remote system to obtain the content through direct communication with the local content system which then uses at least a portion of the locator and or other data to obtain from content system in various embodiments through content management system and or directly from content system the content and or updated portions thereof as applicable required to provide the requested content to remote system .

In some embodiments remote system is one of a plurality of hosts able to access content management system via network . In some embodiments content system and or local content system are implemented in one or more physical computer systems each of which includes one or more storage devices. In some embodiments content management system does not act as a middleman by obtaining requested content from content system or local content system and forwarding the content on to the remote system . Instead for at least some requests e.g. for objects larger than a threshold size the content management system is configured to obtain from the content system and content system is configured to provide data required by the content management system to form one or more URL s or other identifiers locators etc. to be provided by the content management system to the remote host to enable the remote host to obtain the requested content locally from the local content system .

In some embodiments remote system spawns client to receive the content locator and or a prioritized list of locators and obtain the content from one of a plurality of local content systems using the content locator. Client also handles errors picks up data transfers from where they left off after an interruption and retrieves content from a different e.g. backup secondary etc. local content system if the original system is no longer available to transfer content. In addition client takes care of handshaking between the content management system and remote system as well as the local content system and the remote system . Client manages the location that data is transferred to and from including the relevant folder locations the file and or object names how to display the folders and any differences required due to operating system conventions e.g. different naming protocols etc. . In some embodiments client handles a digital signature or other type of security that allows verification of the interaction between remote system and the content management system and between the between remote system and the local content system. In various embodiments client handles compression or decompression and or encryption or decryption of the transferred content as appropriate. In some embodiments client reverts to the transfer of content through the content management system in the event that it is not possible for file structure access or any other reason to transfer content directly to or from the system.

In some embodiments web interface communicates via the Internet and or one or more private and or public networks using communication interface . In some embodiments web interface includes a set of web tools and or web development components. In some embodiments web interface comprises a web application built using a web development tool or kit associated with content server interface . In some embodiments content server interface comprises a framework for managing content for web or other applications running on content management system . In some embodiments content server interface comprises classes of content management objects that web interface may be configured to invoke as required e.g. in a manner specified in an API application programming interface or other specification or definition to accomplish content management related tasks such as storing tracking finding retrieving associating metadata with and otherwise managing stored content. In some embodiments content system interface includes an API and or a library that provides an API to the content server. In some embodiments web interface and content server interface comprise software code executed by one or more processors associated with content management system .

Content system interface is connected to a content server or other content system through communication interface . In some embodiments content system interface communicates with the content server using communication interface and communication interface is omitted. In various embodiments content management system is implemented using multiple computer systems one computer system or any other appropriate hardware and software systems.

Accelerated content server is accessed directly from a network through communication interface so that files can be directly read from and written to content store by one or more local content systems. In some embodiments direct access of an local content system by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding multiple data transfers through a content management system so that the content management system content is only accessed once where the local content system is managed by a content management system so that content in content system and one or more local content systems are kept in appropriate states e.g. up to date copies of files are kept in the content system and local content system s . In various embodiments content system is implemented using multiple computer systems one computer system or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives tape drives semiconductor memory devices optical data storage devices or any mass or other storage device.

In some embodiments metadata database contains metadata information about the content in content store and content in one or more local caching stores. Examples of metadata include when and by whom documents were created modified edited reviewed and approved keywords related to documents version data routing and collaboration data date time the content was created modified etc. and data associating two or more stored objects with each other e.g. to create and manage a virtual document or object. In various embodiments metadata also include information about distances between remote systems and local content systems or any other relevant metric that may affect the selection or prioritized listing of local content systems that are interacted with by a remote system in response to a content request or a request to write store content. In various embodiments keywords in metadata database are entered by the creator editor modifier or approver of the document or by an automatic process or engine that scans the document to extract or identify relevant keywords such as by using natural language or other linguistic technologies to identify key concepts based on the words comprising the document.

In some embodiments content server maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in content store and accelerated content server has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of content server to read write content from to content store . In some embodiments accelerated content server comprises a web server.

In some embodiments content server has information regarding files documents or objects that have been transferred out of content store and or local caching stores i.e. objects that have been checked out for editing or other use by a user enabling management of requests for content. In some embodiments a content management system associated with the content server keeps track of which objects have been checked out. In some such embodiments a subsequent request to the content management system to retrieve an object that has been checked out and has not yet been checked back in is denied e.g. by sending a reply indicating the content is not currently available is checked out to a user identified in the reply etc.

In some embodiments content system tracks and or has access to a database service and or other resource that tracks which data objects are currently available from which local content store s . In some embodiments content system tracks and or determines periodically and or at the time of responding to a query whether a local content system associated with the request e.g. one that has the requested content and or is associated with a remote host that made the request is or was the last time status was checked and or reported online or in some embodiments which of a plurality of local content systems able to service the request is are online.

Accelerated content server is accessed directly from a network through communication interface so that files can be directly read from and written to local caching store in various embodiments by a content management system a content system and or a requesting host. In some embodiments direct access of local content system by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding data transfers through a content management system. Even in an embodiment in which content is provided to the local content system initially via an indirect transfer from a primary content system first to a content management system and then from the content management system to the local content management system efficiencies are realized as subsequent operations requested by the remote system are performed through direct communication with the local content system. In some embodiments local content system is managed by a content management system so that content in a primary content system and one or more local content systems are kept in appropriate states e.g. up to date copies of files are kept in the content system and local content system s . In some embodiments local content system validates content from a content system a remote content system or any other content system. In various embodiments local content system is implemented using multiple computer systems one computer system or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives tape drives semiconductor memory devices optical data storage devices or any mass or other storage device.

In some embodiments accelerated content server maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in local caching store . In some embodiments local content system also includes a content server and accelerated content server has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of the content server to read write content from to local caching store . In some embodiments accelerated content server comprises a web server.

While a number of the examples described in detail above involve request to retrieve and or write content the technique described herein may be used to enable a host to perform any desired operation with respect to managed content through direct communication with a local content system such as a local cache server.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

