---

title: GHRH agonists for islet cell transplantation and function and the treatment of diabetes
abstract: Disclosed herein are compositions of GHRH agonists and peptides, and methods to treat diabetes. In one embodiment, a method of promoting survival of grafted cells and/or tissues may involve exposing the cells and/or tissues to an effective amount of at least one agonist of GHRH. In some embodiments, the grafted cells and/or tissues may be pancreatic cells. In some embodiments, the grafted cells may be islet cells co-cultured with non-pancreatic cells. In a further embodiment, a method of treating a patient diagnosed with diabetes involves transplanting and/or grafting the islet cells and/or tissues comprising islet cells into a patient, and administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one agonist of GHRH to the patient. In some embodiments, the islet cells and/or tissues comprising islet cells may be optionally exposed to GHRH and/or at least one agonist of GHRH prior to transplantation into a patient. In some embodiments, the at least one agonist of GHRH is administered pre-transplantation, concurrently with transplantation, post-transplantation or any combinations thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09393271&OS=09393271&RS=09393271
owner: Dresden University of Technology
number: 09393271
owner_city: Dresden
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 745 038 filed on Dec. 21 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This work was supported by Medical Research Service grants from the Veterans Affairs Department USA. The government may have certain rights in this application.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to GHRH agonists and peptide compositions and methods to treat diabetes. In one embodiment a method of promoting survival of grafted cells and or tissues may involve exposing the cells and or tissues to an effective amount of a GHRH agonist peptide. In some embodiments the grafted cells and or tissues may be pancreatic cells. In some embodiments the grafted cells may be islet cells co cultured with non pancreatic cells. In a further embodiment a method of treating a patient diagnosed with diabetes involves transplanting and or grafting the islet cells and or tissues comprising islet cells into a patient and administering a therapeutically effective amount of a GHRH agonist peptide. In some embodiments the islet cells and or tissues comprising islet cells may be optionally exposed to to the GHRH agonist peptide prior to transplantation into a patient. In some embodiments the GHRH agonist peptide is administered pre transplantation concurrently with transplantation post transplantation or any combinations thereof.

In additional embodiment a method of modulating function of an insulin producing cell or a tissue in vitro and or in vivo may involve exposing the insulin producing cell or the tissue to an effective amount of a GHRH agonist peptide. In some embodiments the insulin producing cell may be an islet cell or a cell expressing a recombinant insulin molecule. In some embodiments the cell expressing the recombinant insulin molecule may be a stem cell a pancreatic cell a transformed cell a microbe or a cell sensitive to GHRH.

In a further embodiment a method of transplanting and or grafting insulin producing cells tissues into a diabetic mammal in need thereof may involve transplanting and or grafting the insulin producing cells tissues into an adrenal gland of the diabetic mammal and administering a therapeutically effective amount of a GHRH agonist peptide to the diabetic mammal.

In the foregoing embodiments the GHRH agonist peptide comprises a peptide of formula R A A Asp Ala Ile A Thr A Ser Tyr A A Val Leu A Gln Leu Ser Ala A A A Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle A A A R 

This invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. The terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an antioxidant is a reference to one or more antioxidants and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. The peptides compounds described herein can be administered either alone or in combination concurrently or serially with other pharmaceuticals. For example the peptides compounds can be administered in combination with other anti cancer or anti neoplastic agents or in combination with other cancer therapies other than chemotherapy such as for example surgery or radiotherapy. In some embodiments the peptides compounds described herein can also be administered in combination with i.e. as a combined formulation or as separate formulations with antibiotics.

By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to discourage combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition disease or symptom of a patient.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition disease or symptom of a patient. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of the peptides compounds or the peptides administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the peptides compounds administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. The effective amount administered may be determined by a physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of peptides compounds to be administered and the chosen route of administration. A therapeutically effective amount of the peptide compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the target tissue.

Generally speaking the term tissue refers to any aggregation of similarly specialized cells which are united in the performance of a particular function.

As used herein analog of polypeptides refers to an amino acid sequence that is altered by one or more amino acid residues. The analog may have conservative changes wherein a substituted amino acid has similar structural or chemical properties e.g. replacement of leucine with isoleucine . More rarely an analog may have nonconservative changes e.g. replacement of glycine with tryptophan . Analogous minor variations may also include amino acid deletions or insertions or both. Guidance in determining which amino acid residues may be substituted inserted or deleted without abolishing biological activity may be found using computer programs well known in the art for example LASERGENE software DNASTAR .

By the term modulate it is meant that any of the mentioned activities are e.g. increased enhanced increased agonized acts as an agonist promoted decreased reduced suppressed blocked or antagonized acts as an antagonist . Modulation can increase activity more than 1 fold 2 fold 3 fold 5 fold 10 fold 100 fold etc. over baseline values. Modulation can also decrease its activity below baseline values. Modulation can also normalize an activity to a baseline value.

The terms subject patient or individual are used interchangeably herein and refers to a mammalian subject to be treated. In some embodiments the patient is a human. In some cases the methods can be used in experimental animals in veterinary application and in the development of animal models for disease including but not limited to rodents including mice rats and hamsters and primates. In some embodiments the patient is a patient in need thereof.

As used herein the phrase in need thereof means that the patient has been identified as having a need for the particular method or treatment. In some embodiments the identification can be by any means of diagnosis. In any of the methods and treatments described herein the animal or mammal can be in need thereof. In some embodiments the animal or mammal is in an environment or will be traveling to an environment in which a particular disease disorder or condition is prevalent.

 Treatment is an intervention performed with the intention of preventing the development or altering the pathology or symptoms of a disorder. Accordingly treatment can refer to therapeutic treatment or prophylactic or preventative measures. In some embodiments the treatment is for therapeutic treatment. In some embodiments the treatment is for prophylactic or preventative treatment. Those in need of treatment can include those already with the disorder as well as those in which the disorder is to be prevented.

As used herein ameliorated or treatment refers to a symptom which is approaches a normalized value for example a value obtained in a healthy patient or individual e.g. is less than 50 different from a normalized value is less than about 25 different from a normalized value is less than 10 different from a normalized value or is not significantly different from a normalized value as determined using routine statistical tests.

Generally speaking the term tissue refers to any aggregation of similarly specialized cells which are united in the performance of a particular function.

As used herein the term therapeutic means a peptide agent compound utilized to discourage combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition disease or symptom of a patient.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of an agent or a peptide is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition disease or symptom of a patient. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of the peptides agents administered according to the methods described herein to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the peptides agents administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. The effective amount administered may be determined by a physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of peptides agents to be administered and the chosen route of administration. A therapeutically effective amount of the peptides agent is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the target tissue. The peptides can also be administered without excipients.

 Agonist of GHRH means a compound or peptide other than GHRH which has the function of binding to and stimulating GHRH receptors resulting in the release of growth hormone or another physiological endocrine or cellular response specific for GHRH. In some embodiments a GHRH agonist may activate GHRH receptor and may not result in the release of growth hormone. A GHRH agonist may comprise a full length GHRH sequence in which certain modifications have been made e.g. amino acid residues have been substituted side groups have been added. The amino acid sequence of GHRH 1 30 starting at the N terminal part is Tyr Ala Asp Ala Ile Phe Thr Asn Ser Tyr Arg Lys Val Leu Gly Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Met Ser Arg Gln SEQ ID NO 1 . A GHRH agonist may comprise a GHRH sequence to which amino acid deletions insertions and or substitutions have been made. A GHRH agonist may also be a fragment or modified fragment of GHRH having the capability to bind to the GHRH receptor and stimulate release of growth hormone. The biological activity of GHRH is understood to reside in the N terminal amino acid sequences of the hormone. Thus fragments or modified fragments between amino acid residues 1 and 30 or between amino acid residues 1 and 29 are expected to be useful.

For example an agonist of GHRH can include one or more features that protect it against degradation by biological chemical and or other processes. For example such features can protect the GHRH agonist peptide from proteolytic enzymes in the wound milieu fluids e.g. from proteases secreted by neutrophils. Such proteolytic enzymes can inactivate e.g. degrade or split unprotected peptides such as unprotected GHRH. Such protective features can include for example the replacement of certain amino acids residues in the native peptide sequence of GHRH with other different amino acids residues . In some embodiments replacement of Arg in position 29 by Agm agmatine 4 guanidino butylamine may provide resistance to enzymatic degradation of the peptide at the C terminus. In some embodiments replacement of Tyr in position 1 by des aminotyrosine Dat may result in peptides with increased biological activities as a result of the resistance to N terminal enzymatic degradation. Similarly substitutions of hydrophobic groups at the C terminal of peptides can result in significant increase in specific activity of the peptides.

Diabetes occurs when there is a critical reduction in islet mass and function that prevents an adequate insulin response to a carbohydrate stimulus. For a long time insulin has been the only available therapy for the treatment of type I and type II diabetes and other conditions related to lack of or diminished production of insulin. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is well established that at the onset of type I diabetes patients have already lost at least 90 of their islets and their number of islets continues to steadily decline. In addition it become clear is that not only in type I diabetes is there a deficit of islet mass but also at the time of diagnosis of type II diabetes patients exhibit a loss of at least 50 of the islet mass and number. As with type I patients the number and mass of islets continues to decline in type II diabetes not from autoimmune attack but because the beta cells effectively become burned out .

Despite steady improvement in insulin formulations and technically controlled application methods complete normalization of metabolic control and prevention of blood glucose excursions is achieved only rarely in patients with diabetes mellitus. Patients with insufficient glucose control are at risk for the development of micro and macrovascular complications. Transplantation of pancreatic islet cells is a valid treatment option for selected patients with type I and type II diabetes. Significant progress has been made over the past decade with the introduction of improved immunosuppressive protocols and with isolation of high quality human islets for clinical transplantation. However insufficient engraftment and progressive loss of transplanted islets constitute critical limitations of islet transplantation. In many instances transplanted isltes are poorly viable in part due to damage either during retrieval and isolation or due to collapse of the islet structure resulting from insufficient vascularization continuous hypoxia and lack of regeneration proliferation post transplantation. Therefore efforts to improve islet survival and growth post transplantation are desired.

The present disclosure demonstrates the function of GHRH agonists in promoting islet graft survival and function which may help to reduce the islet mass necessary to reverse diabetes. In some embodiments a method of promoting survival of grafted cells and or tissues may involve exposing the cells and or tissues to an effective amount of at least one agonist of GHRH. In some embodiments the grafted cells and or tissues may be pancreatic cells. In some embodiments the grafted cells tissues may be a part portion or biopsy of a donor pancreas which comprises insulin producing cells. In still other embodiments the grafted islet cells may be isolated or suspended islets or islet cells including cells withdrawn or excised from a fetal or adult donor cadever cells maintained in primary culture or an immortalized cell line. In some embodiments the grafted cells may be islet cells co cultured with non pancreatic cells. The islet cells may be co cultured with any non pancreatic cells such as but not limited to hepatice cells adrenal cells stem cells neuronal cells adipocytes skeletal muscle cells cardiomyocytes and osteoblasts. In some embodiments the method comprises exposing the grafted cells tissues to at least one GHRH agonist peptide or a combination of GHRH agonist peptides to achieve the desired effect.

In some embodiments the GHRH agonists may improve survival and growth of immortalized rodent and other mammalian insulin producing cells such as INS 1 cells isolated mammalian islets and pancreatic cells co cultured with adrenal cells in vitro. It is known that GHRH receptor is expressed in many non neuronal cells such as adrenal cells and pancreatic islets and thus GHRH may act independently of pituatory GH in mediating its effects. In some embodiments the GHRH agonists may cause a significant increase in cell viability and proliferation and block apoptosis in INS 1 cells isolated mammalian islets and adrenal cell co cultures. In some embodiments the viability of isolated pancreatic islets or any insulin producing cells may increase after treatment with the GHRH agonists when cultured alone or in co culture with non pancreatic cells.

In additional embodiments a method of treating a patient diagnosed with diabetes may involve transplanting and or grafting the islet cells and or tissues comprising islet cells into a patient and administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one agonist of GHRH to the patient. The patient may be a type I or type II diabetic. In some embodiments the donor islet cells comprise a part portion or biopsy of a donor pancreas which comprises insulin producing cells. In still other embodiments the donor islet cells comprise isolated or suspended islets or islet cells including cells withdrawn or excised from a fetal or adult donor cadaver cells maintained in primary culture or an immortalized cell line. In some embodiments the transplanted islet cell and or tissue may be syngeneic or xenogeneic. Other sources of insulin producing cells include islet progenitor cells such as fetal cells or stem cells optionally expanded in primary culture. Any appropriate cell type can be used however including cells harboring exogenous genetic material encoding an expressible insulin gene. Thus the invention encompasses the use of transfected or transformed host cells which have been or are derived from ancestor cells which have been engineered to express insulin either constitutively or inducibly e.g. under control of a glucose responsive promoter or enhancer . In other embodiments the invention encompasses the use of pancreatic or other donor cell types derived from a transgenic mammal that has been engineered to include genetic material necessary for the production of insulin in some or all of its body tissues. In some embodiments the method comprises administering at least one GHRH agonist peptide or a combination of GHRH agonist peptides to achieve the desired effect.

In some embodiments the islet cells and or tissues comprising islet cells may be optionally exposed to GHRH and or at least one agonist of GHRH prior to transplantation into a patient. In some embodiments the GHRH and or the at least one agonist of GHRH is administered pre transplantation concurrently with transplantation post transplantation or any combinations thereof. In a further embodiment of the method of the present invention an anti inflammatory or immunosuppressive drug may be administered to a patient prior to following or concurrently with the combination of GHRH agonists described herein above. In some embodiments the GHRH agonists may be administered to a diabetic patient who has not undergone islet transplantation.

In additional embodiments a method of modulating function of an insulin producing cell or a tissue in vitro and or in vivo may involve exposing the insulin producing cell or the tissue to an effective amount of at least one agonist of GHRH. In some embodiments the insulin producing cell may be an islet cell or a cell expressing a recombinant insulin molecule. In some embodiments the cell expressing the recombinant insulin molecule may be a stem cell a pancreatic cell a transformed cell a microbe a cell sensitive to GHRH or any one of the insulin producing cells or tissues described herein. In some embodiments the method comprises exposing the insulin producing cell to at least one GHRH agonist peptide or a combination of GHRH agonist peptides to achieve the desired effect.

Currently more than 90 of clinical islet transplantations are performed by infusion into the portal vein with subsequent embolization to the liver. Although the liver site has been extremely well characterized it remains suboptimal as up to 60 of islets transplanted there die shortly after transplantation. Without wishing to be bound by theory a major reason for this massive islet loss is that the hepatic parenchymal oxygen tension is well below that of the pancreas. In addition the frequent changes in blood glucose levels and high glucose concentrations are known to be deleterious to the islets. Therefore many studies have pursued alternative sites with more adequate microenvironment for pancreatic islet transplantation.

The present disclosure teaches the use of adrenal glands as an alternate site for islet transplantation. In a further embodiment a method of transplanting and or grafting insulin producing cells tissues into a diabetic mammal in need thereof may involve transplanting and or grafting the insulin producing cells tissues into an adrenal gland of the diabetic mammal and administering a therapeutically effective amount of growth hormone releasing hormone GHRH and or at least one agonist of GHRH to the diabetic mammal.

The adrenal gland may offer the unique features favouring its use as a transplantation site for pancreatic islets because of high oxygen tension through a dense vascularization a high endothelial cell content and local anti inflammatory and immunoprotective environment. In addition the adrenal gland may serve as a site for islet transplantation for the following reasons i adrenal glands and pancreas are both endocrine tissues with similar microenvironment ii the unique feature of extensive vascularization of the adrenal gland which reduces hypoxia stress iii the hypothesis of anti apoptotic and pro proliferative effects of various signalling molecules within the adrenal and iiii the unique advantage of a local anti inflammatory and immunosuppressive microenvironment.

The adrenal gland receives greater amount of perfusion than any other organ for its size. Each adrenal cell is in direct contact with an endothelial cell. This intimate interaction between endothelial cells and adrenal cells provides crucial trophic signals for cortical cells as well as neuroendocrine chromaffin cells. The highly vascularized tissue provides an ideal niche to study cell endothelial cell interactions. Furthermore this crosstalk between cell endothelial cell can be ideally studied under growth hormone and GHRH stimulation which are known to be critical for the trophic effect of adrenal vasculature and cell survival. These unique properties make the adrenal gland a suitable transplant site for pancreatic islets.

In some embodiments pretreatment of islets with GHRH agonists before transplantation may result in improved viability. In some embodiments this effect may be even more pronounced when the GHRH analog is administered to islet adrenal co culture systems. In some embodiments co culturing of islets with adrenal cells without any exposure to GHRH agonists may also improve the viability of islet cells. There is an established functional interaction of the GHRH GH IGF 1 axis with both the islets and adrenal cells that may represent the common denominator for this effect. GHRH peptides growth hormone and IGF are crucial factors in providing a trophic stimulus on the adrenal cortex and are potent regulators of steroid metabolism both in the adrenal and the periphery including islets. Thus GHRH receptor agonists may have the potential not only to improve islet function but also to promote engraftment and integration of islets in the adrenal microenvironment.

Disclosed herein are a novel series of synthetic peptide analogs of hGHRH 1 29 NHor hGHRH 1 30 NH. The novel synthetic peptides of this invention exhibit high activities in stimulating the release of pituitary growth hormone GH in animals including humans. They also show extremely high binding capacity to the hGHRH receptor. These synthetic hGHRH analogs also retain their physiological activity in solution for an extended period of time and resist enzymatic degradation in the body. The stronger GH releasing potencies of the new analogs in vivo as compared to previously described ones results from combination of replacements in hGHRH 1 29 NHor hGHRH 1 30 NHand from resistance to in vivo degradation. Without in any way limiting the invention or its scope applicants wish to express their understanding that the retention of activity in vitro and resistance to in vivo degradation are due to multiple substitutions in the molecule incorporation of N Me Tyr or des amino Tyr Dat in position 1 which protect peptides from the degradation at the N terminus incorporation of agmatine Agm or NH CHor NH CH CHat position 29 or extension of the C terminus with an omega amino acid which protects peptides from degradation at the C terminus and also the replacements of both lysines in the synthetic peptides with ornithine Orn which is a poor substrate for trypsin like enzymes Gly at residue 15 by Abu. To increase chemical stability Asn at position 8 is replaced by Gln Thr or Ala. And Met in position 27 is replaced by norleucine Nle . Replacement of other residues in the peptides and the combination of these replacements also are found to promote biological activity.

In some embodiments the GHRH agonist peptide is represented by the formula R A A Asp Ala Ile A Thr A Ser Tyr A A Val Leu A Gln Leu Ser Ala A A A Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle A A A R.

The nomenclature used to define the amino acid residues and synthetic peptides is according to the IUPAC IUB Commission on Biochemical Nomenclature European J. Biochem. 1984 138 9 37 . The naturally occurring amino acids found in proteins are depicted by the following three letter codes Gly Ala Val Leu Ile Ser Thr Lys Arg Asp Asn Glu Gln Cys Met Phe Tyr Pro Trp and His.

In some embodiments the GHRH agonist peptide may be of the formula R A A Asp Ala Ile A Thr A Ser Tyr Arg Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle A A A R 

In some embodiments the GHRH agonist peptide may be of the formula A A Asp Ala Ile A Thr A Ser Tyr Arg Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle A A A R 

The amino acid sequences of the synthetic peptides are numbered in correspondence with the amino acid residues in wild type hGHRH 1 30 SEQ ID NO 1 thus for example the synthetic peptide P 20103 may be represented in an abbreviated form as below 

The peptides are synthesized by suitable methods such as by exclusive solid phase techniques by partial solid phase techniques by fragment condensation or by classical solution phase synthesis. For example the techniques of exclusive solid phase synthesis are set forth in the textbook Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis J. M. Stewart and J. D. Young Pierce Chem. Company Rockford Ill. 1984 2nd. ed. and M. Bodanszky Principles of Peptide Synthesis Springer Verlag 1984. The hGHRH agonist peptides are preferably prepared using solid phase synthesis such as that generally described by Merrifield J. Am. Chem. Soc 85 p. 2149 1963 although other equivalent chemical syntheses known in the art can also be used as previously mentioned.

The synthesis is carried out with amino acids that are protected at their alpha amino group. Urethane type protecting groups Boc or Fmoc are preferably used for the protection of the alpha amino group. In certain cases protected omega amino acids are also used during the synthesis. Boc or Fmoc protecting groups are also appropriate for the protection of omega amino groups.

In solid phase synthesis the N alpha protected or N omega protected amino acid moiety which forms the aminoacyl group of the final peptide at the C terminus is attached to a polymeric resin support via a chemical link. After completion of the coupling reaction the alpha or omega amino protecting group is selectively removed to allow subsequent coupling reactions to take place at the amino terminus preferably with 50 TFA in DCM when the N alpha N omega protecting group is Boc or by 20 piperidine in DMF when the N alpha N omega protecting group is Fmoc. The remaining amino acids with similarly Boc or Fmoc protected alpha or omega amino groups are coupled stepwise to the free amino group of the preceding amino acid on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence. Because the amino acid residues are coupled to the alpha or omega amino group of the C terminus residue growth of the synthetic hGHRH analogue peptides begins at the C terminus and progress towards the N terminus. When the desired sequence has been obtained the peptide is acylated or the amino group is left free at the N terminus and the peptide is removed from the support polymer.

Each protected amino acid is used in excess 2.5 or 3 equivalents and the coupling reactions are usually carried out in DCM DMF or mixtures thereof. The extent of completion of the coupling reaction is monitored at each stage by the ninhydrin reaction. In cases where incomplete coupling is determined the coupling procedure is repeated or a capping by acetylation of unreacted amino groups is carried out before removal of the alpha or omega amino protecting group prior to the coupling of the next amino acid.

The hGHRH agonist peptides may be synthesized on a variety of support polymers i.e. MBHA Merrifield PAM Rink amide or Wang resins. The peptides can also be synthesized on aminomethyl MBHA or other resins that have been previously derivatized with suitable linkers. Examples of such linkers are the base labile 4 hydroxymethyl benzoic acid HMBA linker for the attachment of C terminal carboxyl groups the acid labile para sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl SPA linker which permits the attachment of agmatine through its guanidino group or the acid labile 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl linker which allows the synthesis of peptides with C terminal methylamide NH CH3 .

When peptides with an amidated C terminus are synthesized by using Boc strategy the preferred resin is MBHA. Attachment of the C terminal amino acid to this resin can be accomplished by the standard DIC mediated coupling method described in Table 2.

In order to prepare peptides with C terminal methylamide NH CH or ethylamide NH CH CH modification two methods can be used a the Merrifield resin is loaded with the Boc protected C terminal amino acid by coupling mediated by potassium fluoride KF or cesium salt at elevated temperature b 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetylAm or 3 Ethyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl Am resins may be used respectively for the synthesis of peptides having C terminal methylamide NH CH or ethylamide NH CH CH modification. When using these resins the Fmoc protecting group can be removed from the resin with the methods described in Table 3 before the synthesis.

For the synthesis of peptides having Agm at the C terminus two methods may be used. In one embodiment the support phase is MBHA resin or an aminomethyl resin and the guanidino group of Boc Agm is joined to the support polymer through a stable but readily cleavable linker such as the para sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl SPA moiety. The alpha amino Boc protected Agm is reacted with the chlorosulfonyl phenoxyacetic acid Cl SO CH O CH COOH to form Boc Agm SO CH O CH COOH. This compound is then coupled to the support polymer e.g. to MBHA resin using DIC or HBTU HOBt DIEA as activating reagent to yield Boc Agm SPA MBHA. In another embodiment Agm SO PS resin may be used for the synthesis 1 DVB 100 200 mesh 2.5 mmol g Advanced ChemTech Louisville Ky. at pH 10 13 to form Boc Agm SO resin.

Bifunctional amino acids i.e. those not having side chain functional groups are mostly used in the form of their N alpha Boc or Fmoc derivatives for synthesis. Bifunctional omega amino acids are also typically used in the form of their N omega Boc or Fmoc derivatives. Thus Boc Gly OH or Fmoc Gly OH is typically used for incorporating the Gly residue. The naturally occurring bifunctional amino acids are Gly Ala Val Leu Ile Phe and Pro and some well known non coded bifunctional amino acids used in this invention are Abu Aib Gab Nle Aah and Aap.

Some of the amino acid residues of the peptides have side chain functional groups which are reactive with reagents used in coupling or deprotection. When such side chain groups are present suitable protecting groups are joined to these functional groups to prevent undesirable chemical reactions occurring during the coupling reactions.

The following general rules may be followed in selecting a particular side chain protecting group a the protecting group preferably retains its protecting properties and is not split off under coupling conditions b the protecting group should be stable under conditions for removing the alpha amino protecting group at each step of the synthesis c the side chain protecting group must be removable upon the completion of the synthesis of the desired amino acid sequence under reaction conditions that will not undesirably alter the peptide chain.

When Boc amino acids are used in the synthesis the reactive side chain functional groups can be protected as follows Tos or nitro NO for Arg and Har cHx or Fm for Asp and Glu Bom for His 2ClZ or Fmoc for Lys and Orn Bzl for Ser and Thr and 2BrZ for Tyr. The side chains of Asn and Gln are unprotected.

In the case of Fmoc synthesis the reactive side chain functional groups can be protected by other appropriate protective groups as follows 2 2 4 6 7 pentamethyl dihydrobenzofurane 5 sulfonyl Pbf 4 methoxy 2 3 6 trimethyl benzenesulphonyl Mtr or bis Boc for Arg and Har tert butyl Bu1 for Asp and Glu no protective group or trityl Trt protection for Asn and Gln Trt for His Boc or 4 methoxytrityl Mmt for Lys and Orn tBu or Trt for Ser and Thr and tBu or 2 chlorotrityl 2ClTrt for Tyr. In addition to the widely known coded and non coded amino acids mentioned above some of the peptides of this application contain less common non coded amino acids such as homoarginine Har ornithine Orn N methyl alanine N Me Ala N methyl tyrosine N Me Tyr pentafluoro phenylalanine Phe F 5 Fpa5 . These amino acid residues are incorporated into the peptides by coupling the suitable protected amino acid derivatives. A non exclusive list of such protected amino acid derivatives that can be used is as follows Boc Har Tos OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc N Me Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Har Pbf OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc N Me Ala OH and Fmoc N Me Tyr 2ClTrt OH. The protected derivatives of noncoded amino acids mentioned above are commonly available from several commercial suppliers including Novabiochem San Diego Calif. Advanced ChemTech Louisville Ky. Bachem King of Prussia Pa. Peptides International Louisville Ky. RSP Amino Acid Analogues DBA Worcester Mass. and AnaSpec San Jose Calif. .

Utilizing the above mentioned support polymers and after loading of the protected C terminal amino acid or Agm residue the peptide itself may suitably be built up by solid phase synthesis in the conventional manner. Each protected amino acid is coupled in about a three fold molar excess with respect to resin bound free amino residues and the coupling may be carried out in a medium such as DMF DCM 1 1 or in DMF or DCM alone. The selection of an appropriate coupling reagent is within the skill of the art. Particularly suitable as coupling reagents are N N diisopropyl carbodiimide DIC or HBTU combined with HOBt in the presence of DIEA. The success of the coupling reaction at each stage of the synthesis is preferably monitored by the ninhydrin reaction. In cases where incomplete coupling occurs either the coupling procedure is repeated or the resin bound unreacted amino residues are acetylated using a capping reagent before removal of the alpha or omega amino protecting group. Suitable capping reagents are 1 acetylimidazole and AcO in pyridine.

When the synthesis is complete the peptide is cleaved from the support phase and its side chain protecting groups are removed.

In cases where peptides with an amidated C terminus CONH or with a C terminal carboxyl group COOH are prepared by Boc strategy on an MBHA Merrifield or PAM resin the removal of the peptide from the resin is performed by treatment with a reagent such as liquid hydrogen fluoride HF . This is also the case for peptides synthesized on the Boc Agm SPA MBHA or Bos Agm tosyl resin. In some instances the liquid HF also cleaves all the remaining side chain protecting groups. However if side chain protecting groups resistant to HF treatment are present on the peptide additional cleavage steps should be performed in order to remove these protecting groups. Thus Fm and Fmoc protecting groups are removed by treatment with 20 piperidine in DMF prior to or after the HF treatment.

Suitably the dried and protected peptide resin is treated with a mixture consisting of 1.0 mL m cresol and 10 mL anhydrous hydrogen fluoride per gram of peptide resin for 60 120 min at 0 C. to cleave the peptide from the resin as well as to remove the HF labile side chain protecting groups. After the removal of the hydrogen fluoride under a stream of nitrogen and vacuum the free peptides are precipitated with ether filtered washed with ether and ethyl acetate extracted with 50 acetic acid and lyophilized.

In cases where peptides with a methyl NH CH3 or ethyl amide NH CH CH C terminus are prepared by Boc strategy on the Merrifield or HMBA MBHA resin the protected peptides are first cleaved from the resin by methylamine CHNH or ethylamine CHCHNHmediated aminolysis. Suitably liquid CHNHor CHCHNHis transferred into a cooled heavy walled glass flask that contains the dried and protected peptide resin. The quantity of liquid CHNHor CHCHNHshould be sufficient to cover the peptide resin. The flask is stoppered and shaken with the liquid CHNHor CHCHNHfor 3.5 hours at room temperature in order to allow for the reaction to take place. After this the flask is cooled in a dry ice bath opened and the liquid CHNHor CHCHNHis filtered off the solid residue that contains a mixture of resin and cleaved peptide the peptide still having the protecting groups attached. The solid residue is dried and subjected to HF treatment as described above in order to remove the side chain protecting groups of the peptide.

In cases when peptides with a methyl NH CH or ethyl amide NH CH CH C terminus are prepared by Fmoc strategy on 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl 30 indol 1 yl acetyl AM or 3 Ethyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resins respectively the protected peptides are cleaved from the resin with a cleavage cocktail. Since no single cleavage and deprotection procedure is optimal for all peptides due to the nature of the linker and the amino acid composition of the peptide the following cleavage cocktail proved to be the most suitable for cleavage and deprotection of GHRH agonists 94 TFA 3 HO 1.5 m cresol and 1.5 phenol. Cleavage cocktail must be prepared fresh and have to use high quality TFA and scavengers. The amount of cleavage cocktail used depends on both the amount of the peptide resin and its properties. Enough cocktail solution should be used to 5 saturate and swell the resin during the reaction with about 2 3 mm of clear solution below the floating beads. Generally 5 mL of cleavage cocktail is used for 0.5 g of resin. The choice of reaction time depends on the linker and the side chain protecting groups of the peptide. Preferably 3 hour reaction time is used for the cleavage and deprotection of GHRH agonists. To induce peptide precipitation the cleavage mixture is added dropwise to cold preferably 20 C. ether. The non peptide products remain in the ether solution. The precipitated material is collected by filtration or centrifugation and is washed three times with cold ether to remove any residual scavengers. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration and after dilution with water the solution is lyophilized.

The purification of the crude peptides can be effected using procedures well known in peptide chemistry. For example purification may be performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0 using an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN in a linear gradient mode e.g. 30 55 B in 120 min flow rate of 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph and pooled to give maximum purity. Analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 50 mm C18 300 A pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. using isocratic elution with a solvent system consisting of A and B defined above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The peptides are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry Agilent Technologies 6210 Time of Light LC MS Santa Clara Calif. and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

The peptides of the invention may be administered in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable nontoxic salts such as acid addition salts. Illustrative of such acid addition salts are hydrochloride hydrobromide sulphate phosphate fumarate gluconate tannate maleate acetate trifluoroacetate citrate benzoate succinate alginate pamoate malate ascorbate tartarate and the like. Particularly 10 preferred agonists are salts of low solubility e.g. pamoate salts and the like. These exhibit long duration of activity.

Formulations containing the peptides of the present invention and a suitable carrier can be solid dosage forms which include but are not limited to softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills powders and granules topical dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams gels and jellies and foams and parenteral dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions suspensions emulsions and dry powder comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present invention. In some embodiments a single dose may comprise one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like. Specific examples include for example a dose comprising 1 2 3 or 4 softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like.

In some embodiments one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken to achieve the desired dosing. In some embodiments one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken simultaneously to achieve the desired dosing. In yet another embodiment one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken separately during the course of a specified time period such as for example a 24 hour period. For example one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken twice in a 24 hour period to achieve the desired dose. In some embodiments one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken with a meal. For example one or more softgels tablets capsules cachets pellets pills or the like can be taken with each meal during the course of a 24 hour period to achieve the desired dose.

It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 can be consulted.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical excipient may include without limitation binders coating disintegrants fillers diluents flavors colors lubricants glidants preservatives sorbents sweeteners conjugated linoleic acid CLA gelatin beeswax purified water glycerol any type of oil including without limitation fish oil or soybean oil or the like. Pharmaceutical compositions of the peptides compounds also can comprise suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate various sugars starches cellulose derivatives gelatin and polymers such as e.g. polyethylene glycols.

The peptides compounds of the present invention can be administered in the conventional manner by any route where they are active. Administration can be systemic parenteral topical or oral. For example administration can be but is not limited to parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal or ocular routes or intravaginally by inhalation by depot injections or by implants. Thus modes of administration for the peptides compounds of the present invention either alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals can be but are not limited to sublingual injectable including short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by use of vaginal creams suppositories pessaries vaginal rings rectal suppositories intrauterine devices and transdermal forms such as patches and creams.

Alternatively the peptides may be administered as an intranasal spray with an appropriate carrier or by pulmonary inhalation. One suitable route of administration is a depot form formulated from a biodegradable suitable polymer e.g. poly D L lactide coglycolide as microcapsules microgranules or cylindrical implants containing dispersed agonist compounds.

Specific modes of administration will depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of peptides compounds to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered will depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular animal or human being treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

The amount of peptide needed depends on the type of pharmaceutical composition and on the mode of administration. In cases where human subjects receive solutions of GHRH agonists administered by i.m. or s.c. injection or in the form of intranasal spray or pulmonary inhalation the typical doses are between 2 20 mg day patient given once a day or divided into 2 4 administrations day. When the GHRH agonists are administered intravenously to human patients typical doses are in the range of 8 80 g kg of body weight day divided into 1 4 bolus injections day or given as a continuous infusion. When depot preparations of the GHRH agonists are used e.g. by i.m. injection of pamoate salts or other salts of low solubility or by i.m. 10 or s.c. administration of microcapsules microgranules or implants containing the agonist compounds dispersed in a biodegradable polymer the typical doses are between 1 10 mg agonist day patient.

The peptides compounds of the present invention can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. The peptides compounds can be administered by continuous infusion subcutaneously over a period of about 15 minutes to about 24 hours. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

For oral administration the peptides compounds can be formulated readily by combining these peptides compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the peptides compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include but are not limited to fillers such as sugars including but not limited to lactose sucrose mannitol and sorbitol cellulose preparations such as but not limited to maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents can be added such as but not limited to the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

Dragee cores can be provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions can be used which can optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active peptides compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include but are not limited to push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as e.g. lactose binders such as e.g. starches and or lubricants such as e.g. talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active peptides compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of e.g. tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

For administration by inhalation the compositions for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the peptides compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The compositions of the present invention can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compositions of the present invention can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection.

Depot injections can be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the peptides compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

In transdermal administration the compositions of the present invention for example can be applied to a plaster or can be applied by transdermal therapeutic systems that are consequently supplied to the organism.

The compositions of the present invention can also be administered in combination with other active ingredients such as for example adjuvants protease inhibitors or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein.

In some embodiments the disintegrant component comprises one or more of croscarmellose sodium carmellose calcium crospovidone alginic acid sodium alginate potassium alginate calcium alginate an ion exchange resin an effervescent system based on food acids and an alkaline carbonate component clay talc starch pregelatinized starch sodium starch glycolate cellulose floc carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose calcium silicate a metal carbonate sodium bicarbonate calcium citrate or calcium phosphate.

In some embodiments the diluent component comprises one or more of mannitol lactose sucrose maltodextrin sorbitol xylitol powdered cellulose microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethylcellulose carboxyethylcellulose methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose methylhydroxyethylcellulose starch sodium starch glycolate pregelatinized starch a calcium phosphate a metal carbonate a metal oxide or a metal aluminosilicate.

In some embodiments the optional lubricant component when present comprises one or more of stearic acid metallic stearate sodium stearyl fumarate fatty acid fatty alcohol fatty acid ester glyceryl behenate mineral oil vegetable oil paraffin leucine silica silicic acid talc propylene glycol fatty acid ester polyethoxylated castor oil polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyalkylene glycol polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty ester polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether polyethoxylated sterol polyethoxylated castor oil polyethoxylated vegetable oil or sodium chloride.

This invention and embodiments illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples. The present invention is described in connection with the following examples which are set forth for the purposes of illustration only. In the examples optically active protected amino acids in the L configuration are used except where specifically noted. The following Examples set forth suitable methods of synthesizing the novel GHRH agonists by the solid phase technique.

Synthesis of N Me Tyr Ala Asp Ala Ile Fpa5 Thr Gln Ser Tyr Arg Orn Var Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Lue Gln Asp Ile Nle Asp Agmor N Me Tyr Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 Peptide 20103 

The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Two methods have been used for the synthesis of peptides having Agm at the C terminus. In one case the starting material of the synthesis is Boc agmatine NG sulfonyl phenoxyacetyl MBHA Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin with a substitution of 0.3 mmol g which was obtained commercially from California Peptide Research Inc. Napa Calif. . The synthesis of this resin is well known in the art. Briefly Boc Agm SPA MBHA resin 1.67 g 0.50 mmol is pre swollen in DCM and then the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 2 are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. In another case Agm sulfonyl polystyrene PS resin is used 1 DVB 100 200 mesh 0.74 mmol g American Peptide Company Sunnyvale Calif. . Briefly Agm sulfonyl PS resin 680 mg 0.50 mmol is neutralized with 5 DIEA in DCM and washed according to the protocol described in Table 2. The solution of Boc Asp OcHx OH 475 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized resin and DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. Then the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 2 are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment in both cases and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from NovaBiochem Advanced Chemtech Bachem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 ul 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 mL m cresol and 5 mL hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 68 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph equipped with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 A pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. . Linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B is used with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN and the flow rate is 0.2 mL min. Purification is performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0. 68 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 18 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco Discovery C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 20105 Peptide 20107 Peptide 20109 Peptide 20110 Peptide 20111 Peptide 20113 Peptide 20115 Peptide 20350 Peptide 20351 Peptide 20356 Peptide 20357 Peptide 20358 Peptide 20359 Peptide 20360 Peptide 20361 Peptide 20363 Peptide 20367 Peptide 20370 Peptide 20371 Peptide 20372 Peptide 20373 Peptide 20374 Peptide 20375 Peptide 20376 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 20103 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence and acyl moieties at their N termini. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20105 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20107 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr1 Fpa Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20109 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20110 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20111 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20113 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20115 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Fpa5 Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20117 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20350 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20351 the chemical structure of which Ac N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Ac N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20356 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20357 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala N Me Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc N Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20358 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala N Me Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc N Me Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20359 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20360 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20361 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20367 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20370 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20371 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20372 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20373 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20374 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20375 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 20376 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Agm hGHRH 1 29 the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the Agm SO PS resin Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

HF cleavage and deprotection and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 20105 Peptide 20107 Peptide 20109 Peptide 20110 Peptide 20111 Peptide 20113 Peptide 20115 Peptide 20350 Peptide 20351 Peptide 20356 Peptide 357 Peptide 20358 Peptide 20359 Peptide 20360 Peptide 20361 Peptide 20363 Peptide 20367 Peptide 20370 Peptide 20371 Peptide 20372 Peptide 20373 Peptide 20374 Peptide 20375 Peptide 20376 are done as described in the case of Peptide 20103. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

Dat D Ala Asp Ala Ile Phe Thr Asn Ser Tyr Arg Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle Asp Arg Amc NH Peptide 21300 Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH. The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Briefly para methylbenzhydrylamine MBHA resin 100 200 mesh 1 DVB 0.7 mmol g Advanced Chemtech Louisville Ky. 350 mg 0.50 mmol is neutralized with 5 DIEA in DCM and washed according to the protocol described in Table 2. The solution of Boc Amc OH 390 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized MBHA resin and DIC 235 l 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After the completion of the coupling reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 2 are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH. These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Novabiochem Advanced Chemtech Bachem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free. The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 mL m cresol and 5 mL hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 130 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph equipped with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. . Linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B is used with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN and the flow rate is 0.2 mL min. Purification is performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0. 130 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 28 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco Discovery C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 21301 Peptide 21303 Peptide 21304 Peptide 21305 Peptide 21306 Peptide 21307 Peptide 21308 Peptide 21309 Peptide 21310 Peptide 21311 Peptide 22325 Peptide 22326 Peptide 22327 Peptide 22328 Peptide 22329 Peptide 22330 Peptide 22331 Peptide 22332 Peptide 22334 Peptide 22335 Peptide 22336 Peptide 22337 Peptide 23250 Peptide 23251 Peptide 23252 Peptide 23253 Peptide 23254 Peptide 23255 Peptide 23256 Peptide 23257 Peptide 23258 Peptide 23259 Peptide 23260 Peptide 23261 Peptide 23262 Peptide 23263 Peptide 23264 Peptide 23265 Peptide 24340 Peptide 24341 Peptide 24342 Peptide 24344 Peptide 24345 Peptide 24346 Peptide 24347 Peptide 24348 Peptide 25501 Peptide 25502 Peptide 25503 Peptide 25504 Peptide 25506 Peptide 25508 Peptide 25516 Peptide 26802 Peptide 26803 Peptide 2680 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 20300 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence and or different alpha or omega amino acid moieties at their C termini. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21301 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21303 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21304 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21305 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21306 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21307 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21308 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21309 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21310 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 21311 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Amc OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22325 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22326 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22327 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22328 the chemical structure of which Ac Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Ac Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22329 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22330 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22331 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22332 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22334 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22335 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22336 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 22337 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Cpa Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Apa OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Cpa OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23250 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23251 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23252 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23253 the chemical structure of which Dat Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23254 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23255 the chemical structure of which Dat Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23256 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23257 the chemical structure of which Dat Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23258 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23259 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23260 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23261 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23262 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23263 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23264 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 23265 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Har Tos OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24340 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24341 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24342 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24344 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24345 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24346 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24347 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 24348 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Aha OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25501 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25502 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25503 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Abu Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Abu OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25504 the chemical structure of which Dat D Abu Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Abu OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25506 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Abu Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Abu OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25508 the chemical structure of which Tfa Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 25516 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 26802 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Thr His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Ada hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 26803 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Ada hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc His Bom OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 26804 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Ada hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Ada OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

HF cleavage and deprotection and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 21301 Peptide 21303 Peptide 21304 Peptide 21305 Peptide 21306 Peptide 21307 Peptide 21308 Peptide 21309 Peptide 21310 Peptide 21311 Peptide 22325 Peptide 22326 Peptide 22327 Peptide 22328 Peptide 22329 Peptide 22330 Peptide 22331 Peptide 22332 Peptide 22334 Peptide 22335 Peptide 22336 Peptide 22337 Peptide 23250 Peptide 23251 Peptide 23252 Peptide 23253 Peptide 23254 Peptide 23255 Peptide 23256 Peptide 23257 Peptide 23258 Peptide 23259 Peptide 23260 Peptide 23261 Peptide 23262 Peptide 23263 Peptide 23264 Peptide 23265 Peptide 24340 Peptide 24341 Peptide 24342 Peptide 24344 Peptide 24345 Peptide 24346 Peptide 24347 Peptide 24348 Peptide 25501 Peptide 25502 Peptide 25503 Peptide 25504 Peptide 25506 Peptide 25508 Peptide 25516 Peptide 26802 Peptide 26803 Peptide 2680 are done as described in the case of Peptide 21300. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

Dat D Ala Asp Ala Ile Phe Thr Asn Ser Tyr Arg Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle Asp Arg NH CH Peptide 27400 . Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CHThe synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Briefly 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Nova Biochem La Jolla Calif. 750 mg 0.50 mmol is deprotected with 20 piperidine in DMF for 5 and 15 minutes and washed according to the protocol described in Table 3. The solution of Fmoc Arg Pbf OH 975 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF is shaken with the washed resin and DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After washing the resin three times with DMF the coupling reaction was repeated as described above. After the repeated coupling and after the completion of the reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 3 are performed in order to remove the Fmoc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Novabiochem Advanced Chemtech Bachem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Fmoc Asn Trt OH and Fmoc Gln Trt OH which are coupled with HBTU reagent.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 2.5 mL cleavage cocktail 94 TFA 3 HO 1.5 m cresol and 1.5 phenol at room temperature for 3 hours. To induce peptide precipitation the cleavage mixture is added dropwise to cold preferably 20 C. ether. The precipitated material is collected by filtration or centrifugation and is washed three times with cold ether. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 118 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph equipped with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. . Linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B is used with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN and the flow rate is 0.2 mL min. Purification is performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0. 118 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 19 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco Discovery C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 27401 Peptide 27403 Peptide 27404 Peptide 27405 Peptide 27406 Peptide 27407 Peptide 27408 Peptide 27409 Peptide 27410 Peptide 27411 Peptide 412 Peptide 27413 Peptide 27414 Peptide 27415 Peptide 27416 Peptide 27417 Peptide 27418 Peptide 27419 Peptide 27422 Peptide 27423 Peptide 27424 Peptide 27425 Peptide 27440 Peptide 27441 Peptide 27442 Peptide 27443 Peptide 27444 Peptide 27445 Peptide 27446 Peptide 27447 Peptide 27448 Peptide 27449 Peptide 27450 Peptide 27451 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 27400 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27401 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl Am resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27403 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27404 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspCOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27405 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NHCH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27406 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27407 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AsptOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27408 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspODBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27409 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27410 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27411 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27412 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27413 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AsptOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27414 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Gab OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27415 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Gab OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBifyOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27416 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27417 the chemical structure of which Ac Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Ac Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27418 the chemical structure of which Ac Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Ac Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27419 the chemical structure of which Ac Tyr Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Ac Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27422 the chemical structure of which N Me D Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27423 the chemical structure of which N Me D Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27424 the chemical structure of which Dat Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27425 the chemical structure of which N Me D Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27440 the chemical structure of which Dat Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBiO OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27441 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27442 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27443 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr Orn Abu Orn Nle D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27444 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspCOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27445 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27446 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp D Arg hGHRH 1 29 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27447 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Apa OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBifyOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27448 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Aha OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27449 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Amc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspfOBifyOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27450 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Har Pbf OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 27451 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Apa OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp BuVOH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

TFA cleavage and deprotection with the cleavage cocktail and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 27401 Peptide 27403 Peptide 27404 Peptide 27405 Peptide 27406 Peptide 27407 Peptide 27408 Peptide 27409 Peptide 27410 Peptide 27411 Peptide 27412 Peptide 27413 Peptide 27414 Peptide 27415 Peptide 27416 Peptide 27417 Peptide 27418 Peptide 27419 Peptide 27422 Peptide 27423 Peptide 27424 Peptide 27425 Peptide 27440 Peptide 27441 Peptide 27442 Peptide 27443 Peptide 27444 Peptide 27445 Peptide 27446 Peptide 27447 Peptide 27448 Peptide 27449 Peptide 27450 Peptide 27451 are done as described in the case of Peptide 27400. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

N Me Tyr D Ala Asp Ala Ile Phe Thr Gln Ser Tyr Arg Orn Val Leu Abu Gln Leu Ser Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle Asp Arg NH CH CH Peptide 28420 N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH. The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Briefly 3 Ethyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Nova Biochem La Jolla Calif. 610 mg 0.50 mmol is deprotected with 20 piperidine in DMF for 5 and 15 minutes and washed according to the protocol described in Table 3. The solution of Fmoc Arg Pbf OH 975 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF is shaken with the washed resin and DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After washing the resin three times with DMF the coupling reaction was repeated as described above. After the repeated coupling and after the completion of the reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 3 are performed in order to remove the Fmoc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Novabiochem Advanced Chemtech Bachem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxy terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Fmoc Asn Trt OH and Fmoc Gln Trt OH which are coupled with HBTU reagent.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 2.5 mL of cleavage cocktail 94 TFA 3 HO 1.5 m cresol and 1.5 phenol at room temperature for 3 hours. To induce peptide precipitation the cleavage mixture is added dropwise to cold preferably 20 C. ether. The precipitated material is collected by filtration or centrifugation and is washed three times with cold ether. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 110 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph equipped with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with C18 silica gel 300 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. . Linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B is used with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN and the flow rate is 0.2 mL min. Purification is performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0. 110 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Csilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 16 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supelco Discovery C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 28421 Peptide 28430 Peptide 28431 Peptide 28460 Peptide 28461 Peptide 28462 Peptide 28463 Peptide 28464 Peptide 28465 Peptide 28466 Peptide 28467 Peptide 28468 Peptide 28469 Peptide 28470 Peptide 28471 Peptide 28472 Peptide 28473 Peptide 28474 Peptide 28475 Peptide 28476 Peptide 28477 Peptide 28478 Peptide 28479 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 28460 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28421 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspODBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28430 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28431 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Thr Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28460 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspCOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28462 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28463 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28464 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28465 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu J OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28466 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28467 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspfOBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28468 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspCOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28469 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28470 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28471 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspODBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28472 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Fpa5 Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AspCOBu OH Fmoc Gln OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28473 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc AsptOBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Fpa5 OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28474 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp hGHRH 1 29 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc D Arg Pbf OH Fmoc AspODBuVOH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Asn Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28475 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Apa OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28476 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Aha hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Aha OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28477 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Amc hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Amc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28478 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Har hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Har Pbf OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp BuVOH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp Bu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 28479 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Gln His Orn Abu His Orn Nle Asp Apa hGHRH 1 30 NH CH CH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the deprotected 3 Methyl Fmoc amino methyl indol 1 yl acetyl AM resin Fmoc Apa OH Fmoc Arg Pbf OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Nle OH Fmoc Ile OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Ser tBu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Abu OH Fmoc Leu OH Fmoc Val OH Fmoc Orn Boc OH Fmoc His Trt OH Fmoc Tyr tBu OH Fmoc Ser Trt OH Fmoc Gln Trt OH Fmoc Thr tBu OH Fmoc Phe OH Fmoc Ala OH Fmoc Asp OBu OH Fmoc D Ala OH Fmoc N Me Tyr tBu OH.

TFA cleavage and deprotection with the cleavage cocktail and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 28421 Peptide 28430 Peptide 28431 Peptide 28460 Peptide 28461 Peptide 28462 Peptide 28463 Peptide 28464 Peptide 28465 Peptide 28466 Peptide 28467 Peptide 28468 Peptide 28469 Peptide 28470 Peptide 28471 Peptide 28472 Peptide 28473 Peptide 28474 Peptide 28475 Peptide 28476 Peptide 28477 Peptide 28478 Peptide 28479 are done as described in the case of Peptide 28420. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

Dat D Ala Asp Ala Ile Phe Thr Asn Ser Tyr Arg Orn Var Leu Abu Gln Leu Leu Ala Arg Orn Leu Leu Gln Asp Ile Nle Ser Arg Gln Gab NH Peptide 29702 Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH. The synthesis is conducted in a stepwise manner using manual solid phase peptide synthesis equipment. Briefly para methylbenzhydrylamine MBHA resin Bachem King of Prussia Pa. 720 mg 0.50 mmol is pre swollen in DCM and neutralized with 5 DIEA in DCM and washed according to the protocol described in Table I. The solution of Boc Gab OH 265 mg 1.5 mmol in DMF DCM 1 1 is shaken with the neutralized resin and DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol in a manual solid phase peptide synthesis apparatus for 1 hour. After the completion of the coupling reaction is proved by negative ninhydrin test the deprotection and neutralization protocols described in Table 2 are performed in order to remove the Boc protecting group and prepare the peptide resin for coupling of the next amino acid. The synthesis is continued and the peptide chain is built stepwise by coupling the following protected amino acids in the indicated order on the resin to obtain the desired peptide sequence Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

These protected amino acid residues also commonly available from Novabiochem Advanced Chemtech Bachem and Peptides International are represented above according to a well accepted convention. The suitable protecting group for the side chain functional group of particular amino acids appears in parentheses. The OH groups in the above formulae indicate that the carboxyl terminus of each residue is free.

The protected amino acids 1.5 mmol each are coupled with DIC 235 L 1.5 mmol with the exceptions of Boc Asn OH and Boc Gln OH which are coupled with their preformed HOBt esters.

In order to cleave the peptide from the resin and deprotect it a portion of 250 mg of the dried peptide resin is stirred with 0.5 mL m cresol and 5 mL hydrogen fluoride HF at 0 C. for 2 hours. After evaporation of the HF under a stream of nitrogen and in vacuo the residue is washed with dry diethyl ether and ethyl acetate. The cleaved and deprotected peptide is dissolved in 50 acetic acid and separated from the resin by filtration. After dilution with water and lyophilization 109 mg crude product is obtained.

The crude peptide is checked by analytical HPLC using a Hewlett Packard Model HP 1090 liquid chromatograph equipped with a Supelco Discovery HS C18 reversed phase column 2.1 mm 5 cm packed with Csilica gel 300 pore size 3 m particle size Supelco Bellefonte Pa. . Linear gradient elution e.g. 40 70 B is used with a solvent system consisting of A 0.1 aqueous TFA and B 0.1 TFA in 70 aqueous MeCN and the flow rate is 0.2 mL min. Purification is performed on a Beckman System Gold HPLC system Beckman Coulter Inc. Brea Calif. equipped with 127P solvent Module UV VIS Detector model 166P Computer workstation with CPU Monitor and printer and 32 Karat software version 3.0. 109 mg of crude peptide is dissolved in AcOH HO stirred filtered and applied on an XBridge Prep OBD reversed phase column 4.6 250 mm packed with Cisilica gel 300 A pore size 5 m particle size Waters Co. Milford Mass. . The column is eluted with a solvent system described above in a linear gradient mode e.g. 40 60 B in 120 min flow rate 12 mL min. The eluent is monitored at 220 nm and fractions are examined by analytical HPLC. Fractions with purity higher than 95 are pooled and lyophilized to give 27 mg pure product. The analytical HPLC is carried out on a Supeico Discovery C18 reversed phase column described above using isocratic elution with a solvent system described above with a flow rate of 0.2 mL min. The peaks are monitored at 220 and 280 nm. The product is judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Molecular mass is checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid composition is confirmed by amino acid analysis.

In accordance with the above procedure Peptide 29701 Peptide 29703 Peptide 29704 Peptide 29706 Peptide 29708 Peptide 29710 Peptide 29720 Peptide 29721 Peptide 29722 Peptide 29723 Peptide 29724 are synthesized in the same manner as Peptide 29702 except that these peptides also contain other amino acid substitutions in the peptide sequence and acyl moieties at their N termini. The details for these syntheses are set forth below.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29701 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc NLe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr Bzl OH.

For the synthesis of peptide 29703 the chemical structure of which is N Me Tyr Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc NLe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2ClZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr Bzl OH.

For the synthesis of peptide 29704 the chemical structure of which is Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc NLe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2ClZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr Bzl OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29706 the chemical structure of which Tfa Tyr D Abu Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Abu OH Tfa Tyr OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29708 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29710 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29720 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29721 the chemical structure of which Dat D Ala Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Dat OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29722 the chemical structure of which Tfa Tyr D Abu Gln Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Gln OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Phe OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Abu OH Tfa Tyr OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29723 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Asn OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

For the synthesis of Peptide 29724 the chemical structure of which N Me Tyr D Ala Fpa5 Ala Orn Abu Orn Nle Asp Gln Gab hGHRH 1 30 NH the following protected amino acids are coupled in the indicated order on the MBHA resin Boc Gab OH Boc Gln OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Nle OH Boc Ile OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc Gln OH Boc Leu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Ala OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Leu OH Boc Gln OH Boc Abu OH Boc Leu OH Boc Val OH Boc Orn 2ClZ OH Boc Arg Tos OH Boc Tyr 2BrZ OH Boc Ser Bzl OH Boc Ala OH Boc Thr Bzl OH Boc Fpa5 OH Boc Ile OH Boc Ala OH Boc Asp OcHx OH Boc D Ala OH Boc N Me Tyr 2BrZ OH.

HF cleavage and deprotection and subsequent purification by semipreparative HPLC of Peptide 29701 Peptide 29703 Peptide 29704 Peptide 29706 Peptide 29708 Peptide 29710 Peptide 29720 Peptide 29721 Peptide 29722 Peptide 29723 Peptide 29724 are done as described in the case of Peptide 21300. The purified compounds are judged to be substantially 95 pure by analytical HPLC. Their molecular masses are checked by electrospray mass spectrometry and the expected amino acid compositions are confirmed by amino acid analysis.

Growth hormone releasing activity. Growth hormone releasing was assayed by using a superfused rat pituitary cell system as described in S. Vigh and A. V. Schally Peptides 5 Suppl 241 347 1984. The new synthetic peptide analog of hGHRH P20356 and JI 38 as control were administered for 3 minutes 1 mL perfusate at 1 nM concentration as shown below. Fractions of 1 ml are collected and the GH content in each was determined by ELISA. Peptide P20356 was about 3 times more potent in vitro than JI 38. Table 4 shows GH releasing effects of GHRH agonist P20356 MR 356 and JI 38 in superfused rat pituitary cells.

Pituitary cells from 2 male rats were used for each channel of the superfusion system. The cells were exposed to 3 min pulses of the new GHRH agonists or to JI 38 as standard every 30 min. Outflowing samples of each channel 1 ml were collected every 3 min and GH levels were determined by ELISA.

Receptor binding assay. Ligand competition assay with I labeled His Nle hGHRH 1 32 NHwas used to determine the binding affinities of the novel hGHRH agonists to membrane receptors of rat anterior pituitary cells. The methods used have been described in detail Halmos G et al. Receptor 3 87 97 1993 . Briefly radioidonated His Nle hGHRH 1 32 NHis prepared by the chloramine T method. In competitive binding analyses I labeled His Nle hGHRH 1 32 NH 0.2 nM was displaced by the GHRH analogs at 10 10M. The final binding affinities were calculated using the LIGAND PC computerized curve fitting program. Relative affinities were compared to hGHRH 1 29 and or analog JI 38 Izdebski J et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 92 4872 4876 1995 and calculated as the ratio of ICof the tested peptide to the ICof the standard. ICis the dose of the tested peptides causing 50 inhibition of specific binding to receptors.

Preparation of human pituitary membrane fraction and receptor binding of GHRH agonists were performed by using a sensitive in vitro ligand competition assay based on binding of I labeled JV 1 42 to human pituitary membrane homogenates. Normal human pituitaries were purchased from the National Hormone and Peptide Program A. F. Parlow Los Angeles County Harbor UCLA Medical Center Torrance Calif. . Briefly in competitive binding analysis I labeled JV 1 42 0.2 nM was displaced by GHRH agonists at 10to 10M.

The final binding affinities were expressed as ICvalues and were calculated by using the LIGAND PC computerized curve fitting program of Munson and Rodbard as modified by McPherson.

The results of these experiments are given in the Table 5. ICvalues of the best agonists were in the 0.01 0.09 nM range. Based on the receptor binding results all the new GHRH agonists exceeded the binding affinity of the reference peptide JI 38. Some of these new GHRH agonists tested showed the highest GHRH receptor binding affinity their ICvalues being 45 406 times lower than that of GHRH 1 29 . Based on its ICvalue GHRH agonist P20356 showed 171 times higher binding affinity than the reference compound JI 38.

Preparation Preparation of human pituitary membrane fraction and receptor binding of GHRH agonists were performed by using a sensitive in vitro ligand competition assay based on binding of I labeled His Nle hGHRH 1 32 NHto human pituitary membrane homogenates. Normal human pituitaries were purchased from the National Hormone and Peptide Program A. F. Parlow Los Angeles County Harbor UCLA Medical Center Torrance Calif. .

Briefly in competitive binding analysis His I Tyr Nle hGHRH 1 32 NH 0.2 nM was displaced by GHRH agonists at 10to 10M. The final binding affinities were expressed as ICvalues and were calculated by using the LIGAND PC computerized curve fitting program of Munson and Rodbard as modified by McPherson.

The results of these experiments are given in the Table 6. ICvalues of the best agonists were in the 0.04 0.09 nM range. Based on the receptor binding results all new GHRH agonists exceeded the binding affinity of reference peptides JI 34 JI 36 and JI 38. Some of these new GHRH agonists showed the highest GHRH receptor binding affinity their ICvalues being 21 48 times lower than that of the GHRH agonist JI 38.

Preparation of human pituitary membrane fraction and receptor binding of GHRH agonists were performed by using a sensitive in vitro ligand competition assay based on binding of I labeled JV 1 42 to human pituitary membrane homogenates. Normal human pituitaries were purchased from the National Hormone and Peptide Program A. F. Parlow Los Angeles County Harbor UCLA Medical Center Torrance Calif. .

Briefly in competitive binding analysis I labeled JV 1 42 0.2 nM was displaced by GHRH agonists at 10to 10M. The final binding affinities were expressed as ICvalues and were calculated by using the LIGAND PC computerized curve fitting program of Munson and Rodbard as modified by McPherson

The results of these experiments are given in the Table 7. ICvalues of the best agonists were in the 0.16 0.87 nM range. Based on the receptor binding results most of the new GHRH agonists exceeded the binding affinity of reference peptides JI 38. Some of these new GHRH agonists showed 5 27 times higher binding potency than GHRH agonist JI 38. See Table 7.

In vivo tests on endocrine activity of new GHRH agonists Intravenous administration . For in vivo tests based on intravenous administration adult male Sprague Dawley rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital 6 mg 100 g b.w. and GHRH agonists were injected 20 minutes after the injection of pentobarbital. Blood samples were taken from the jugular vein pretreated level immediately after hGHRH 1 29 NHinjection as a control or after hGHRH analogs injection. Blood samples were taken from the jugular vein 5 15 and 30 minutes after the injection. The blood samples were centrifuged plasma was removed and the GH level was measured by ELISA. The results were expressed as potency relative to hGHRH 1 29 NH Table 8 .

Subcutaneous Administration. Adult male rats were used and anesthetized with pentobarbital 6 mg 100 g b.w. by i.p. injection. 20 minutes after the injection of pentobarbital blood samples were taken from the jugular vein pretreated level immediately after hGHRH 1 29 NH as a control or hGHRH analogs were injected subcutaneously s.c . Blood samples were taken from the jugular vein 5 15 and or 30 minutes after the injection. The blood samples were centrifuged plasma was removed and the GH level was measured by ELISA. The results are summarized in terms of potency in Table 9.

Analysis of endocrine tests Following intravenous administration the new analogs stimulated growth hormone levels to a greater extent than hGHRH 1 29 NHor JI 38. The effect was long lasting which indicated that the analogs have higher receptor affinity and also increased peptidase resistance. The most potent analogs when administered i.v. were P 27403 and P 25502. Following subcutaneous administration the analogs that stimulated greater growth hormone levels than hGHRH or JI 38 were P 22326 P 20350 P 20356 P 27403 P 27404 P 27409 P 25501 and P 25502.

Results of i.v. and s.c. administration showed different biological activity patterns. Analogs given by i.v. administration may be subjected to degredation in the blood stream. Analogs given s.c. could be potentially degraded by peptidase at the site of injection. Thus it is believed that activity of the peptide may depend on favorable transport properties suitable binding to plasma proteins and peptide stability. The above findings therefore indicate that the analogs showing better activity when given subcutaneously are resistant to local degradation at the injection site and they may also be less susceptible to enzyme degradation in the blood stream. In conclusion the most potent analogs when administered i.v. were P 27403 and P 25502. Following subcutaneous administration the analogs that stimulated greater growth hormone levels than hGHRH or JI 38 were P 22326 P 20350 P 20356 P 27403 P 27404 P 27409 P 25501 and P 25502.

Rat insulinoma cells INS 1 were cultured in RPMI Medium 1640 PAA containing 2 mM L glutamine 10 FBS 1 mM Na pyruvate 50 M 2 mercaptoethanol and 100 U mL penicillin streptomycin Gibco at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator. Medium was exchanged every second day and cells were passaged once per week. INS 1 cells were treated with the GHRH agonist P 27403 at concentrations from 10to 10M for 24 hrs and was analyzed for viability and apoptosis. Viability was assessed using CellTiter 96 AQueous One Solution Cell Proliferation Assay Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions. Apoptosis was assayed by determination of caspase 3 7 activity using Caspase Glo 3 7 Assay Promega according to manufacturer s instructions. Exposure to P 27403 resulted in increased viability at all concentrations used as compared to control DMSO . A significant effect was seen at a concentration of 10M of P 27403 with an improvement of 15 in viability as compared to control . In addition treatment of INS 1 cells with P 27403 resulted in an overall reduction of apoptosis as assessed by decreased caspase 3 7 activity . The most effective concentrations of P 27403 that provided significantly reduced apoptosis as compared to control were 10and 10M.

For determination of proliferation activity BrdU incorporation was performed in INS 1 cells following exposure to P 27403. Proliferation was measured using BrdU Cell Proliferation Assay Millipore following the manufacturer s description. The maximal enhancement in proliferation rate of 16 compared to control was found at 10M concentration of P 27403 .

Pancreatic islets were isolated from female Wistar rats as described in prior art and according to guidelines established by the University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Briefly animals were anesthetized by 3 isoflurane and digestion solution Collagenase V Sigma Aldrich was injected via the pancreatic duct. Islets were isolated by discontinuous Ficoll gradient centrifugation Sigma Aldrich . Isolated islets were cultured in RPMI 1640 PAA supplemented with 10 FBS at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere prior to further experimentation. Yield and purity of islets were determined by microscopic sizing after staining with dithizone Sigma Aldrich as previously described.

Female Wistar rats were used as adrenal donors according to guidelines established by the University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. After euthanization the adrenal glands were rapidly removed and kept in PBS at 4 C. After removal of adipose tissue the capsule was removed. The tissue was then incubated at 37 C. in PBS containing collagenase type II 2.0 mg ml Sigma Aldrich and DNase 0.15 mg ml Sigma Aldrich . After incubation for 30 min the digestion was stopped by adding cold PBS. The dispersed cells were filtered through a 100 m restrainer and centrifuged at 1200 g for 5 min at 4 C. Erythrocyte lysis buffer was added to the cell pellet and incubated for 5 min at room temperature. After two washing steps cells were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in RPMI 1640 containing 10 FBS for culture at 37 C. in 5 COatmosphere.

Isolated adrenal cells were plated in a 24 well tissue culture plate at a density of 150 000 cells per well. After 2 days media were exchanged and P 27403 10M or DMSO was added to the fresh media. For the co culture 150 islet equivalents were seeded in inserts 1.0 m pore size Greiner Bio One and treated with P 27403 10M or 0.1 DMSO for 24 hrs prior to further assessments.

Isolated rat islets and co cultured islets were treated with P 27403 at a concentration of 10M or with 0.1 DMSO as control for 24 hrs and then analyzed for viability. Treatment with P 27403 induced an increase of islet viability of 31 as compared to control. When co cultured with adrenal cells alone islets considerably demonstrated improved viability and in addition a significant improvement occurred when GHRH agonist P 27403 was added to the co culture. With this combination islet viability improved by 55 23 as compared to control .

NOD SCID mice were used as islet recipients following guidelines established by the University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Diabetes was induced by single intraperitoneal injection of 180 mg kg STZ Sigma . Serum glucose was monitored using a commercial glucometer AccuChek Aviva Roche . Animals were considered diabetic if non fasting blood glucose was 25 mmol L for at least two consecutive days. For transplantation isolated rat islets were cultured for 48 hrs and samples of 300 islet equivalents were transplanted underneath the left kidney capsule n 4 or into the adrenal gland n 4 . For intra adrenal transplantation the left adrenal was exposed and the islets concentrated in a total volume of 10 l were injected directly into the adrenal using a microtiter syringe and a blunted needle . Blood glucose levels were measured daily throughout the observation period of 35 days. On day 10 an intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test ipGTT was performed to challenge the islet grafts. Blood glucose levels were recorded before injection and 15 30 45 60 90 and 120 min following glucose injection 3 g kg . The restoration and maintenance of normoglycemia due to islet graft function was verified by removal of the graft bearing organ on day 30. Animals were then metabolically followed for another 5 days before euthanization. The animal experiments and housing were in accordance with institutional guidelines and German animal regulations.

The procedure of islet transplantation into the adrenal was technically feasible and did not cause any significant bleeding or macroscopically apparent injury of the adrenal tissue. During the procedure the animals did not show any circulatory disturbance due to adrenal manipulation. All animals showed a rapid decrease in blood glucose levels and reached normoglycemia within a few days after transplantation without any difference between the adrenal transplantation site n 4 compared to the standard kidney capsule transplantation model n 4 . After removing the islet grafts by unilateral nephrectomy or adrenalectomy respectively the animals showed an immediate recurrence of hyperglycemia. On day 10 post transplantation an ipGTT was performed with 3 g kg body weight of D glucose. All animals showed a swift increase in blood glucose followed by a rapid normalization to reach target blood glucose levels after two hours . The intra adrenally transplanted animals were not inferior to the standard model regarding blood glucose kinetics.

The graft bearing kidneys and adrenals were explanted on day 30 after transplantation and fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde for 10 hrs stored in 30 sucrose for 24 hrs embedded in tissue freezing medium and frozen at 80 C. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on 10 m cryosections. As primary antibody guinea pig anti insulin at 1 100 polyclonal ab7842 abcam was used. After washing in PBS with 0.5 Tween goat anti guinea pig Alexa Fluor488 code 106 545 003 Jackson Laboratories at a concentration of 1 500 was applied as secondary antibody. Immunofluorescence microscopy was performed on Zeiss Axiovert 200M with AxioCamMRc5. Morphologic analysis of the retrieved islet containing adrenal glands showed nearly intact adrenal cell composition with islet clusters integrated mostly in the cortex. No leukocyte infiltration hemorrhage signs of necrosis or apoptotic cells were observed. Immunostaining of insulin revealed intense cytosolic staining and intact islet morphology indicating viability of graft .

INS 1 cells were grown for 72 hours before experimentation. Cells were treated with different GHRH agonist peptides MR 356 P 20356 MR 361 P 20361 MR 367 P 20367 MR 403 P 27403 MR 409 P 27409 MR 502 P 25502 at different concentrations 10 10M or with 0.1 vol vol DMSO as control for 24 h 48 h and 72 h. Viability was assessed using CellTiter 96 AQueous One Solution Cell Proliferation Assay Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions. Treatment of INS 1 cells with GHRH agonist peptides for 72 h improved cell viability. Cell viability was expressed as percent of cells treated with control DMSO .

INS 1 cells were grown for 72 h before experimentation. Cells were treated with various GHRH agonist peptides at different concentrations or with 0.1 vol vol DMSO as control for 24 h 48 h and 72 h. Apoptosis was assayed by determination of caspase 3 7 activity using Caspase Glo 3 7 Assay Promega according to the manufacturer s instructions. GHRH agonist peptides significantly inhibited apoptosis of INS 1 at 72 h when compared to control .

INS 1 cells were grown for 72 h before experimentation. Cells were treated with GHRH agonists MR356 MR367 and MR403 at different concentrations or with 0.1 vol vol DMSO as control for 24 h 48 h and 72 h. Proliferation was measured using BrdU Cell Proliferation Assay Millipore following the manufacturer s description. MR367 and MR403 significantly induced cell proliferation in INS 1 cells when compared to control .

Islets were cultured either alone or in coculture with adrenal cells n 4 and treated with GHRH agonist MR403 10M for 24 h. Addition of GHRH agonist to islets alone resulted in an increase of viability and further significant improvement was seen in coculture conditions 56 compared with control . P

