---

title: Internet data mining method and system
abstract: A method for automatically acquiring a set of data opens a searchable Internet database; initiates an automated timed search of each one of a plurality of records, each record in the plurality of record includes common criteria with the other records; retrieves information associated with the searched record; and provides the retrieved information in a desired format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122728&OS=09122728&RS=09122728
owner: 
number: 09122728
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 234 029 filed Sep. 19 2008 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 600 966 on Dec. 3 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 60 973 990 filed on Sep. 20 2007 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to data mining of searchable Internet databases. In particular the present invention relates accessing target data by searching a record set having common criteria associated with each record in the set.

Data available on the Internet is searchable using various search engines. However search result data may not be useful in the form presented or may only be useful after the user manually retrieves the data by copying and pasting the information or by manually typing the data into another document.

Using the Internet to identify people places or businesses in a specific geographical location is difficult because search strings entered in search engines typically result in a myriad of data being presented to the user some of which may not be useful. For example searching for a company having a common address may result in retrieval of data for multiple companies having the common address. In addition searching for a person or business in a specific geographical location may yield results for persons or businesses in the geographical area as well as outside of the location of interest. For each of these search results the user is required to sort through a large volume of information to identify useful information.

In addition generating lists of people places or businesses in a particular locale using the Internet as a search tool is labor intensive because each list entry needs to be entered by the user which may involve various data manipulation functions such as manual copying and pasting typing parsing and or formatting. As a result those desiring to generate a list of people and or businesses in a certain location have resorted to manual entry of phone listings from printed phone books. When places e.g. properties are to be identified a user is required to enter property search criteria one by one.

Accordingly there is a need for a system and method capable of generating lists of relevant information for people places and for businesses within a geographical area.

Various embodiments of the invention address the issues described above by providing an automated system and method for mining text data related to businesses and or consumers and or places by publicly available information on the Internet.

According to one embodiment a method for automatically acquiring a set of data includes opening a searchable Internet database initiating an automated timed search of each one of a plurality of records where for each record in the plurality of records a portion of the record comprises common criteria with the other records retrieving information associated with the searched record and providing the retrieved information in a desired format.

In another embodiment an application programming interface allowing user control includes processes for generating a record set of search criteria each record in the set comprising a portion of common criteria automatically executing in a searchable Internet database a search of each record in the record set and identifying and retrieving search results for each record searched.

These and other features and advantages of aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description where it is shown and described illustrative embodiments including best modes contemplated for carrying out the invention. As it will be realized the various aspects of the invention are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

Data mining methods in particular text mining methods of the present invention involve accessing data in an automated fashion using one or more processes that acquire target information and present the target information in a specified format. Text mining methods of the present invention may be performed in Internet and or database applications and may be used to automatically generate data sets related to consumers and or businesses. In certain embodiments publicly available information on the Internet may be retrieved and organized into databases and the data may be manipulated using extended database capabilities cross referenced using stored data or by query supplemented and or appended to other data. Furthermore the present invention may cut down on computing cycles needed server side by providing a client side data access and collection tool. Embodiments of the present invention are described further with reference to the figures.

Databases available over the Internet that may be opened for example using an application programming interface API . The databases may include Google Yahoo Yahoo people search Switchboard.com Dexonline.com WhitePages.com and or other search engines. In addition public information available through city county state or national databases websites may be opened . For example a department of motor vehicles database may be opened and used as a source of information for automatically generating a set of data such as a data set related to the type of car registered to a consumer and the value of the car. According to some implementations other searchable databases in addition to or as an alternative to searchable Internet databases may be queried. For example intranet or internal databases may be queried alone or concurrently with other databases including searchable Internet databases.

The initiated automated timed database search may be for a set of data having various types of common criteria. For example a set of public records may be searched using a common data point such as public record prefix numbers e.g. pppxxxx where ppp is a string of prefix characters specified by a user e.g. 0 to 9 A to Z or other keyboard characters and xxxx is any number of characters following the prefix generated automatically according to certain embodiments where an API automatically builds a set of records based off of the user entered common criteria. In another example prefix suffix or a group of characters within a set of records may be the common criteria specified by a user for a group of records to be searched. In one particular example when an automated timed search is initiated for land parcel IDs having a 10 digit code the first digits middle digits or last digits may be used as the user specified search criteria and all 10 digit numbers having that segment of digits will be queried. Land parcel IDs corresponding to the queried 10 digit numbers may be identified if available along with the public record associated with the land parcel ID. In another example 1 800 phone numbers or the like may be searched by entering a 1 800 prefix as the common criteria so that a record of valid 1 800 numbers may be constructed. In a further example a department of motor vehicles database may be opened and the common criteria searched may be a state and zip code which results in providing a set of data that may include the name address and vehicle information for a consumer such type of car registered to the consumer and the value of the car.

From the initiated search the search results encountered may be retrieved and saved for example as a file line of text or set of data associated with the corresponding search. Retrieving data may involve the algorithm collecting data associated with the searched and located criteria. For example once the searched for pppxxxx is found on a database the algorithm collects information associated with pppxxxx e.g. name and address. In certain embodiments the algorithm involves the use of artificial intelligence that isolates the syntax searched and by identifying this defined type of information the algorithm is able to move through the set of retrieved data and collect other relevant information separate identify the information and provide the information in an organized form. In a particular embodiment the algorithm isolates the syntax from the search results and identifies and collects data by shuttling forward or backward from the isolated syntax in the search result e.g. shuttles forwards or backwards from pppxxxx in the results page. For example the algorithm may move stepwise up to and or past other data points in order to isolate relevant data associated with pppxxxx. The algorithm may be further configured to discern what relevant items are in the result e.g. discerns that the data is a first name a last name an address a state and or a zip code associated with pppxxxx and retrieves all or a portion of the data.

One to multiple sets of data retrieved from the search may be provided according to user preferences. For example retrieved data may be presented in a software application such as an API where the data may be isolated identified parsed manipulated and or organized in a variety of ways. In a particular example multiple sets of retrieved data may be presented in a uniform fashion so that each set of data appears in the same format as the other sets.

In certain configurations retrieved data may be cross referenced for authentication validation retrieving additional related data or other purposes. Retrieved data may be compared with data stored on a pre existing database on another Internet search database or other suitable database configured for providing the proper information. Data retrieved according to some implementations of the invention may be used as search criteria for query in another database to verify that the data is current and or accurate. Retrieved data may be queried against data from a list e.g. do not call list described further below to determine if the information is suitable for a marketing list. Furthermore retrieved data may be modified or supplemented for example by cross referencing search results with demographic data and retaining retrieved data that matches the demographic targeted. In another example retrieved data may be used as a basis for a query so that for example where an initial 1 800 query yields a name and phone number but no address the name may be queried in one or more databases in order to retrieve address information and supplement the initial 1 800 query results. In yet another example DMV information may be supplemented for example by querying a vehicle type identified for a particular consumer with a blue book value search engine. Moreover retrieved data may be cross referenced for example against census data. Cross referencing retrieved data may take place at various points in the above described method including upon retrieval and or after the retrieved data is provided and may be an automated semi automated or manual process.

One embodiment that implements the method of identifies potential customers for direct mail marketing in iterative Internet searches and data is collected and provided in a mail merge format. Accordingly a method for identifying potential customers for direct mail marketing is depicted in and involves opening an Internet database having a reverse phone number lookup function initiating an automated timed reverse phone number search retrieving the data associated with the phone number and providing data in a desired mailing format.

As discussed in relation to a variety of databases may be used for identifying and generating data sets. For the purposes of generating a direct mail marketing list of potential customers an Internet based reverse phone number database may be employed by opening e.g. navigating to the website with a query function. However it will be understood that other databases may be useful in generating data sets including databases internal to a company and in this case opening may involve opening a computer application configured for accessing database on internal data stores.

Following the example of data in the Internet database is queried by initiating an automated timed reverse phone number search of a series of phone numbers having a common criteria e.g. the same prefix. The timed search may be automatically executed about once every second 1 10 1 100 or 1 5000 second. In some instances the phone numbers queried will be invalid e.g. one that is not assigned or that is unlisted and the query will automatically search a next phone number in the series of numbers.

Once a valid phone number is identified data associated with the phone number is retrieved in an application programming interface API where the data is isolated parsed and or organized in a desired way. The retrieval process involves extracting for example a first name last name cell phone home phone street address city state zip code and or e mail address. In certain implementations the retrieval process involves identifying what the particular piece of data is e.g. identifying that the data is a first name and extracting the identified data so that relevant data is retrieved. In a further implementation a plurality of data types associated with the phone number or with the query may be retrieved.

Subsequently the data is provided in a mail merge format thus facilitating direct mail marketing efforts. For example presentation of the text data may be specified by a user which allows customizable uniform presentation of the data of interest. For example a portion of the retrieved data may be presented in a label format for printing on a mailing label. In this case the retrieved data would be presented in three or more lines the first line including a first name last name and title if any the second line including a street address and unit number if any and the third line including the city state and zip code. In another example the retrieved data may be presented in a phone list so that at least a phone number and the name s of the person s associated with the phone number are provided in a list format. The text presented may be in a variety of file formats such as HTML plain text Microsoft Word and or Excel or Adobe Acrobat.

Some of the above described processes may be used with a variety of Internet search engines configured to provide access to information when a phone number is entered as the search string e.g. when the search engine allows reverse loolcup of a phone number. Furthermore according to certain implementations methods of the present invention are capable of recognizing typical as well as other less typical phone number formats e.g. where a typical 10 digit phone number has a format of aaa ppp nnnn where a is an area code digit from 0 9 p is a prefix digit from 0 9 and n is a digit from 0 9 and where non typical formats include aaa ppp mmn aaappp nnnn aaa ppp nnnn aaa pppnmm and in some instances ppp nnnn or pppnnnn. As a result some embodiments of the invention are able to isolate phone number data that is presented in a variety of formats. Furthermore 1 800 numbers or the like may be queried and these numbers may be search in typical format e.g. 1 800 999 9999 or less typical formats 1 800 999 9999.

Although consumer and or business data may be retrieved from the Internet for use in marketing and advertising applications the methods of the present invention may search publicly available information on the Internet using any a variety of types of common criteria. For example according to the method depicted in the flowchart of census data by zip code is retrieved in a series of iterative searches. According to a searchable census records Internet database is opened an automated timed search based on zip code search criteria is initiated census information associated with the requested zip code is retrieved in a user control and the census data is provided in a desired format. Data may be presented in a grid format such as the grid of which includes census data for zip codes beginning with 7. The grid of includes columns for the zip code searched latitude longitude population density per square mile housing land area water area percentage in 9grade percent never married percent in high school and percent married and is arranged in descending order according to the numbers in the housing column. The data presented in is an example of the type of data that may be collected and displayed using zip codes as common search criteria. It will be understood that additional or alternative census data may be retrieved using the method of and that search criteria other than zip code information may be entered in order to retrieve census data.

The methods and processes of the present invention may be implemented in various hardware and or software applications. provides a screenshot of text mining software that allows a user to enter parameters for creating a database of retrieved data. According to a user may enter a search string in the DB Build Search field and select the Build DataBase button . In response a record set is automatically created where a record number of the record set may be displayed in record number field and the specific information associated with the record number may be displayed in one or more customer fields e.g. home phone field . In addition the records in the record set may be scrolled through or viewed at the beginning or end of the record set by selecting arrow buttons . According to certain embodiments the record set created may be used as search criteria and when a user enters a phone number search string of aaa ppp where a is an area code digit 0 9 and p is a phone number prefix digit 0 9 of 651 646 the software creates a set of records e.g. up to 10 000 records beginning with 651 646 0000 and ending with 651 646 9999. The record set is then used as search criteria.

After record set is created consumer and or business data may be retrieved by 1 selecting the Navigate Get or Auto radio buttons 2 selecting the appropriate search engine at pull down menu e.g. Dex 3 selecting the appropriate state in state field and 4 selecting the Execute button . In this series of steps once a search engine and state field are selected a user need not re select these items each time a search is executed except when the user desires to change the search engine from pull down menu or the state in state field . According to some implementations once the Execute button is selected the method of is executed so that consumer data is automatically retrieved and presented in a user control in a desired format.

When the Navigate radio button is selected in the above steps the current record s phone number is automatically entered in the search engine the search is executed and the results are displayed in search engine window . When the Get radio button is selected subsequent to the search and the Execute button selected the results are extracted from the search engine results and placed in work area .

Alternatively when the Auto radio button is selected each phone number in record set is entered into the search engine one at a time and the results are extracted in work area . When a phone number does not have corresponding listing information available no information is extracted and the next phone number in the record set is searched. When the next phone number record with available listing information is encountered the information is extracted and provided in work area . The iterative process continues until a user chooses to stop the search process or until the iterative search process reaches the phone number 651 646 9999 and extracts and displays available corresponding listing information. From record number field shows the software conducted search is on the 78record which corresponds to 651 646 0076 displayed in Home Phone field shows search engine results for Jang in the centrally located search engine window and displays the retrieved results in work area . Each phone number record may be reviewed in the Home Phone field and the record s number e.g. Record 1 10 000 is visible in the record field.

The consumer and or business information displayed in work area may be selected for review in one or more customer fields . The data displayed may be selectively saved deleted or appended for example by selecting one or more check boxes adjacent to its corresponding customer fields . The data in the selected customer fields may be saved by selecting the Save or Save As button appended by selecting the Append button or selectively or completely deleted by selecting the Delete Current or Delete All button. In addition the database generated from record set may be attached to an existing database by selecting the DB ATTACH button may be saved as a new database by selecting the Save As button or may be cleared by selecting the Clear DB button .

In addition in a user may control the browser speed and the retrieval speed. Browser speed control may be adjusted using and buttons and grab speed control may be adjusted using and buttons . Furthermore the browser speed may vary in a range from its set browser speed e.g. 5000 ms to another user entered speed e.g. 7 seconds when the adjacent check box is selected. This function is described further below.

The present invention conducts timed searches of a set of data. According to the implementation described in the time between each record searched may be set by entering a value in browser speed field or may be adjusted by selecting the or buttons . In addition to setting the browser speed the present invention may conduct randomized timed searches. That is the browser speed between executing one search to executing the next search may be set to occur after random time increments. The search randomizer function provides advantages over search systems that search at the same browser speed because some Internet databases use virus detection software or search blocking processes that correlate searches occurring within identical periods of time with a worm or virus and block the source of the search.

In a user may enter a timed end point in time field e.g. 7 seconds and the times in the browser speed field e.g. 5000 and time field are the end points for a range of times the browser will wait between searches e.g. between 5000 ms and 7000 ms. The beginning and end point may be adjusted to a desired number and the randomness of the time between searches may be to the millisecond. Accordingly any increment falling within the range may be randomly selected by the search randomizer function in the automated query and retrieval process.

In work area selecting Populate List button populates work area selecting Empty List button removes data from work area and selecting Choose Address button highlights a particular address in work area . Once an address is selected choosing Parse button results in populating the selected data in the appropriate business address fields .

Selecting AutoMate button automatically enters the set of data into a database. Selecting Open Text button opens a text file the collected saved names and selecting Append Text button appends the opened text file to another file.

Once consumer business address data is displayed in the appropriate fields the data may be manipulated using one or more manipulation buttons. For example data that is duplicative may be removed by selecting DeDup button described further below . In populated fields all or a portion of the data presented may be deleted by selecting the Delete button or Delete All button or data may be saved by selecting the Save As button. Selecting Zip Repair button described further below fixes missing or improper zip codes. Import button imports data from a set of collected data.

Data retrieved using processes of the present invention may be duplicative of pre existing data. Therefore when appending retrieved data to an existing database it may be desirable to avoid duplicate entries. According to implementations of the invention a duplicate removal process may be initiated by selecting the DeDup button from which removes duplicate entries in a database. All or a portion of the retrieved data may be compared against existing data for purposes of duplicate removal. For example a last name and a phone number for retrieved data may be compared with the preexisting last name and phone number data. Where a duplicate is identified the retrieved data is not appended to the list.

According to one duplicate removal process while data is appended to an existing database each new entry is checked against an existing set of data to determine whether the new entry is a duplicate and if so the duplicate is deleted. When the duplicate removal process does not detect a duplicate the new record is appended to the existing memory.

In a further duplicate removal process the set of data retrieved may be compared to the same set of retrieved data to identify duplicate entries. For example where an address is associated with multiple phone numbers the duplicate removal process may compare a last name and street address with the rest of the retrieved data to identify duplicates. The above duplicate removal processes provides advantages for a user intending to generate a potential customer list because sending multiple mailings to an individual or calling one address multiple times may be avoided.

Some consumer location or business data that may be collected using Internet search engines may have missing erroneous or incomplete zip code data. In order to provide a complete record for mail merge purposes the correct zip code for each record is required. Accordingly selecting Zip Repair button in initiates a zip code repair process that compares the street address and city provided in address fields with current post office zip code information. Because the entire address for a record is used for comparison as opposed to just the city the correct zip code is identified for cities having multiple associated zip codes.

Some consumer data retrieved using the methods of the present invention may correspond to consumer s listed on a do not call list or a do not mail list. In certain embodiments therefore consumer records retrieved may be cross referenced with a compiled list of consumers that prohibit advertising mailing and or prefer not to receive sales calls and consumer data matching the lists may be removed from the set of search results. Some publicly available do not call lists are available through the U.S. government via a national registry or through a particular state via a state registry. In addition some publicly available do not mail lists are available over the Internet and may provide a national state or local list of consumers that do not wish to receive mail from direct mail marketing campaigns. Thus according to once a set of data is retrieved user preferences may dictate the format the data is provided which may include providing only data that has been filtered through a do not call list and or a do not mail list. Alternatively after data is provided to a user the user may select to filter the data using one or more of the above described lists.

According to certain implementations once a set of records in a dataset are searched and a set of data retrieved the resulting set of data may be saved and or appended to another set of database data e.g. saved into another pre existing database. According to certain implementations such as the implementation of appending data to another database is simplified compared to other database systems because the set of retrieved data may have field names e.g. first name field last name field address field etc. different from the field names in an existing database. For example retrieved data may have a field entitled first name while the existing database to which the retrieved data is to be appended may have a corresponding field name entitled f. name. Accordingly the embodiments of the present invention allow the data to be grouped together regardless of the identity of field names and without the need to change field names.

Furthermore saved and or appended data may be manipulated using extended database capabilities in order to provide records in a desired format e.g. for use in a spreadsheet with a desired type of information and or in a desired form e.g. data may be manipulated to provide a user with partial records as opposed to the complete record saved and or appended 

Implementations of the invention allow a user to search consumers locations and or businesses based on common criteria and thus may provide advantages in marketing contexts. Accordingly the text mining methods of the present invention may be provided by licensing software to users according to the criteria desired to be searched. For example licenses may be provided for generating data sets on a national state area code phone number prefix city and or zip code basis. depicts a screenshot of licensing software by state which may be implemented with the reverse phone number lookup software described above in relation to . In one or more states are selected from the State s to add pull down menu . Each time a state is selected the Add State button is selected and the state appears in window below the State s to add pull down menu . The total number of states selected appears in the States box and one or more unlock codes is provided in the field below the Unlock States button . Once registered a user may select the Show Registered States button and the states are provided in box on the right side of the screenshot. Although depicts a state unlock screen it will be understood that software may allow a user to unlock a variety of search types contemplated. For example one or more partial search strings e.g. common criteria for a search may be unlocked for a 10 digit land parcel IDs zip codes phone numbers MLS numbers etc.

Embodiments of the present invention that implement licensing applications with the search software may also implement encryption software. This may be desirable where unlocking software for a particular search capability provides limited searching for the user which cannot be unlocked further without proper access codes. Companies that sell or install software may have their own customized encryption software. Accordingly as an alternative to providing encryption software with the software and or hardware of the present invention the software and or hardware may allow another s encryption program to be plugged in.

It will be understood that various APIs may be implemented according to the present invention each of which may search a set of data having common criteria. The illustrations provided in should not be construed as limiting the processes or appearance of the APIs.

To illustrate one such various implementation is a flowchart of an API process that generates a record set of search criteria where each record in the set includes a portion of common criteria automatically executes in a searchable Internet database a search of each record in the record set and identify and retrieves search results for each record searched.

Furthermore an API may be configured for a number of types of common search criteria. depicts a screenshot of an API that is associated with hardware or software configured to search in a city county or state based database a set of land parcel IDs each having the common search criteria of 211 . That is each land parcel ID to be searched includes 211 somewhere in the 10 digit number. List box depicts a listing of a series of land parcel IDs each having 211 therein. The API is configured to access publicly available property tax records by entering a land parcel ID as the search criteria. Each time the 10 digit number corresponds to a land parcel ID the API retrieves associated address tax and image data. In land parcel ID 1211250001 is listed in Current Parcel field as the current parcel searched and the results of the search are provided in the Primary Owner and Address field in the Total Taxes Due field and in the Total Estimated Value field . Furthermore an image of the property searched may be displayed in Property display box . Thus for example once the time between searches is entered in field e.g. 0.1 40 a computer application and or hardware may initiate the method depicted in or combinations and variations thereof.

In a further embodiment search criteria may include full or partial land coordinates map coordinates and or GPS coordinates. Another type of search criteria may include common location criteria in combination with a particular demographic. For example males between 25 49 within a 10 mile radius of a location e.g. a stadium town center school and or business may be queried identified retrieved and presented according to some implementations. Thus it will be understood the systems and methods of the present invention may be used to provide a degree of completeness to a record that otherwise is missing desirable data.

The method and system according to the present invention may be implemented using various combinations of software and hardware as would be apparent to those of skill in the art and as desired by the user. The present invention may be implemented in conjunction with a general purpose or dedicated computer system having a processor and memory components.

From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

