---

title: Method and apparatus for maintaining and navigating a non-hierarchical personal spatial file system
abstract: A self-organizing personal file system is disclosed that evaluates the “importance” of terms and phrases in a document in a personal corpus relative to usage in a reference corpus. A personalized term weighting scheme assigns a weight to terms or phrases based on the frequency of occurrence of the corresponding term or phrase in a reference corpus. Documents are positioned in a visual file space associated with a personal corpus by storing each of the documents with an indication of the term weight for terms appearing in the corresponding document. A singular value decomposition is performed based on the term weights to position a given document in the visual file space based on a relative frequency distribution of terms of the document compared to the occurrence of such terms in a reference corpus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812507&OS=08812507&RS=08812507
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08812507
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 113 457 filed on Apr. 25 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 515 959 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 707 004 filed Nov. 6 2000 now abandoned incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to the field of computer file system management and more specifically to the field of computer file system management of documents.

A number of well known techniques exist for organizing and visualizing documents in a file system. For example a number of organization and visualization techniques are described in Readings in Information Visualization Using Vision to Think edited by Stuart K. Card et al. Morgan Kaufman Publishers Inc. San Fransisco Calif. 1999 . For example Wise et al. Visualizing the Non Visual Spatial Analysis and Interaction with Information from Text Documents 441 450 Proceedings of IEEE Information Visualization 95 51 58 1995 discuss various attempts to visualize large quantities of textual information most importantly the Galaxies visualization which displays cluster and document inter relatedness by reducing a high dimensional representation of documents and clusters to a 2D scatter plot of docupoints that appear as do stars in the night sky. Hendley et al. Case Study Narcissus Visualizing Information 503 509 Proceedings of IEEE Information Visualization 95 90 96 1995 discusses a representation of a three dimensional information space that is self organizing. Points such as web pages exert a repulsive force from one another that is proportional to their dissimilarity eventually reaching a steady state.

Typically files are maintained in a file system that uses a hierarchical structure. While such hierarchical structures provide an effective mechanism for organizing files in the file system they suffer from a number of limitations which if overcome could significantly increase the efficiency and consistency of file systems. Specifically such hierarchical structures must rely on the computer user s to maintain the hierarchy. Thus a number of self organizing techniques have been disclosed or suggested for organizing file systems. For example associative memory techniques have been applied in file systems. An associative memory relies more on associated recollections to pick out a particular memory than on absolute memory locations. See for example T. Kohonen Self Organization and Associative Memory Springer Verlag New York 1987 and T. Kohonen The self organizing map Proceedings of the IEEE 78 9 1990 1464 1480 each incorporated by reference herein. Kohonen s self organizing feature map algorithm addresses the problem of preserving the relative distances among points when doing a dimensionality reduction from N 2 dimensions to two. For example in three dimensions it is possible to have four points which are equidistant from one another i.e. the vertices of a regular tetrahedron but it is not possible to preserve this equidistance relationship when projecting these points to a plane since on a plane at most three points can be equidistant.

Addressing this problem Kohonen came up with an algorithm for representing higher dimensional objects in two dimensions by considering them as collections of grid points all enclosed by a convex region not containing any other grid points. The distance between higher dimension points when interpreted in this kind of two dimensional projection is equal to the distance between closest grid points. These Kohonen feature maps do a better job of preserving relative distance then do standard projections. Dimensionality reduction is important in rendering a navigation system through a high dimension document space.

A number of information retrieval mechanisms exist for accessing information based on a semantic analysis of documents. For example vector space methods in information retrieval identify relevant documents by determining a similarity between two documents. The most important vector space information retrieval models include the Vector Space Method VSM the Generalized Vector Space Method GVSM described in S. Wong et al. Generalized Vector Space Model in Information Retrieval ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development of Information Retrieval 1985 18 25 and the method of Latent Semantic Indexing LSI described in S. Deerwester et al. Indexing by Latent Semantic Analysis Journal of the American Society for Information Science 1990 41 6 391 407.

Generally the VSM information retrieval model looks at a document as a vector of frequencies of words where the similarity between two documents d and d is the vector dot product. The GVSM information retrieval model tries to solve the problem in VSM where virtually synonymous words are treated as orthogonal. GVSM uses a training collection of documents or training matrix to condition the dot product. In VSM single word documents will have a non zero similarity if they differ. In GVSM single word documents will have a similarity equal to how well the words are correlated to one another in the training documents. The LSI information retrieval model goes in a different direction trying to get at the problem of polysemy where words can have different meanings but in comparing word frequencies in documents analogous meanings of the same words are removed. Aside from this LSI is a very useful technique for determining principal components for dimensionality reduction.

Vector space methods use either word frequencies normalized word frequencies or some other term weighting scheme to coordinatize documents within the vector space. The most popular term weighting schemes are based on the term frequency tf multiplied by the inverse document frequency idf often referred to as tf idf. See for example G. Salton and C. Buckley Term Weighting Approaches in Automatic Text Retrieval Information Processing Management 1988 24 5 513 523 and S. Robertson et al Okapi at TREC 3 The Third Text Retrieval Conference National institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 1995 500 525.

The most traditional tf idf term weighting is f log N n where f is the frequency of the word in the current document N is the total documents in the local corpus and n is the number of documents in the local corpus containing the word. Once these weights are determined they are normalized to ensure document vectors of length one 1 . Normalization allows distance between documents to be viewed as the angle between document vectors and the cosine of the angle is then a measure of the similarity between the vectors which may be computed by taking the coordinate by coordinate dot product. Many other forms of tf idf have been proposed some of which do not use normalization. In any case the key to tf idf term weighting is the idf term. If a document is viewed purely as a vector of word counts then very commonly occurring words would dominate and documents could be seen to be close if they use commonly occurring words such as and and the in similar numbers. The inverse document frequency solves this problem by giving such words a very low idf. Since words such as and and the will occur in virtually every document the N n in the tf idf term weighting computation will be close to one and the log of N n will be close to 0. Thus these commonly occurring words will have negligible term weights.

LSI and other vector space methods use only a single corpus when coordinatizing documents within the vector space using term weighting schemes. The use of LSI in conjunction with standard term weighting schemes enables the most discriminable terms or phrases to rise to the top of the decomposition as the principal right singular vectors. However with a single corpus it is not possible to distinguish the discriminable terms phrases and concepts from the important terms phrases and concepts. In particular such single corpus term weighting schemes do not evaluate importance from a personal standpoint. The indistinguishability between importance and discriminability is borne out in an article by F. Jian and M. Littman entitled Approximate Dimension Equalization in Vector based Information Retrieval Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Conference on Machine Learning Morgan Kaufman 2000 423 430. Jian and Littman provide theoretical and experimental evidence to show that the dimensions that remain after an LSI based dimension reduction should be weighted uniformly. In fact they show how GVSM because of its effective weighting acts like a severely dimensionally reduced version of LSI and so consistently under performs LSI in retrieval tasks. Thus with single corpus tf idf term weighting schemes the first few singular vectors should thus not be viewed as the most important in any sense of the word.

Existing single corpus information retrieval methods do not allow the concept of importance to be assessed from the vantage point of a given individual or otherwise. For example suppose an artificial intelligence researcher has a number of documents that use the terms artificial and intelligence. Examination of the researcher s own documents does not permit an assessment of the importance of these terms for the researcher. It could in fact be that these terms are simply very commonly used.

Therefore a need exists for an improved self organizing personal file and navigational system. A further need exists for a file management system which requires minimal user involvement for organization. In a landscape of pervasive computing devices for example with information coming at users from all directions much of which a user would like to save within his or her personal collection it is not practical to have to save every document within a personally created hierarchy. Yet another need exists for a computer filing system that is highly interactive and gives the user a navigational space with landmarks to get his her bearings within the search space along with improved search facilities based on the underlying semantics of documents. An object of this invention is to provide an improved method for determining the relevance of a document to a query or proximity of one document to another based on two corpus relative term weighting. An additional object of this invention is to provide the user with a rich spatial representation of files that is highly interactive and optimized for efficient navigation.

Generally a self organizing personal file system is disclosed. The disclosed personal file system evaluates the importance of terms and phrases in a document in a personal corpus relative to usage in one or more larger reference corpuses. As used herein the expression term such as a term in a document shall include a word a word stem the root of a word or a sequential group of words word stems or roots of words. According to one aspect of the invention terms or phrases in a document are weighted in accordance with a personalized term weighting scheme. Generally the personalized term weighting scheme assigns a weight to terms or phrases based on the frequency of occurrence of the corresponding term or phrase in a reference corpus.

According to another aspect of the invention the personalized term weighting for a given term or phrase can be used to store and access documents containing the corresponding term or phrase in the spatial file system. Generally the personalized term weights provide coordinates in a spatial file system for one or more documents containing the corresponding term or phrase. More specifically the location of a given document in a file space may be specified by the relative frequency distribution of the stems of its significant terms or phrases compared to the occurrence of such terms or phrases in a reference corpus. Thus documents containing similar subject matter and using similar terminology will be in the same vicinity that is have similar coordinates in the spatial file system.

In one exemplary implementation the employed term weighting scheme is based on the fractional frequency of a term in a user s document divided by the fractional frequency of the term in the reference corpus. It is noted however that alternative term weighting schemes can be employed in accordance with the present invention such as entropy weightings and traditional tf idf weightings provided they utilize a reference corpus. The fractional frequency of a term in the document is the number of occurrences of the term in the document divided by the total number of words in the document. The fractional frequency of the term in the reference corpus is the number of occurrences of the term in the reference corpus divided by the total number of words in the reference corpus.

According to another aspect of the invention the personalized term weighting scheme inherently discounts commonly occurring words. In the vector of term weightings for documents using this relative fractional frequency calculation the words that dominate are those that are used hundreds or thousands of times or more frequently than background i.e. relative to usage in the reference corpus . Thus when the Euclidean distance computation is performed for example during coordinatization for an information retrieval IR task the important terms will be those terms that are used significantly more often than they are used in the reference corpus. The distance computation is the square root of the sum of the squares of the coordinate wise differences. Thus commonly occurring terms will naturally be discounted and the relevant documents to the user specified keywords will be those documents having the smallest distance i.e. are closest to the user specified terms .

A spatial rendering system is also disclosed that utilizes the personalized term weights as coordinates for each document in a spatial file system. Thus the location of a given document in a file space may be specified by the relative frequency distribution of the stems of its significant terms or phrases compared to the occurrence of such terms or phrases in the reference corpus. A singular value decomposition is performed based on the term weights to position a given document in the visual file space based on a relative frequency distribution of terms of said document compared to the occurrence of such terms in a reference corpus. The spatial rendering system positions landmarks in the visual file space in accordance with a degree of correlation with each file system axis indicating terms that are correlated to terms associated with axes of the file system. The disclosed spatial rendering system can also render additional orthogonal axes.

A more complete understanding of the present invention as well as further features and advantages of the present invention will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description and drawings.

The present invention provides a spatial file system shown in that maintains files as points in a dimension space. is a schematic block diagram of an embodiment of the spatial file system of the present invention. As shown in the spatial file system includes a search engine file access services a reference corpus and able storage system . Generally the file storage system allows files to be accessed sequentially beginning at the first byte using for example a read command. In addition as discussed further below in conjunction with the spatial file system includes one or more relational database s though the relational database can be replaced by a large in memory inverted index using the same architecture to improve performance. The file storage system and relational databases may be local or remote and they may be integrated with the spatial file system as shown or embodied as stand alone devices. The spatial file system also includes a file storage subsystem and a term weighting routine discussed further below in conjunction with respectively. Finally a representative spatial rendering system is discussed further below in conjunction with .

As shown in the relational database includes a WordStem structure a Word structure a Stem structure a DocumentStem structure and a Document structure . Generally the WordStem structure associates each word having an associated Word structure and its corresponding stem having an associated Stem structure . To discount for the frequency of commonly occurring roots the Stem structure contains a column called stemInherentFrequency which has the naturally occurring frequency of the stem in a very large reference corpus such as the corpus . To accommodate the problem of new terms or acronyms being coined as time goes on the user s own documents can be used to augment the reference collection. The additional counter columns needed to maintain these frequencies are omitted from the illustrative data model shown in .

In addition the DocumentStem structure associates each stem having an associated Stem structure and the corresponding documents in which the stem appears as indicated in the Document structure . The DocumentStem structure identifies the stem and the corresponding document docID docVersion and also provides a frequency count indicating the number of times the stem appears in the document.

A Document structure exists for each document in the personal corpus of a user. In addition to providing the document identifier and version docID docVersion the Document structure provides the title size creation date and corresponding application associated with the document.

It is noted that the spatial file system generally treats every kind of file as a document including applications any executable file utility files image files audio files and electronic mail documents. Thus the Document structure provides a docIsVisible field that can be set to false in order to permit some files to be inaccessible during routine navigation. The docIsApplication field can be set to true when the document corresponds to an application file. It is noted however that all documents will be coordinatized. In other words all documents will have corresponding values in the DocumentStem or DocumentPhraseStem tables. For documents without textual content typically only the titles will be used for coordinatization docTitle .

The docWeight entry in the Document structure indicates the overall weight assigned to the document. The docWeight is calculated for example when the document is stored as discussed further below in a section entitled File Storage Subsystem. Finally the docAccessCount and docLastAccess fields in the Document structure provide access related administrative information or meta deta. Files may be accessed by content meta data or a combination of these as depicted in .

As previously indicated illustrates an alternate implementation of a relational database where a document s semantics are stored and accessed in terms of phrases multiple words and phrase stems multiple word stems . Phrase stems are derived from word stems by taking the stems of the constituents of component words. Documents are scanned for two to N word sequences that contain at least two significant stems. Frequencies are calculated by taking the number of occurrences of the phrase stem divided by the total number of sequences of the given length in the document. Thus if a document contained 1000 words and a phrase stem was artificial intelligence and there were three occurrences in the given document then the observed frequency would be 3 999 since there are 999 two word sequences in a 1000 word document actually less since occurrences would not be allowed to carry across sentence boundaries 

While the illustration of the relational databases shown in are simplified to assume use of a single language the relational databases can be extended to accommodate a plurality of languages as would be readily apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. For a discussion of extensions of various vector space methods to multi lingual corpuses see for example M. Franz et al. Ad Hoc and Multilingual Information Retrieval at IBM Proceedings of the Seventh Text Retrieval Conference 157 168 1999 Dept. Of Commerce National Institute of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology and T. K. Landauer and M. L. Littman Fully Automatic Cross Language Document Retrieval Using Latent Semantic Indexing Proceedings of the Sixth Annual Conference of the UW Centre for the New Oxford Dictionary and Text Research 31 38 Waterloo Ontario 1990 . In addition the relational databases may be embodied as inverted indexes in an alternate implementation.

Once initiated the file storage subsystem performs a number of tasks which may be performed serially substantially in parallel or a combination of the foregoing. During step the file is saved in the sequential file system . It is noted that the file storage subsystem optionally provides an application programming interface API for saving the word or phrase stem frequency distributions within the relational database . The use of an API for storage in the sequential file system allows the document to be optionally stored in a proprietary format which need not be understood by the file storage subsystem .

The file storage subsystem executes a term weighting routine discussed below in conjunction with during step to generate the word or phrase stem frequency values for storage in the relational database . Thereafter the overall document weight is computed during step for storage in the relational database . The overall document weight indicates the total information content of the document and is the sum of the term weights for all terms or phrases in the document. Finally during step the file storage subsystem initializes other document statistics such as the access parameters for storage in the docAccessCount and docLastAccess fields in the Document structure of the relational database s .

As previously indicated the file storage subsystem executes a term weighting routine shown in to generate the word or phase stem frequency values for storage in the relational database . is a flow chart describing an exemplary implementation of the term weighting routine incorporating features of the present invention. Generally the term weighting routine weights terms or phrases in a document in accordance with the personalized term weighting scheme. The exemplary term weighting scheme employed in the routine is based on the fractional frequency of a term in the document divided by the fractional frequency of the term in the reference corpus . It is noted however that alternative term weighting schemes can be employed in accordance with the present invention such as entropy weightings and traditional tf idf weightings provided they utilize a reference corpus as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

As shown in the term weighting routine initially determines the fractional frequency of a term in the document FF DOC during step by counting the number of occurrences of the term in the document divided by the total number of words in the document.

Thereafter the term weighting routine determines the fractional frequency of the term in the reference corpus FF REF during step by counting the number of occurrences of the term in the reference corpus divided by the total number of words in the reference corpus .

Finally the term weighting routine calculates the term weight for the given term during step by dividing the fractional frequency of a term in the document FF DOC by the fractional frequency of the term in the reference corpus FF REF .

For example if a word occurs in a particular document from the personal corpus of a user with a fractional frequency of a term in the document FF DOC of 0.005 and a fractional frequency of a term in the large reference corpus FF REF of 0.0001 then the term weight percentage of background is 50.

According to another feature of the present invention the personalized term weighting scheme inherently discounts commonly occurring words such as and and the. In the vector of term weightings for documents using this relative fractional frequency calculation the words that dominate are those that are used hundreds or thousands of times or more frequently than background i.e. relative to usage in the reference corpus . If a document talks about artificial intelligence the chances are that the words artificial and intelligence will be used thousands of times more often than background. The commonly occurring words such as the and and in the vector of term weights based on this weighting scheme will be somewhere in the range of 0.1 to 10.

When the Euclidean distance computation is performed for example during coordinatization for an information retrieval IR task the important terms will be those terms that are used significantly more often than they are used in the reference corpus . The distance computation is the square root of the sum of the squares of the coordinate wise differences. Thus commonly occurring terms will naturally be discounted and the relevant documents to the user specified keywords will be those documents having the smallest distance i.e. are closest to the user specified terms .

In addition the personalized term weighting scheme allows a low dimensional Singular Value Decomposition to perform better than other term weightings using only a single corpus. It is noted that the personalized term weighting scheme may alternately be considered as 

As previously indicated the personalized term weights provide coordinates for each document in a spatial file system shown in . More specifically the location of a given document in a file space may be specified by the relative frequency distribution of the stems of its significant terms or phrases compared to the occurrence of such terms or phrases in the reference corpus . In one illustrative implementation frequency profiles used to coordinatize documents will be calculated as multiples of background frequencies. For example suppose that a document contains the words system design and analysis and that the background frequency FF REF of these stem words is 0.01 0.005 0.004 but in the current document the observed occurrences FF DOC are with frequencies 0.03 0.01 0.04 . Thus the corresponding coordinatization is then 3 2 10 . It is clear that such a coordinatization does not lend itself to normalization.

As shown in the spatial rendering system initially positions the user in the file space at the location of the last created document during step . Thereafter the spatial rendering system obtains 2 N where N is roughly a value between 3 and 8 most significant word stems used in the current document during step . The first two coordinates serve as the x and y axes with the N additional coordinates serving as alternate axes see in described below .

During step the spatial rendering system determines the most significant 2 stein phrases for each axis. The locations of all documents having a word stem in common with the two or three principal axes are then obtained during step using the same term weighting. In one implementation all documents having a term weighting in the projected space of the principal axes above a specified threshold will be displayed.

Finally the pool of word stems from this set of documents and the stems with in document weights FF DOC over a specified threshold are evaluated during step to calculate the corresponding centroid. The centroid serve as landmarks in the file space and are stems which are significantly correlated to the stems representing the principal axes.

Skew axes are alternative orthogonal axes to the two principal axes x and v . The skew axes may be dragged onto one of the current axes x and y to get a new coordinatization in a manner discussed further below. Drop down menus associated with each of the various axes contain significantly occurring two stem phrases including the principal axis term. Larger spheres such as the sphere indicate documents having greater total information content overall document weight calculated during step of . Spheres containing numbers indicate documents that have highest correlation to the user specified keywords of music and study. In addition a detail menu provides more detail on these documents having the highest correlation to the user specified keywords. Finally a dialog box allows a user to enter a new set of keywords and thereby reposition the location of the file space .

In one embodiment pointing to any spherical object associated with a document for example using a mouse or other pointing device reveals the name and size in bytes of the corresponding document. In addition clicking on any document can open the document. Dragging one of the alternative axes on top of one of the current axes x and y replaces the current axis with the new one resulting in a new display of documents and landmarks. Dragging a landmark on top of an axis replaces the axis with the landmark. It is noted that the resulting axes will not be orthogonal but for display purposes the assumption of orthogonality is made see for example Salton McGill s Vector Space Model . Clicking on a landmark switches to the reference frame of that landmark. The collection of documents containing that landmark are temporarily viewed as a single document and principal components calculated with axes thereby generated followed by a new rendering of files and landmarks with the new axes.

As noted in the preceding section drop down menus along the various axes contain significantly occurring two stem phrases including the principal axis stem. Selecting from a drop down menu amounts to drilling down to greater detail on that axis. Once a two stem phrase is selected the drop down contains three stem phrases as well as an option to return to the parent single stem .

The radio buttons that allow the user to alter the meaning of size in the rendition are self explanatory. An additional set of radio buttons that allows the user to use light to dark gray scale shading to indicate either information content currency or frequency of access i.e. Size might be used to indicate information content color to indicate currency can also be employed. In a further variation sliders or dials that will allow the user to filter out documents by information content currency age frequency of access or another quantifiable measure can also be provided. i.e. users could by moving the slider dial see just very recent or very old documents .

While the present invention has been illustrated in the context of a personal computer system the invention applies to any device employing file system organization for local or centralized storage media. For example a user may employ a number of Internet enabled devices to access the same shared file system such as a cellular telephone a personal computer at home and at work and a personal digital assistant PDA . Generally documents created or browsed on one medium should be accessible on all the other media instantly. For example a user may desire to utilize his or her cell phone to browse for documents or previously saved phone conversations that have transcribed to text for example using Via Voice commercially available from IBM Corporation using voice commands. Browsing a hierarchy with 20 to 100 documents in a directory is impractical using a cell phone. Browsing verbally however asking the file system for the five closest documents and the five most closely related conceptual landmarks is more compelling.

In addition the invention may be applied to store and access documents in a team room where there are multiple authors and it is difficult for the group of authors to jointly assemble a single document hierarchy.

It is to be understood that the embodiments and variations shown and described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

