---

title: Clustering of audio streams in a 2D / 3D conference scene
abstract: The present document relates to methods and systems for setting up and managing two-dimensional or three-dimensional scenes for audio conferences. A conference controller () configured to place L upstream audio signals () within a 2D or 3D conference scene to be rendered to a listener () is described. The conference controller () is configured to set up a X-point conference scene; assign L upstream audio signals () to X talker locations (); determine a maximum number N of downstream audio signals () to be transmitted to the listener (); determine N downstream audio signals () from the L assigned upstream audio signals (); determine N updated talker locations for the N downstream audio signals (); and generate metadata identifying the updated talker locations and enabling an audio processing unit () to generate a spatialized audio signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420109&OS=09420109&RS=09420109
owner: Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation
number: 09420109
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130321
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 614 597 filed 23 Mar. 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present document relates to audio conferences. In particular the present document relates to methods and systems for setting up and managing two dimensional or three dimensional scenes for audio conferences.

One of the deficiencies in current multi party voice conferences is that voices are typically all rendered to the listeners as a monaural audio stream essentially overlaid on top of each other and usually presented to the listeners within the head when headphones are used. Spatialisation techniques used e.g. to simulate different people talking from different rendered locations can improve intelligibility of speech in a voice conference in particular when there are multiple people speaking simultaneously. The present document addresses the technical problem of designing appropriate two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D scenes for an audio conference which allow a listener to easily distinguish the different talkers of the audio conference. In particular the present document describes methods and systems for transmitting 2D or 3D conference scenes to the rendering device of a listener in case of data bandwidth limitations.

According to an aspect a conference controller configured to place L upstream audio signals associated with L conference participants respectively within a 2D or 3D conference scene is described. The conference scene is to be rendered to a listener. Typically the listener is positioned at a central position of the conference scene e.g. at the center of a circle or a sphere if the conference scene is modeled as a circle or a sphere . The L upstream audio signals may be audio signals generated at the terminals e.g. computing devices or telephone devices of the L conference participants. As such the L upstream audio signals typically comprise the speech signals of the conference participants. For this reason the upstream audio signals may also be referred to as talker audio signals. The conference controller may be positioned at a central position within a communication network e.g. in a so called centralized conference architecture and or the conference controller may be positioned at a terminal of a conference participant e.g. in a so called distributed conference architecture . The conference controller may also be referred to as a scene manager in the instance of using a 2D or 3D rendering system. The conference controller may be implemented using a computing device e.g. a server . The number L of upstream audio signals is an integer with L 1. Typically L 3 4 5 6 or greater.

The conference controller may be configured to set up a X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations within the conference scene X being an integer X 0 e.g. X 1 in particular X 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 10 . In this context the conference controller may be configured to calculate the X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations based on one or more of the conference scene design rules described in the present document. One such design rule may e.g. be that the X talker locations are positioned within a cone around a midline in front of the head of a listener.

Other design rules may relate to an angular separation of the X talker locations. Alternatively or in addition the conference controller may be configured to select the X point conference scene with the X different spatial talker locations from a set of pre determined conference scenes comprising pre determined speaker locations. By way of example the set may comprise one or more pre determined X point conference scenes with X different pre determined spatial talker locations. As such the X point conference scene may be a pre determined X point conference scene with X pre determined speaker locations.

The conference controller may be configured to set up different conference scenes e.g. different X point conference scenes with differently placed talker locations and or conference scenes with different values of X . The X talker locations of the X point conference scene may be positioned within a cone around a midline in front of a head of the listener. The midline may be an imaginary line starting at a mid point on an imaginary line between the ears of the listener and extending perpendicularly to the imaginary line between the ears of the listener in front of the head of the listener. A generatrix of the cone and the midline may form an absolute angle which is smaller than or equal to a pre determined maximum cone angle. The maximum cone angle may be preferably 30 or narrower such as 20 or even 15 depending on the population of the cone.

The conference controller is configured to assign the L upstream audio signals to respective ones of the X talker locations. By assigning the L upstream audio signals to particular talker locations within the conference scene the conference controller enables a rendering device e.g. a terminal of the listener of the conference scene to render the L upstream audio signals as if the L upstream audio signals emanate from the respective particular talker locations. For this purpose the conference controller may be configured to generate metadata identifying the assigned talker locations and enabling an audio processing unit at a listener s terminal to generate a spatialized audio signal based on the L upstream audio signals. When rendering the spatialized audio signal to the listener the listener perceives the L upstream audio signals as coming from the assigned talker locations. The audio processing unit may be positioned within the terminal of the listener or in the central audio server handling the audio streams. The spatialized audio signal may e.g. be a binaural audio signal which is rendered on headphones or loudspeakers at the terminal of the listener. Alternatively or in addition the spatialized audio signal may be a multi channel surround sound signal e.g. a 5.1 or a 7.1 multi channel signal.

The X talker locations may be placed on a circle or a sphere with the listener being placed in a center of the circle or sphere. Alternative conference scenes may comprise talker locations which are placed on an ellipse or ellipsoid. The listener does not necessarily need to be placed in a center. By way of example in order to simulate a meeting around a table wherein the meeting comprises the conference participant and the listener the listener may be placed at an edge of the geometrical shape forming the conference scene e.g. at an edge of the circle or sphere or the ellipse or ellipsoid. In the latter case as well as in the case where the listener is placed in the center of an ellipse or ellipsoid the distance between the X talker locations and the listener would be different depending on the talker location.

The number X of talker locations and or the number L of upstream audio signals may be relatively large. In case of L smaller or equal to X each upstream audio signal may be assigned to a different talker location such that the L upstream audio signals would be transmitted to the terminal of the listener in order to enable the rendering of the 2D or 3D conference scene at the terminal of the listener. However the bandwidth between the conference controller and the terminal of the listener may be limited such that the bandwidth may not be sufficient for the transmission of all of the L upstream audio signals or of all of the X possibly mixed audio signals to the terminal of the listener.

For this purpose the conference controller may be configured to determine a maximum number N of downstream audio signals to be transmitted to the terminal of the listener. The number N of downstream audio signals is an integer wherein N

As a consequence the conference controller may determine N downstream audio signals from the L assigned upstream audio signals based on the L upstream audio signals. By way of example the conference controller may be configured to mix some of the assigned upstream audio signals in order to bring down the number of individual audio signals to the maximum number N. In another example the conference controller may be configured to appropriately select some of the L assigned upstream audio signals e.g. the ones of the L assigned upstream audio signals which actually comprise speech signals i.e. which are active to be transmitted as downstream audio signals to the terminal of the listener. In addition the conference controller may be configured to determine N updated talker locations for the N downstream audio signals respectively based on the X talker locations which the L upstream audio signals are assigned to.

As such the conference controller may be configured to adjust the conference scene in accordance to the maximum number N of downstream audio signals to be transmitted to the terminal of the listener. In order to allow for a spatialized rendering of the reduced number of downstream audio signals the conference controller may be configured to generate metadata identifying the updated talker locations and enabling the audio processing unit of the terminal of the listener to generate a spatialized audio signal based on the N downstream audio signals. The metadata comprises the necessary information to the audio processing unit such that when rendering the spatialized audio signal to the listener the listener perceives the N downstream audio signals as coming from the N updated talker locations respectively. As indicated above the conference controller may be configured to select at least two different talker locations in order to reduce the number of talker locations to a total of N updated talker locations. The at least two different talker locations may be adjacent to one another. The conference controller may be configured to initiate a mixing of one or more upstream audio signals assigned to the selected at least two different talker locations thereby yielding a first of the N downstream audio signals. The actual mixing of the one or more upstream audio signals may be performed by an audio server which may be separate from the conference controller and which may comprise a digital signal processor .

The conference controller may be configured to assign the first downstream audio signal to a first of the N updated talker locations. The first updated talker location may e.g. be one of the selected talker locations. Alternatively the first updated talker location may be a location between the selected talker locations e.g. a location midway between the selected talker locations. Alternatively the conference controller may be configured to set up an N point conference scene different from the X point conference scene . In this case the first updated talker location may be one of the N talker locations of the N point conference scene. Typically the one of the N talker locations is the talker location within the N point conference scene with a minimum distance from the selected talker locations within the X point conference scene.

The conference controller may be configured to repeatedly select two adjacent talker locations and initiate the mixing of the upstream audio signals assigned to the selected talker locations until the number of audio signals assigned to different talker locations within the conference scene is N. The conference controller may be configured to select adjacent talker locations at relatively large angular distance from the midline prior to adjacent talker locations at relatively small angular distance from the midline.

The conference controller may be configured to determine a degree of activity of the L upstream audio signals. The degree of activity of an upstream audio signal may be determined as its energy wherein the energy may be determined e.g. based on a means square value of samples of the upstream audio signal. If the degree of activity of the upstream audio signals is known the conference controller may be configured to select the at least two talker locations which are to be merged based on the degree of activity of the one or more upstream signals assigned to the at least two talker locations. By way of example the conference controller may decide to first merge talker locations with assigned upstream audio signals having relatively low degrees of activity e.g. the lowest degrees of activity .

The conference controller may be configured to determine a degree of activity of the L upstream audio signals at a time instant. In particular the degrees of activity of the L upstream audio signals may be determined for a plurality of succeeding time instants e.g. every 10 ms 100 ms 1 second . The conference controller may be configured to determine a first of the L upstream audio signals having the highest degree of activity from the L upstream audio signals at the time instant. As a consequence the conference controller may determine one of the N downstream audio signals at the time instant to be the first upstream audio signal and determine a corresponding one of the N updated talker locations to be the talker location which the first upstream audio signal is assigned to. As such the conference controller may select upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity for transmission to the terminal of the listener. As a result the selected upstream audio signal may be rendered to the listener at the originally assigned talker location within the X point conference scene without the need to mix the selected upstream audio signal with another upstream audio signal.

The conference controller may be configured to repeatedly determine the upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity for the plurality of succeeding time instants and to repeatedly determine the one of the N downstream audio signals at the plurality of succeeding time instants as being the upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity and to repeatedly determine the corresponding one of the N updated talker locations at the plurality of succeeding time instants as being the talker location which the upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity is assigned to. In other words at each of the plurality of succeeding time instants the conference controller may select the upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity. As such it may be ensured that at each time instant of the plurality of succeeding time instants the upstream audio signal having the highest degree of activity may be rendered at its originally assigned talker location within the X point conference scene at the terminal of the listener. In order to ensure a stability of the selection process along the time the swap between different selected upstream audio signals having the highest degree of activity may be submitted to a hysteresis.

If N 1 e.g. N 2 or 3 then the conference controller may be configured to determine up to N 1 downstream audio signals at the time instant to correspond to the upstream audio signals having the N 1 highest degrees of activity and to determine the corresponding N 1 updated talker locations as being the talker locations which the upstream audio signals having the N 1 highest degrees of activity are assigned to. In other words the conference controller may be configured to use up to N 1 of the available downstream audio signals and up to N 1 of the available updated talker locations in order to transmit the N 1 most active upstream audio signals at their originally assigned talker locations within the X point conference scene to the terminal of the listener. As such the N 1 most active conference participants may be rendered at their originally assigned talker locations within the X point conference scene.

On the other hand the conference controller may be configured to determine at least two upstream audio signals having the at least two lowest degrees of activity and to initiate the mixing of the at least two upstream audio signals having the at least two lowest degrees of activity. In particular the conference controller may use one of the N downstream audio signals to transmit a mixed version of the remaining L N 1 upstream audio signals which are not transmitted individually within the other N 1 downstream audio signals.

As indicated above the conference controller is configured to place L upstream audio signals associated with L conference participants within the X point conference scene. As such the listener of the conference scene may be enabled to perceive the L audio signals coming from different up to X different spatial locations within the conference scene. The conference controller may be configured to assign the plurality of upstream audio signals i.e. the L upstream audio signals to the X talker locations in accordance to a sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals. The sequential order may refer to a waiting line of the conference controller for placing the upstream audio signals within the conference. Alternatively or in addition the sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals may be based on an order of detection of the plurality of upstream audio signals by the conference controller. In other words the sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals may be associated with the order in which the different conference participants dial into the audio conference thereby affecting the sequential order in which the corresponding upstream audio signals are detected by the conference controller.

The conference controller may be configured to assign the X talker locations in an order of increasing absolute angular distance from the midline. In other words the conference controller may assign the first upstream audio signal to the center most talker location the second upstream audio signal to the next center most talker location and so on until reaching an outer most talker location. Subject to assigning an upstream audio signal from the plurality of upstream audio signals to the outer most talker location from the X talker locations the conference controller may be configured to assign a next upstream audio signal from the plurality of upstream audio signals to the inner most also referred to as the center most talker location from the X talker locations.

Hence the conference controller may be configured to assign multiple upstream audio signals from the plurality of upstream audio signals to at least one of the X talker locations. The conference controller may be configured to do so notably if the number L of upstream audio signals to be placed within the conference scene is greater than the number X of talker locations. The number M may be the total number of conference participants one being the listener of the particular conference scene and the other L M 1 being talkers which are to be placed on the talker locations within the X point conference scene. In case of multiple upstream audio signals being assigned to the same talker location the conference controller may be configured to initiate a mixing of the multiple upstream audio signals assigned to the same talker location thereby generating a mixed audio signal to be rendered at the talker location. The actual mixing of the upstream audio signals may be performed by an audio server comprising e.g. a digital signal processor . The audio server may be separate from the conference controller.

Notably if the number L of upstream audio signals which are to be placed within the conference scene is smaller or equal to X the conference controller may be configured to assign each of the plurality of upstream audio signals to a different one of the X talker locations. Typically an upstream audio signal is only assigned to a single one of the X talker locations.

The conference controller may be configured to determine rendering characteristics of an audio transceiver rendering the spatialized audio signal. By way of example the conference controller may be configured to determine that the audio transceiver at the terminal of the listener is capable to render a binaural audio signal or a surround sound audio signal or only a mono signal. The conference controller may be configured to generate a set of downstream audio signals and appropriate metadata which enable the audio transceiver at the terminal of the listener to appropriately render the conference scene. The set of downstream audio signals typically comprises the upstream audio signal or the plurality of upstream audio signals e.g. in a mixed form . The metadata typically comprises information which allows for a spatialized rendering of the upstream audio signal or the plurality of upstream audio signals in accordance to their placement within the X point conference scene.

According to another aspect an audio conferencing system is described. The audio conferencing system comprises L talker terminals configured to generate L upstream audio signals associated with L conference participants respectively e.g. by recording the speech signal of the conference participant using a microphone . Furthermore the system comprises a conference controller according to any of the aspects outlined in the present document. The conference controller may be configured to assign the L upstream audio signals to respective talker locations within a 2D or 3D conference scene to determine N downstream audio signals and N updated talker locations and to generate metadata identifying the N updated talker locations. Furthermore the system comprises a listener terminal configured to render the N downstream audio signals to a listener using the metadata such that the listener perceives the N downstream audio signals as coming from the N updated talker locations respectively.

According to a further aspect a method for reducing a number of downstream audio signals to be transmitted to a listener of a 2D or 3D conference scene is described. The method comprises setting up a X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations within a 2D or 3D conference scene X being an integer X 0. The method proceeds in assigning L upstream audio signals associated with respective L conference participants to the X talker locations L being an integer L 1 Furthermore the method comprises determining a maximum number N of downstream audio signals to be transmitted to the listener N being an integer wherein N

According to a further aspect a software program is described. The software program may be adapted for execution on a processor and for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when carried out on the processor.

According to another aspect a storage medium is described. The storage medium may comprise a software program adapted for execution on a processor and for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when carried out on a computing device.

According to a further aspect a computer program product is described. The computer program may comprise executable instructions for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when executed on a computer.

It should be noted that the methods and systems including its preferred embodiments as outlined in the present patent application may be used stand alone or in combination with the other methods and systems disclosed in this document. Furthermore all aspects of the methods and systems outlined in the present patent application may be arbitrarily combined. In particular the features of the claims may be combined with one another in an arbitrary manner.

As outlined in the introductory section current multi party audio conference systems typically overlay the audio signals of a plurality of parties participating in an audio conference into a monaural audio signal which is provided as a single audio stream to each of the participating parties. This makes it difficult for a participating party when listening to distinguish the other participating parties from one another when the other parties are talking . In the present document multi party audio conference systems are described which allow for the spatialisation of the plurality of parties of an audio conference i.e. which allow to place different participating parties of the audio conference at different spatial locations within a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D audio scene. As a result a listening party perceives the other participating parties as talking from different respective spatial locations thereby enabling the listening party to better distinguish the other participating parties.

The conference server may e.g. be an application server of an audio conference service provider within a telecommunication network. The terminals may e.g. be computing devices such as laptop computers desktop computers tablet computers and or smartphones as well as telephones such as mobile telephones cordless telephones desktop handsets etc. The conference server comprises a central conference controller configured to combine the plurality of upstream audio signals to from an audio conference. The central conference controller may be configured to place the plurality of upstream audio signals at particular locations within a 2D or 3D conference scene and generate information regarding the arrangement i.e. the locations of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene.

Furthermore the conference server comprises a plurality of audio servers for the plurality of terminals respectively. It should be noted that the plurality of audio servers may be provided within a single computing device digital signal processor. The plurality of audio servers may e.g. be dedicated processing modules within the server or dedicated software threads to service the audio signals for the respective plurality of terminals . Hence the audio servers may be logical entities which process the audio signals in accordance to the needs of the respective terminals . An audio server or an equivalent processing module or thread within a combined server receives some or all of the plurality of upstream audio signals e.g. in the form of audio streams as well as the information regarding the arrangement of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene. The information regarding the arrangement of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene is typically provided by the conference controller which thereby informs the audio server or processing module thread on how to process the audio signals. Using this information the audio server generates a set of downstream audio signals as well as corresponding metadata which is transmitted to the respective terminal in order to enable the respective terminal to render the audio signals of the participating parties in accordance to the conference scene established within the conference controller . The set of downstream audio signals is typically transmitted as a set of downstream audio streams e.g. bitstreams. By way of example the set of downstream audio signals may be encoded as G.711 G722.2 AMR WB MPEG2 or MPEG 4 or proprietary audio bitstreams. The information regarding the placement of the downstream audio signals within the conference scene may be encoded as metadata e.g. within the set of downstream audio streams. Hence the conference server in particular the audio server may be configured to encode the set of downstream audio signals into a set of downstream audio streams comprising metadata for rendering the conference scene at the terminal . It should be noted that the metadata may be sent to the terminal as a separate stream e.g. with a timestamp for synchronization with the downstream audio stream. This means that a terminal that does not require the metadata or that does not know how to decode the metadata can still process the basic downstream audio streams and render the audio signals to the listener at the terminal . In other words the set of downstream audio signals and the metadata may be encoded in a downward compatible way such that terminals which are not enabled for the rendering of 2D or 3D conference scenes may still be used to render the downstream audio signals e.g. in a mixed form . As such the audio servers may be configured to perform the actual signal processing e.g. using a digital signal processor of the plurality of upstream audio streams and or the plurality of upstream audio signals in order to generate the plurality of downstream audio streams and or the plurality of downstream audio signals as well as the metadata describing the conference scene. The audio servers may be dedicated to a corresponding terminal as illustrated in . Alternatively an audio server may be configured to perform the signal processing for a plurality of terminals e.g. for all terminals . It should be noted that the upstream audio signal of a terminal may also be referred to as a talker audio signal because it comprises the audio signal which is generated by the conference participant that is talking at the terminal e.g. talking into a microphone of the terminal . In a similar manner the set of downstream audio signals which is sent to the terminal may be referred to as a set of auditor audio signals because the set comprises the plurality of audio signals which the participant at the terminal listens to e.g. using headphones or loudspeakers.

The set of downstream audio signals for a particular terminal is generated from the plurality of upstream audio signals using the central conference controller and the audio server e.g. the audio server or the processing module or the software thread for the particular terminal . The central conference controller and the audio server generate an image of the 2D or 3D conference scene as it is to be perceived by the conference participant at the particular terminal . If there are M participants of the audio conference i.e. if there are M terminals connected to the conference server then the conference server may be configured to arrange M groups of M 1 upstream audio signals within M 2D or 3D conference scenes M being an integer with M 2 e.g. M 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 . More precisely the conference server may be configured to generate M conference scenes for the M terminals wherein for each terminal the remaining M 1 other upstream audio signals are arranged within a 2D or 3D conference scene.

By way of example the conference server may make use of a master conference scene which describes the arrangement of the M conference participants within a 2D or 3D spatial arrangement. The conference server may be configured to generate a different perspective of the master conference scene for the M conference participants i.e. for the M terminals of the M conference participants respectively . By doing this it can be ensured that all of the conference participants have the same relative view of where the other conference participants are being placed. This is notably the case if the M conference participants are positioned around a table e.g. a circle within the master conference scene and if the listeners in the M individual conference scenes are positioned at an edge of the table e.g. on the circle .

In another example the conference server may assign the talker locations of the conference scene in accordance to a sequential arrival of the conference participants to the conference scene. The talker locations may be assigned from an inner most talker location to an outer most talker location as described in the present document. As a result of such sequential order the conference participants may be placed at the same talker locations within the conference scenes destined for different listeners. The conference server may make use of this similarity or identity of conference scenes in order to save computational complexity.

In a further example the conference server may make use of a single conference scene for all the M conference participants and place all of the M conference participants at pre determined talker locations within the single conference scene. In such a case all the M conference participants would perceive the same 2D or 3D conference scene. When providing the single conference scene to a particular terminal for a particular conference participant being the listener the talker location of the particular conference participant may be left empty. This example may be efficient to implement as it only requires the management of a single conference scene by the conference server .

The M conference scenes typically differ in that a different individual of the M participants is placed within a center of the conference scene. By way of example the conference scene for a first terminal typically assumes the first terminal to be in the center of the conference scene and the other M 1 terminals to be placed around the first terminal . As such the audio server for the first terminal generates a set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata from the M 1 upstream audio signals other than the upstream audio signal from the first terminal . This terminal specific set of downstream audio signals describes the conference scene for the first terminal wherein the first terminal is typically placed in the center location of the conference scene. In a similar manner a set of downstream audio signals is generated for the other terminals .

In an embodiment the central conference controller is in charge of the control of the audio conference wherein the audio servers manipulate the upstream audio signals and generate the sets of downstream audio signals for their corresponding terminals subject to the control of the central conference controller . By way of example the central conference controller may not process the bearer information i.e. the actual audio data within the upstream audio signals but may process the signaling information e.g. addressing information of the called party and the calling party capabilities of the terminals etc. . The central conference controller may use the signaling information to set up an audio conference. The actual mixing of the upstream audio signals the generation of a set of downstream audio signals the generation of appropriate metadata which defines a terminal specific conference scene as well as the decoding encoding of the audio signals from into audio bitstreams may be performed by the audio servers e.g. using digital signal processors.

A terminal receives its terminal specific set of downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata and renders the set of downstream audio signals via the audio transceiver e.g. headphones or loudspeakers . For this purpose the terminal e.g. an audio processing unit comprised within the terminal may be configured to decode a set of downstream audio bitstreams in order to extract the downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata. Furthermore the audio processing unit may be configured to generate a mixed binaural audio signal for rendering by the audio transceiver wherein the mixed binaural audio signal reflects the terminal specific conference scene designed at the conference server for this terminal . In other words the audio processing unit may be configured to analyze the received metadata and to place the received set of downstream audio signals into the terminal specific conference scene. As a result the conference participant perceives a binaural audio signal which gives the conference participant at the terminal the impression that the other participants are placed at specific locations within a conference scene.

The generation of a binaural audio signal for each one of the downstream audio signals may be performed by processing the mono downstream audio signal through a spatialisation algorithm. Such an algorithm could be the filtering of the samples of the downstream audio signal using a pair of head related transfer functions HRTFs in order to provide a left and right ear signal. The HRTFs describe the filtering that would have naturally occurred between a sound source of the downstream audio signal positioned at a particular location in space and the ears of the listener. The HRTFs include all the cues for the binaural rendering of the sound such as interaural time difference interaural level difference and spectral cues. The HRTFs depend on the location of the sound source i.e. on the talker location of the downstream audio signal . A different specific pair of HRTFs may be used for each specific location within the conference scene. Alternatively the filtering characteristics for a particular location can be created by interpolation between adjacent locations that HRTFs are available for. Hence the terminal may be configured to identify the talker location of a downstream audio signal from the associated metadata. Furthermore the terminal may be configured to determine an appropriate pair of HRTFs for the identified talker location. In addition the terminal may be configured to apply the pair of HRTFs to the downstream audio signal thereby yielding a binaural audio signal which is perceived as coming from the identified talker location. If the terminal receives more than one downstream audio signal within the set of downstream audio signals the above processing may be performed for each of the downstream audio signals and the resulting binaural signals may be overlaid to yield a combined binaural signal.

It should be noted that alternatively or in addition to the generation of a mixed binaural audio signal the terminal e.g. the audio processing unit may be configured to generate a surround sound e.g. a 5.1 or a 7.1 surround sound signal which may be rendered at the terminal using appropriately placed loudspeakers . Furthermore the terminal may be configured to generate a mixed audio signal from the set of downstream audio signals for rendering using a mono loudspeaker .

In contrast to conventional monaural audio conference systems where a single mixed audio signal is transmitted from the conference server to a terminal in the audio conference system of a set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata are transmitted e.g. as bitstreams from the conference server to each terminal . In view of bandwidth limitations of an underlying communications network it may be beneficial to limit the number of audio signals e.g. bitstreams which are transmitted within a set of downstream audio signals . In the following it is assumed that N is the number of downstream audio signals comprised within a set of downstream audio signals for a particular terminal with N being an integer e.g. N

As outlined above the conference server receives up to M upstream audio signals which are placed within a 2D or 3D conference scene. The conference server may determine and analyze a degree of talker activity of the M upstream audio signals at a plurality of succeeding time instants and or at a plurality of succeeding frames . The degree of talker activity of an upstream audio signal may be based on the energy e.g. means square energy of the upstream audio signal. A conference participant and the corresponding upstream audio signal may be classified as an active talker at a particular time instant or as an inactive talker at the particular time instant based on the degree of talker activity. This classification may change from time instant to time instant. The conference server may then determine a set of downstream audio signals and associated metadata for a particular conference participant i.e. for a particular terminal by taking into account the degree of talker activity. The selection of the upstream audio signals which are inserted into the set of downstream audio signals may change from time instant to time instant as a function of the degrees of talker activity . By way of example the conference server may be configured to only consider the upstream audio signals of active talkers at a particular time instant for the set of downstream audio signals .

As a result of taking into account a degree of talker activity the conference server may be configured to reduce the required bandwidth for transmitting the sets of downstream audio signals to the different terminals . In case of a single active talker the set of downstream audio signals might only comprise a single audio signal i.e. the upstream audio signal of the active talker thereby significantly reducing the bandwidth on the communication link between the conference server and the terminal . The set of downstream audio signals may nonetheless comprise or be associated with metadata indicating the spatial location of the active talker s . Hence the terminal may nonetheless be enabled to render the audio signals of the active talkers in a spatialized manner. The metadata may change from time instant to time instant along with the change of talker activity. Hence the metadata may indicate at each time instant the spatial arrangement of the active talker s reflected within the set of downstream audio signals .

As a further measure to reduce bandwidth discontinuous transmission may be used from the source devices i.e. from a terminal to the conference server . By way of example the terminal may be configured to determine the degree of talker activity based on the audio signal recorded at the terminal . If the degree of talker activity is low e.g. below a pre determined energy threshold the terminal may be configured to discontinue the transmission of the upstream audio signal from the terminal to the server thereby reducing the required bandwidth. Hence talkers may be assigned to the same spatial locations within the conference scene but will only cause a conflict if the talkers talk at the same time.

In a distributed architecture a terminal is configured to send its upstream audio signal e.g. as a bitstream to the other participating terminals via a communication network . For this purpose the terminal may use multicasting schemes and or direct addressing schemes of the other participating terminals . Hence in case of M participating terminals each terminal receives up to M 1 downstream audio signals e.g. as bitstreams which correspond to the upstream audio signals of the M 1 other terminals . The local conference controller of a receiving terminal is configured to place the received downstream audio signals into a 2D or 3D conference scene wherein the receiving terminal is typically placed in the center of the conference scene. The audio processing unit of the receiving terminal is configured to generate a mixed binaural signal from the received downstream audio signals wherein the mixed binaural signal reflects the 2D or 3D conference scene designed by the local conference controller . The mixed binaural signal is then rendered by the audio transceiver . It should be noted that the centralized conference system and the decentralized conference system may be combined to form hybrid architectures. By way of example the terminal may also be used in conjunction with a conference server e.g. while other users may use terminals . In an example embodiment the terminal receives a set of downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata from the conference server . The local conference controller within the terminal may set up the conference scene provided by the conference server as a default scene. In addition a user of the terminal may be enabled to modify the default scene provided by the conference server .

Alternatively or in addition the components of the conference server may be distributed within a network e.g. in order to reduce the bandwidth required by the audio conference. By way of example the central conference controller may be positioned at a first position e.g. a central position and the audio servers may be positioned in one or more other different positions within a network. This may be beneficial in order to select positions for the audio servers which reduce the overall network capacity required for handling the audio conference. It may e.g. be beneficial to place the audio servers according to the regional distribution of the participating terminals of the audio conference. The communication between the audio servers and the central conference controller may be limited to signaling information without the need to exchange the actual audio data . In the following reference will be made to the centralized conference system . It should be noted however that the disclosure is also applicable to the decentralized architecture and any hybrid forms of conference systems.

The conference system may be configured to automatically determine the talker locations of a conference scene based on one or more of a plurality of placement rules. These placement rules are based on perceptual tests where talkers were placed at different locations within a conference scene and where the preferred rendering locations for a listener were determined. These perceptual experiments have shown that

Some or all of the above mentioned rules may be used to define default scenes with default talker locations . Furthermore some or all of these rules may be used to specify a deterministic behavior of an automatic scene manager e.g. embodied by the central conference controller and or the local conference controller . The scene manager may be configured to automatically place participants into a conference scene as the participants enter the conference scene . In other words the scene manager running on the central conference controller and or on the local conference controller may be configured to automatically determine the talker location of a new conference participant based on a default conference scene and based on the participants which are already placed within the conference scene .

In the following an example three point scene manager populating a default three point conference scene and an example six point scene manager populating a default six point conference scene are described. It should be noted that using the placement rules described in the present document general X point scenes and corresponding X point scene managers may be specified with X being an integer X 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 e.g. X M 1 for conferences having M conference participants placed at different spatial locations .

Typically the actual number of talkers in an audio conference is not known when the conference starts. Hence the scene manager may be configured to add conference participants to the pre determined X point scene when the conference participants call in. In particular the scene manager may be configured to assign a particular location within the pre determined X point scene to a joining participant. For this purpose the scene manager may make use of a set of rules for adding or removing conference participants into the pre determined X point scene. Example placement rules may be

The above mentioned placement rules may be used alone or in combination in order to place a new participant into an X point scene. As such the new participants may be added to the conference scene from the inner points of the X point scene outwards and or in such a way as to maximize the balance around the centre talker location of the X point scene or the midline of the scene. If the number of talkers M 1 in the conference scene exceeds the number of talker locations X of the X point scene the scene manager may be configured to assign multiple talkers to the same talker location. For the three point scene illustrated in upstream participants could be placed by the scene manager as follows 

Please note that in the present document angular values are either denoted by the symbol the term degrees or possibly both. For the six point scene new conference participants could join the scene as follows using as a reference 

A particular six point scene which has shown to have particularly good properties with regards to the ability of a listener to distinguish the different participants placed at the different talker locations makes use of the following angles for the talker locations . This particular six point scene satisfies the constraint of minimum separation between adjacent talker locations stays within a 20 cone and is slightly asymmetric with regards to the midline 

The above mentioned description of default scenes has been limited to an example three and an example six point scene . It should be noted that other numbers of points within a scene are also possible ranging from a two point scene manager up to an M 1 point scene for a conference with M participants . The number of points within a scene is typically only limited by the design and placement rules described in the present document. Furthermore it should be noted that the indicated values of angles are examples only. The selected angle values may vary by 1 degree or 2 degrees. As such the angle values described in the present document should be understood as approximate indications.

It should be noted that instead of or in addition to assigning multiple talkers to the same talker location e.g. as the number of talkers M 1 exceeds the number X of talker locations the scene manager may be configured to upgrade the conference scene to a conference scene having a higher number of talker locations e.g. from a 3 point scene to a 6 point scene . By way of example the scene manager e.g. the conference server may prompt an organizer of the audio conference located at one of the terminals whether the conference scene should be upgraded e.g. subject to a premium fee . If accepted the scene manager may transfer the conference participants to the upgraded conference scene. By doing this the size of the conference scene can be flexibly adapted to the actual number of conference participants. Furthermore conference scenes with different sizes may be provided by a conference service provider as a value added service.

It should be noted that alternatively or in addition to a horizontal distribution of talkers within a conference scene the conference scene may be extended vertically notably if the endpoint is capable of 3D rendering. For example the same azimuth angular separation may be used between different talker locations but with an elevation separation of e.g. 10 degrees. In this way layers of talkers can be created thereby further increasing the possibilities for spatial separation of different talkers within a conference. In more general terms the plurality of talker locations within a conference scene may be described by an azimuth angle with a horizontal plane in front of the head of the listener wherein the horizontal plane comprises the midline and an inclination angle within a vertical plane in front of the head of the listener wherein the vertical plane comprises the midline . The conference scene may comprise a plurality of rows of talker locations each talker location within a row being described by a different azimuth angle and a same inclination angle wherein each row is positioned at a different inclination angle .

In the following various schemes for reducing the required network resources for an audio conference are outlined. As discussed above the audio conference systems described in the present document are directed at allowing a binaural rendering or a multi channel rendering of a conference scene at the terminals of an audio conference. The binaural rendering should allow for the placement of a talker in the conference scene within a 2D or 3D space. This is in contrast to the mixing i.e. adding of two mono audio signals together into a single mono signal which does not allow for a spatial separation of the two audio signals . The binaural rendering of the talkers in a conference scene could be implemented at various locations within the conference system. The example conference system of makes use of a centralized conference server which generates metadata that specifies how a corresponding set of downstream audio signals is to be combined in order to form a specific conference scene. A binaural signal which reflects the specific conference scene is determined at a respective terminal thereby allowing the binaural rendering to flexibly adapt to the rendering characteristics of the audio transceiver at the terminal also referred to as an endpoint . Typically the generation of a binaural signal is based on the set of downstream audio signals and is based on the placement information comprised within the metadata. Furthermore the generation of a binaural signal may be dependent on the type of audio transceiver e.g. loudspeaker or headphone . A centralized conference server may not be aware of the type of audio transceiver used in a terminal and it may therefore be beneficial to perform the generation of the binaural signal at the terminal .

By way of example the endpoint may need to dynamically adapt during an audio conference. For example the listener at the endpoint may start the audio conference by using a binaural headset. At a later stage the listener may be joined in the room by a second conference participant so they disconnect the binaural headset and use the endpoint loudspeakers and microphone so they can both participate. Consequently the rendering of the conference scene would need to be adapted in order to switch from headphones to loudspeakers. As such the endpoint may be configured to adapt the rendering of the 2D or 3D conference scene to the audio transceiver used at the endpoint .

Hence it may be beneficial to transmit a set of up to M 1 individual downstream audio signals corresponding to the M 1 talkers within an audio conference and associated metadata to a terminal . If the conference scene is limited to X talker locations then multiple talkers may have been assigned to the same talker locations. The audio signals of talkers which have been assigned to the same talker locations may be mixed in order to form a downstream audio signal for the respective talker location. As such a set of up to X downstream audio signals corresponding to the X talker locations of an X point conference scene and associated metadata may be sent to the terminal . The terminal may be configured to render the 2D or 3D X point conference scene using the set of downstream audio signals and the associated metadata. Furthermore the terminal e.g. the terminal may be configured to modify the conference scene using a local conference controller e.g. to swap talkers and talker locations to shift the conference scene etc. . However in order to enable the terminal to perform a binaural or a multi channel rendering of the X point conference scene a set of up to X individual downstream audio signals and associated metadata have to be transmitted to the terminal .

Alternatively the binaural signal for a terminal may be generated at the conference server . This may be beneficial with regards to the required bandwidth on the link between the conference server and the terminal as the transmission of a binaural signal i.e. a stereo signal may require less bandwidth than the transmission of the set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata which are typically transmitted in the form of a bitstream e.g. a G.711 a G722.2 AMR WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wide Band an MPEG2 or an MPEG 4 bitstream . On the other hand the generation of the binaural signal at the conference server allows for less flexibility with regards to the audio transceiver used at the destination terminal and or with regards to the manipulation of the conference scene at the destination terminal also referred to as the listener terminal .

When performing the generation of a binaural signal at the terminals as outlined in the context of the number of audio signals of a set of downstream audio signals may be limited to a maximum number of N simultaneous active audio signals wherein N is smaller than the number of participants M e.g. N

It should be noted that the N downstream audio signals may be provided along with corresponding metadata. As such the terminal may be enabled to render the N downstream audio signals in a spatialized manner. By way of example even if N 1 the single downstream audio signal may be transmitted along with metadata indicating where to place the single downstream audio signal in a 2D or 3D spatial conference scene. If only a single talker is active the downstream audio signal corresponding to the upstream audio signal of the single active talker could be placed at the talker location of the single talker. This is different from a conventional mono rendering with no spatialization . Only in case of multiple talkers and N 1 the spatial disambiguation of the multiple talkers would be lost due to a mixing of the multiple talkers into a single downstream audio signal.

As outlined above the conference server may comprise a central conference controller and a plurality of audio servers . The conference controller may be configured to define the placement of conference participants in the conference scene. Furthermore the conference controller may be configured to determine whether the audio signals of one or more conference participants need to be mixed which audio signals should be mixed and a priority of the mixing operations. In other words the conference controller may be configured to

As such there are at least two elements to a mixing strategy used by the conference controller . These elements are to determine which talkers are to be mixed together and to determine where the final spatial location for the mixed talkers lies within the conference scene. By way of example for a six point scene the conference controller may be configured to identify adjacently placed angles i.e. talker locations for mixing. This allows for a reduction from a six point scene down to a three point scene if N 3 . This is illustrated in an example six point conference scene in . If there are only four people speaking in the scene then the preferred mixing strategy could be to mix cluster and or cluster if talkers at these locations are active in order to reduce the number of audio signals to the maximum number of N 3. Only if this is not sufficient talkers within Cluster may be mixed at the server . As will be outlined in further detail below the mixing is typically performed based on an analysis of talker activity. This means that at each of a plurality of time instants the number of active upstream audio signals may be determined. If the number of active upstream audio signals at a particular time instant is greater than N some or all of the active upstream audio signals may be mixed in accordance to the mixing rules described in the present document .

In yet other words the conference controller may be configured to mix audio streams i.e. mix audio signals based on the number of streams which are present within the conference and based on a maximum number of allowable streams. If the number of streams exceeds N streams then a mixing strategy is applied to limit the number of streams which are transmitted to an endpoint . The mixing strategy may comprise the mixing rule to always mix large eccentricities first. Furthermore the conference controller may be configured to place the mixed stream at one of the two or more pre defined talker locations where the mixed streams had originally been placed. Alternatively the mixed stream may be placed somewhere between the two or more pre defined talker locations. In a preferred implementation a mixed stream is placed midway between the talker locations of the streams that have been mixed. The conference controller may perform the mixing of talkers that are placed near the midline of a conference scene e.g. cluster of only as a last resort i.e. with reduced priority .

As discussed above the mixing of the audio signals of the conference participants is typically only required if the number of active talkers i.e. M 1 for a conference having M participants exceeds the maximum number N of allowed audio signals within a set of audio signals and or if the number of active talkers M 1 exceeds the number of talker locations within the X point scene i.e. M 1 X . By way of example the mixing within a six point scene is only required when there are 4 or more talkers. In this instance the scene is busy and therefore small movements of sounds will be difficult to notice. In other words as the number of participants in a conference increases i.e. as the conference becomes busy spatial movements of sounds which results from the mixing of audio signals tend to be less perceivable by a listener .

The audio servers may be configured to implement the mix of audio signals as defined by the conference controller . In other words the audio server may process the audio signals and perform the merging of the audio signals. In yet other words in a packet based communication network the audio servers may make decisions on a packet by packet basis of the audio signals whether to implement a mix in order to reduce the total number of streams. By way of example the audio servers may be configured to determine the degree of activity of the M upstream audio signals at each of a plurality of succeeding time instants wherein the time instants may e.g. coincide with the packets of an audio bitstream . The conference controller may analyze the degrees of activity and decide on a selection and or mixing of upstream audio signals to bring down the total number of downstream audio signals to the allowed maximum of N. Furthermore the conference controller may provide the placement information regarding the N downstream audio signals. The actual mixing and the generation of the metadata may then be performed by the audio servers based on the decisions and placement information provided by the conference controller.

The above examples for limiting the number of audio streams towards a terminal to a maximum number of N audio streams are based on a fixed selection of possibly mixed audio streams which are transmitted to the terminal . Typically the number of active talkers within a conference is limited. In an ideal and highly organized audio conference there would be only one active talker while the other conference participants would be listening. As such it might be sufficient in such a highly organized audio conference to only transmit a single audio stream i.e. the audio stream of the active talker along with metadata indicating the placement of the active talker within the conference scene. As another participant located at a different talker location becomes the active talker the single transmitted audio stream may be changed to be the audio stream corresponding to the new active talker along with metadata indicating the new talker location. As such all the different talkers may be rendered at the terminal at their respective talker locations while at the same time only transmitting a single audio stream and related metadata .

In more general terms the conference controller may be configured to dynamically select the set of N downstream audio signals based on a degree of talker activity of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals placed within an X point conference scene. At a particular time instant the conference controller may select the N most active ones of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals for transmission towards the terminal along with the relevant metadata for placing the selected audio signals within the conference scene . The selection of audio signals for transmission to the terminal may be repeated for succeeding time instants e.g. every 1 second or every 100 ms . As such the number X of spatial locations which can be rendered at a terminal may be maintained while at the same time providing a reduced number N of audio streams which are transmitted to the terminal . In an embodiment the N 1 most active ones of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals are selected for transmission towards the terminal . As such the N 1 most active talkers may be rendered in a spatialized manner at the terminal .

In the present document various aspects for managing a 2D or 3D scene of an audio conference have been described. The aspects may be provided in the context of an API Application Programming Interface or a GUI Graphical User Interface in order to allow developers of a voice conference system or users of a voice conference system to manage the placement of voice signals originating from the different conference participants and or sound signals e.g. notifications voice prompts music into a conference scene. The present document provides rules and logic which may be used by a scene manager to reduce a number of individual audio signals which are transmitted to the terminal of a listener and to thereby reduce the bandwidth on a communication link between the conference server and the terminal of the listener.

The methods and systems described in the present document may be implemented as software firmware and or hardware. Certain components may e.g. be implemented as software running on a digital signal processor or microprocessor. Other components may e.g. be implemented as hardware and or as application specific integrated circuits. The signals encountered in the described methods and systems may be stored on media such as random access memory or optical storage media. They may be transferred via networks such as radio networks satellite networks wireless networks or wireline networks e.g. the Internet. Typical devices making use of the methods and systems described in the present document are portable electronic devices or other consumer equipment which are used to store and or render audio signals.

