---

title: Community authoring content generation and navigation
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for creating socially authored, or community authored, summaries of documents and/or for navigating a forum comprising such summaries. In one embodiment, at least some of the summaries are generated automatically when a document is written and/or discovered (e.g., by a web crawler), for example. In another embodiment, the documents are created by users of the forum. A plurality of summaries of a document may be created (e.g., by different users), and users can provide feedback, such as comments or ratings, that may assist other users in identifying which summary or summaries better describe the document. Moreover, the users can navigate the forum and retrieve summaries by browsing categories (and subcategories) to identify a topic of interest and/or by performing a search based upon user inputted search term(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262483&OS=09262483&RS=09262483
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09262483
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 816 689 filed on Jun. 16 2010 entitled COMMUNITY AUTHORING CONTENT GENERATION AND NAVIGATION at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

Information is being produced in the world at a prodigious rate. For example in the medical informatics field the number of publications each year has more than doubled in the last decade. While such growth brings with it enormous possibilities it is becoming increasingly difficult to stay current with advancements in a particular field. To decipher all of this information numerous tools have been developed that help an interested party both understand the field and provide input into the field. For example websites have been created that provide user generated or society generated encyclopedias. Such tools provide a starting point and sometimes an ending point for researching a particular area of interest. While these tools have proven very useful for synthesizing information their features and thus their utility have been limited. For example such tools typically do not inform readers where to go to find recently published articles on a topic and or allow users to create multiple articles on the same topic.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for generating summaries of documents and displaying the generated summaries are provided herein. Such summaries may be socially authored by users of a forum e.g. website and may or may not be modifiable by users other than the original author of the summary. Moreover at least a portion of the summaries comprised in a summary data store which stores summaries configured to be displayed in the forum may be automatically generated using analytic iterative or other content generating techniques known to those skilled in the art. In this way a socially authored forum which comprises a plurality of document summaries can be created and navigated.

As will be understood to those skilled in the art a summary is generally a brief description or synopsis of a document and is intended to provide a user with insight into the document e.g. so that a user can make a decision whether or not to read more of the document . The summary may be a summary of a technical document dissertation journal article book etc. As described herein the text of the summary may also comprise links to other summaries documents webpages etc. For example the summary may comprise a link to a second summary e.g. of another document which provides background information that is relevant to the topic being described in the document to which the summary relates. Such links may be inserted by the author or may be automatically inserted into the summary after the summary has been generated e.g. by the author or by an automated summary generation technique .

Summaries or links e.g. hyperlinks to summaries are displayed to a user of the forum when the user performs a search and or selects a topic from a plurality of topics. In one embodiment as summaries are read by users of the forum the users may be provided an option to rank and or comment on the summary. In this way a user that generated a summary may be provided feedback e.g. which may provide suggestions to the author for improving the summary . Moreover in one embodiment an aggregated rank e.g. based upon rankings provided from a plurality of users and or comments about the respective summaries can be used to order a plurality of summaries of a document when the summaries or links to the summaries are displayed to a user. Further the aggregated rank and or comments may provide insight to users that are attempting to select which summary of a document to read for the first time for example.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Society s recognition and appreciation for socially authored content or community authored content has increased exponentially in the past few years. The speed of innovation makes it difficult for a limited number of well trained specialized writers e.g. traditional encyclopedia writers to thoroughly describe innovations in a timely manner. Moreover these specialized writers have to pick and chose which innovations are most significant to discuss because the speed of innovation outpaces the capabilities of the writers.

Today one of the most popular websites in the U.S. is a website pertaining to socially authored content. More particularly it comprises encyclopedia like entries that are created and modified by users of the website. On any given day users can go to this and other similar websites to find out information on a wide spectrum of topics including the background of a particular restaurant or person the development of a technology etc. Socially authored tools such as websites that provide users with a forum to write articles pertaining to a topic of interest provide enormous benefits to society. The large pool of writers e.g. anyone who visits the website allows for more topics to be discussed e.g. better keeping pace with innovation and discovery . Moreover because not all of the writers are specialized in the given field the writings are typically understandable by a larger audience than technical papers written specifically for those skilled in the art for example.

While current tools have proven effective for the aforementioned reasons their features or lack of features have limited their adoption in some fields and or limited their scope and or utility. For example such tools typically provide a single entry on a given topic. Thus users must work together to create an entry that is amicable to a plurality of users interested in the topic. If a user disagrees with the structure and or content of the entry the user cannot create his her own entry on the topic and let other users decide which entry is more appropriate. Moreover current tools do not typically point to recently published documents that may provide additional insight into a given topic and or may closely parallel the topic of the entry. At best the current tools allow for the citation of references. However it will be appreciated that such references may not be on topic. Rather the references may contain only a single sentence that indirectly pertains to the topic for example.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for creating and or sharing one or more summaries indicative of a document are provided herein. In one embodiment a forum e.g. internet website intranet website etc. is created that allows users of the forum to create and or share one or more summaries pertaining to a given document e.g. book technical paper medical paper etc. . The summaries may be saved in a database and later recalled when a user selects to view summaries of the given document for example. It will be appreciated that summaries may be recalled using numerous techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example the user may conduct a query e.g. search and or may browse through categories of topics to narrow a search to summaries related to the given document or given specialty within a much larger field. Users may also vote or otherwise rank which of a plurality of summaries of the given document he she prefers. In this way future users may be provided insight into which summary of a document to view first.

It will be appreciated that the term summary is used broadly herein to refer to an abbreviated e.g. shorter version of a document and a document is likewise to be broadly interpreted to comprise a mass of content such as a book online article technical document movie literature concept etc. Generally the summary highlights or focuses on major points of a document and is intended to give a reader of the summary a brief understanding of the document to which the summary relates. For example a summary maybe a one paragraph or one page synopsis of a 300 page book that describes the general thesis of the book.

An exemplary system for providing one or more summaries indicative of a document is illustrated in . The system comprises a summary data store such as a database central repository etc. configured to store one or more summaries of a document s . As will be discussed below such summaries can be generated programmatically e.g. automatically using analytic iterative or other content generation techniques known to those skilled in the art. Summaries can also be generated by users such as the illustrated user and stored in the summary data store for later retrieval e.g. to be displayed to other users upon request . For example the user may read a book dissertation etc. and create a summary of the book dissertation etc. That summary may then be stored in the summary data store . As will be described below other users e.g. future users of the forum can retrieve these author generated and or programmatically generated summaries to determine which books dissertations etc. are relevant to the respective users for example.

It will be appreciated that in one embodiment author generated and or programmatically generated summaries may be modified by other users e.g. to create a summary authored by numerous users and the modified summaries may be stored in the summary data store . In another embodiment an author generated and or a programmatically generated summary of a document may not be modified and a future user may create a second summary of the same document and store the second summary in the summary data store e.g. such that the summary data store comprises numerous summaries of the same document .

The exemplary system also comprises a summary retrieval component configured to receive requests e.g. from a client device to retrieve one or more summaries from the summary data store . For example the user may open an application that comprises a user interface e.g. an internet browser configured to display a webpage . Such a user interface may comprise a search field wherein the user can input one or more text strings. Using the inputted text the client device may issue a request through a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN etc. for summaries related to the text string s for example. In another example the user may navigate a hierarchy tree wherein requests can be made and summaries or links to summaries can retrieved based upon user selections. For example navigating the user interface the user may begin by selecting a general topic such as medicine and the client device may send a request for summaries pertaining to medicine through the network to the summary retrieval component . Based upon the received request the summary retrieval component may be configured to retrieve summaries pertaining to medicine from the summary data store for example. Moreover instead of or in combination with the summaries the summary retrieval component may be configured to retrieve the articles upon which the summaries are based from the summary data store or another similar data store and or links indicative of more specialized topics within field of medicine e.g. cardiovascular orthopedic etc. . Using such links the user may navigate to a topic of interest e.g. starting with a broad field medicine and narrowing the field down to a desired topic recent MRI developments within the broader field by repeatedly narrowing the scope of summary retrieval through multiple requests for example .

The example system also comprises a summary ranking component that is configured to store information on the popularity or likability of a particular article based upon one or more user provided metrics. For example once a summary has been retrieved from the summary data store e.g. by the summary retrieval component and displayed to the user through the user interface the user may rank the summary on a numeric scale e.g. 1 10 using a field in the user interface based upon its usefulness and or the insight the summary provided into a document associated with the summary. In another embodiment the user may be able to select whether he she liked or disliked the summary using the user interface . Using such user provided information derived from a plurality of client devices e.g. respectively associated with different users the summary ranking component may determine the popularity of a summary or other metric that may be insightful to a user using analytic iterative or other techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example the summary ranking component may determine that ninety percent of those who rated the summary believed the summary was insightful and may store such ranking information related to the summary. As will be discussed below with respect to a summary ordering component such information may be particularly relevant where there are multiple summaries associated with a single document.

It will be appreciated that in another embodiment the summary ranking component may programmatically or automatically determine the ranking of a summary without receiving user input. For example in one embodiment the summary ranking component may determine a rank of a first summary associated with an article relative to other summaries associated with the same article based upon analytical iterative or other ranking techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example the summary ranking component may identify unique terms in the document and may rank the summaries related to the document based upon the number of matching unique terms. Thus a summary with more unique terms that match those that are in the document is ranked higher than other summaries related to the document that have fewer matching unique terms. In this way summaries that are not ranked based upon user input e.g. because user rankings have not been received on the summaries and or summaries that have been ranked by few users may be ranked for example.

The ranking from the summary ranking component may be useful to determine an order of the summaries that are displayed on the user interface or rather when a link to the summaries are displayed on the user interface and or to provide other users with information about the summaries. In this way users may be guided to a summary that is more relevant or useful for example. That is a user may be guided to a summary that better describes the document to which the summary is related e.g. relative to other summaries related to the document .

The example system also comprises a summary ordering component that is configured to order or rank the summaries based upon ranking metrics from the summary ranking component . Stated differently the summary ordering component is configured to determine how summaries or links directing a user to respective summaries are ordered when they appear on the user interface to a user . For example if a client device issues a request for summaries related to a particular document and five summaries are retrieved from the summary data store by the summary retrieval component the summary ordering component may determine which summary appears first e.g. at a top of a list and which summary appears fifth e.g. at the bottom of the list based upon information from the summary ranking component . It this way summaries that have been determined to be more relevant or more on point for example are distinguished from summaries which have been determined to be less relevant or less on point. Thus a user who has not already viewed the summaries may be guided to a summary that is more liked or more highly regarded by a majority of users that have already read the summaries related to the given document.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the example system is merely one example embodiment. Other embodiments may comprise different components and or the functionally described with respect to respective components may be combined such that one component may perform the functions of two or more of the described components. For example in another embodiment the summary ranking component and the summary ordering component may be combined into a single component. In other embodiment the functions of the respective components may differ from the described functionality. For example in another embodiment the summary data store may store the summary ranking information instead of the summary ranking component for example.

The example user interface also comprises a search limitations field that comprises one or more options that a user may select to limit the scope of a search the number of summaries retrieved etc. For example in the example user interface the search limitations field comprises boxes that a user may check to specify the length of retrieved summaries and or boxes that a user may check to specify whether the retrieved summaries are limited to programmatically generated summaries e.g. computer generated summaries and or author generated summaries. It will be understood to those skilled in the art that the example search limitations are not an exhaustive list of limitations. That is other limitations may be comprised in the search limitations field and or one or both of the listed limitations may be excluded from the search limitations field. For example in another embodiment the user interface may comprise a field or box that allows the user to specify the number of summaries retrieved from a summary data store e.g. in .

As illustrated the example user interface comprises a search field e.g. in configured to receive user input e.g. if a new search is to be performed . For example a user e.g. in may refine a search using the search field after a first search returns unsatisfactory results. Further the example user interface comprises a field for displaying search results based upon a previously made request from a client device. The search results may comprise the actual summaries themselves and or links directing a user to the summaries.

As illustrated the field for displaying search results comprises four search results e.g. summary summary summary summary arranged according to their popularity which may be derived from users that had previously read the summary. For example as will be described below in one embodiment users that read the summary may have the option to specify whether they like or dislike the summary. Based upon this user feedback a summary ranking component e.g. in for example may determine the popularity of the article or rather the percentage of users who like the summary relative to the percentage of users who dislike the summary. Using the information generated by the summary ranking component a summary ordering component e.g. in for example may arrange the retrieved summaries prior to the summaries being displayed in the user interface . In this way retrieved summaries may be arranged in a manner that may assist the user in determining which summaries are more relevant or provide a better synopsis of a document to which the plurality of summaries relate.

It will be appreciated that as illustrated the search results also specify the number of comments that have been made by other users about the respective summaries. Stated differently in one embodiment users that have viewed a summary may leave comments about the summary e.g. suggestions to improve the summary criticism questions etc. and the number of comments may also appear in the field for displaying search results . It will be understood to those skilled in the art that the comments may be stored with their respective summaries in the summary data store e.g. in and or in another storage medium and the number of comments or the comments themselves may be retrieved when the summary or a link to the summary is retrieved by the summary retrieval component e.g. in from the summary data store for example.

The text of the summary generally relates to a document e.g. a dissertation technical journal article book etc. and is written by another user of the forum e.g. internet site intranet site etc. and or a computer program configured to generate the summary using analytic iterative or other summary generation techniques know to those skilled in the art. Moreover in one embodiment the text of the summary may comprise links that direct a user to other summaries articles webpages etc. that pertain to the topic for example. For example Summary One may be an abbreviated summary of a document and the author for example who created the first summary may link the summary to other summaries related to the same document so that readers can gain more insight into the document e.g. by selecting the link to another summary which provides greater insight into a particular aspect of the document . Moreover the summary can link to other summaries or documents which describe related works such as background works that may be insightful to a user reading the summary for example.

The example user interface also comprises a comment section wherein users that read the summary can leave comments. For example a user may compose a comment in the comment section that suggests modifications to the summary and or that otherwise critic the summary. In another example a user may leave a comment describing another document that may be pertinent to users who read this particular summary and may include a link to the pertinent document and or a summary of the pertinent document for example. Stated differently the comment section provides an open forum in which users can freely write and question e.g. subject to limitations by a moderator of the forum in which the summary is hosted .

The example user interface also comprises a ratings section in which a user can rank the summary e.g. relative to other summaries of the document and or provide insight into the importance usefulness of the summary. For example as illustrated a user may select whether they like or dislike an article using the like box and a dislike box . It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the selection of like box or dislike box from a plurality of users may be used to rank the summary relative to other summaries related to a document e.g. using a summary ranking component in . It will also be appreciated that while the example ratings section comprises a like box and a dislike box in other embodiments the user interface may comprise other options for a user to rank or evaluate a summary. For example in another embodiment the ratings section may comprise a numerical scale e.g. 1 10 and a user can select the appropriate rating e.g. where 1 indicates a bad summary and 10 indicates an insightful summary .

In one embodiment the user interface also comprises a summary modification field not shown comprising tools which a user can select to modify at least a portion of the summary. For example a user reading Summary One may believe that additional information would be useful on a particular aspect of the summary and may select a link for example in the summary modification field which would unlock the summary so that the user could change the text of the summary. Further the summary modification field may comprise a box for inserting a link into the summary. For example using such a box a user can insert a link into the summary which is directed to another summary and or document for example.

It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the ability to modify a previously created summary may be limited e.g. by a moderator of the forum . For example in one embodiment the user that created the summary may be granted privileges to modify the summary but other users may not be granted such privileges e.g. other users can leave comments but not change the actual text of the summary . In another embodiment any user may be granted privileges to modify the summary. In yet another embodiment a first group of users e.g. editors may be granted privileges to modify the summary but other users including the original author of the summary for example may not be entitled to modify the summary e.g. unless the original author is part of the first group of users.

For example at illustrated in links respectively associated with at least one category of a first set of categories may be displayed to a user e.g. in in a user interface e.g. in on a monitor of a client device e.g. in when a user opens a program associated with the user interface or accesses a website that causes the user interface to be displayed. The first set of categories generally are broad and cover a wide array of topics. The user may select a link associated with at least one category e.g. medicine of the first set of categories and a second set of links associated with a second set of categories may be displayed based upon the selected first category e.g. medicine . Stated differently based upon the selected category a request may be generated by the client device. The request may provide information pertaining to which category was selected and request that a second set of links associated with a second set of categories e.g. falling within the umbrella of the selected category from the first set of categories be retrieved from a summary data store for example and displayed to the user in the user interface. For example as illustrated the second set of categories relate to medicine because the selected category in the first set of categories was medicine . It will be appreciated that if a link indicative of another category such as sports was selected the second set of categories would relate to sports instead of medicine for example.

The acts of selecting categories to narrow the scope of categories also referred to as browsing categories may be repeated until summaries related to documents on a topic of interest are retrieved. For example in the illustrated embodiment a user may select a link associated with the category of cardiovascular medicine from the second set of categories and links associated with a third set of categories related to cardiovascular medicine may be displayed in the user interface. The user may then select a link associated with the third set of categories e.g. cardiovascular surgery and a plurality of summaries or links to a plurality of summaries associated with documents on cardiovascular surgery may be displayed to the user in the user interface.

It will be appreciated that in another embodiment a hierarchical arrangement as described with respect to may be used in conjunction with a search field as described with respect to . For example a user may begin a search by selecting a link to a category of interest. Once the link is selected the user may enter a search term and a search may be performed within the category of interest. For example the user may select a link associated with medicine from the first set of categories and a subsequent search e.g. based upon one or more search terms may be limited to summaries of documents within the category of medicine e.g. summaries of documents related to sports may be excluded from the search . In this way the scope of a search may be limited to categories and summaries indicative of documents associated only with the category of interest for example.

It will be appreciated that automatic summary generation is not time specific. That is the summary may be generated at any time. For example in one embodiment the first summary is automatically generated when the underlying document is created and or discovered e.g. by a web crawler . In another embodiment the first summary is automatically created when a user searches for summaries related to the document in the summary data store. That is the summary may be automatically created because no summaries of the document previously existed in the data store for example and a user has recently searched for summaries of the document in the data store and or selected a linking pointing to summaries of the document. Stated differently automatic summary generation may be used when no summaries of a document exist in a summary data store but a user has selected to view a previously non existent summary of the document for example.

In another embodiment the first summary is generated by an author e.g. a user of the forum . That is the author of the summary reads a document and writes a summary of the document briefly describing the contents of the document. In one embodiment such as where the forum in which the summaries are displayed is a webpage the author may be one of many users to the webpage and at least a plurality of the users may be responsible for writing summaries which are displayed on the webpage. In this way a webpage comprising socially authored content also referred to as community authored content may be created. The webpage may comprise a plurality of summaries of the same and or different documents authored by a plurality of different users for example.

In one embodiment the author may insert links into the first summary which direct readers of the summary to other summaries documents webpages etc. that provide additional information on a topic discussed in the summary and or provide relevant insight into the document and or summary. In another embodiment such links may be inserted automatically using analytic iterative or other link insertion techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example in one embodiment where the summary comprises a term that is not generally known and or commonly used a link may be inserted automatically and or by the author directing the user to a webpage containing a definition of the term. In another example links may be inserted automatically and or by the author that direct users to other summaries which discuss background information for the summary or the document to which the summary relates .

At the first summary generated automatically or by an author is stored in a storage medium or a summary data store e.g. in for later retrieval by the author or another user to the forum. Such a storage medium may also comprise other summaries of the same and or other documents that are automatically generated created by the author and or created by other users of the forum. In this way the storage medium may comprise a plurality of socially authored summaries for example.

At user input e.g. from the author or another user to the forum is received. For example as described with respect to a search string or request generated based upon the received search string indicative of at least one of the first summary the document to which the first summary relates and or a category e.g. medicine sports etc. to which the first summary relates maybe received. In another embodiment as described with respect to the user input that is received may be a category selection that the user has browsed to and selected e.g. cardiovascular surgery . That is the user may select a category and then select one or more subcategories within the category until a desired subcategory is identified and selected by a user at which time a request for summaries related to the subcategory may be retrieved .

At at least the first summary is displayed to a first user based upon the received user input. That is the summary data store may be searched for one or more summaries that satisfy the user input and such summaries or links to such summaries may be displayed to the user.

It will be appreciated that the summaries or links to the summaries that are displayed to the user are a function of the user input that is received. For example in one embodiment the user input that is received may comprise length selection data e.g. as described with respect to and summaries that would otherwise satisfy the user input e.g. are related to a document the user searched for may not be displayed. For example in one embodiment there are two summaries of a document stored in the summary data store one of the two summaries being a page long and the other summary being half a page long. If the user merely searches for summaries related to the document both of the summaries may be displayed. However if the user further limits the search by specifying that the retrieved summaries be a page long e.g. the user input comprises length selection data the page long summary of the document may be displayed and the half page summary may not be displayed. Conversely if the user limits the search to half page summaries the half page summary may be displayed but the page long summary may not.

At feedback related to the first summary is received from the first user. That is the user reads the summary and provides feedback about the summary. For example in one embodiment the user may provide a comment e.g. suggestion question etc. about the first summary. Such a comment may provide the author of the summary with information with which he she can modify the summary. Further the comment may provide other users e.g. future readers of the summary with additional information that may be relevant to others. For example the first user may provide background information which helps other users better understand the summary and or may provide a link to other sources which provide such background information.

In another embodiment the feedback may comprise a ranking or other metric that may be used to provide other users with information on the usefulness or relevance of the summary to the document for example. For example in one embodiment the first user may rank on a scale of 1 10 how accurately he she believes the summary describes the document. In another embodiment the first user may select whether he she likes or dislikes the summary. Such feedback from the first user may be aggregated with the feedback from other users that have read and ranked the summary to determine the popularity of the summary for example. In this way future users that are looking for a summary of the document may be provided some insight into how others felt about the article e.g. so that the user can select a summary of the document that a majority of users have believed is well written .

At the first summary is ranked relative to a second summary of the document based upon the received feedback. Stated differently where there are at least two summaries of a document the summaries may be ranked or ordered based upon the received feedback. In one example such summaries are ranked such that the summary that has received in the aggregate a higher rating by users e.g. a higher numerical rating on a scale of 1 10 more likes etc. is ranked above a second summary of the document which has received lower rating.

In one embodiment as described in the first and second summaries can be displayed to a second user e.g. a future user based upon their relative rankings. For example if the first summary is ranked higher than the second summary e.g. based upon the aggregated feedback from a plurality of users that first summary may be displayed above the second summary in a list of summaries if both the first and second summaries are retrieved from the summary data store or if links to both summaries are displayed to the second user. Moreover if the second summary is ranked higher than the first summary the second summary may appear above the first summary in a list of summaries displayed to the user.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that as more users read the summaries the ranking or popularity of the respective summaries may change. Thus the ranking of the first summary relative to the second summary may change and the order of summaries which are displayed to future users may change. For example as a result of changes in the popularity of respective summaries the first summary originally ranked higher than the second summary may decrease in popularity such that it is ranked lower than the second summary. Thus when displayed to future users the second summary which was originally ordered below the first summary may be ordered above the first summary in a list of summaries for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

