---

title: Pushing suggested search queries to mobile devices
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving an indication of a location of a mobile-client system of a user, determining an intent of the user based on the location of the user, generating one or more suggested queries based on the determined intent of the user; and transmitting a notification to the mobile-client system of the user that includes one or more of the suggested queries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09223826&OS=09223826&RS=09223826
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09223826
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130225
---
This disclosure generally relates to mobile devices social graphs and performing searches for objects within a social networking environment.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a Global Positioning System GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may push one or more suggested search queries to a mobile device of a user of an online social network. The social networking system may determine an intent of the user based on the user s location or the location of the user s mobile device and possibly based on other available data such as the time of day the proximity of the user to other users or objects social graph information social graph affinity the search history of the user feedback from the user or other relevant information about the user. Based on the determined intent of the user the social networking system may then generate one or more suggested queries for the user. The social networking system may then transmit a notification to the mobile device of the user that includes one or more of the generated suggested queries.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect mobile client system social networking system and search engine system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments mobile client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by mobile client system . Mobile client system may be any suitable mobile computing device such as for example a laptop computer a cellular telephone a smartphone or a tablet computer. This disclosure contemplates any suitable mobile client systems . A mobile client system may enable a network user at mobile client system to access network . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more mobile client systems to access send data to and receive data from social networking system or search engine system . Mobile client system may access social networking system or search engine system directly via network or via a third party system. As an example and not by way of limitation mobile client system may access search engine system via social networking system . A mobile client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems.

In particular embodiments mobile client system may include a web browser such as for example MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or INTERNET EXPLORER MOBILE GOOGLE CHROME GOOGLE ANDROID APPLE SAFARI OPERA or OPERA MINI or OPERA MOBILE BITSTREAM BOLT or MOZILLA FIREFOX or FIREFOX MOBILE and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. To request access to a webpage a user at mobile client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as for example a server associated with a social networking system a 3rd party application server a web server an enterprise server a device detection system or another suitable system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The request for the webpage may include an http header comprising one or more header fields that define the operating parameters of the HTTP transaction. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to mobile client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Mobile client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a mobile client system a social networking system or a search engine system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of search engine system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from search engine systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments search engine system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online search engine. Search engine system may generate store receive and send search related data such as for example search queries search results and other suitable search related data. As an example and not by way of limitation search engine system may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine system one or more scoring algorithms or ranking algorithms to score and or rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a scoring algorithm implemented by search engine system may use a machine learned scoring formula which the scoring algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate. Search engine system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network .

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a mobile client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more mobile client systems or one or more search engine system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more mobile client systems . An API request server may allow a search engine system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a mobile client system . Information may be pushed to a mobile client system as notifications or information may be pulled from mobile client system responsive to a request received from mobile client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. search engine system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a search engine system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from mobile client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a search engine system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a mobile client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s mobile client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s mobile client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format presented on one or more webpages in one or more e mails or in connection with search results requested by a user . In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories e.g. a news feed or ticker item on social networking system . A sponsored story may be a social action by a user such as liking a page liking or commenting on a post on a page RSVPing to an event associated with a page voting on a question posted on a page checking in to a place using an application or playing a game or liking or sharing a website that an advertiser promotes by for example having the social action presented within a pre determined area of a profile page of a user or other page presented with additional information associated with the advertiser bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay to have the social action promoted. As an example and not by way of limitation advertisements may be included among the search results of a search results page where sponsored content is promoted over non sponsored content. As another example and not by way of limitation advertisements may be included among suggested search query where suggested queries that reference the advertiser or its content products may be promoted over non sponsored queries.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be requested for display within social networking system webpages third party webpages or other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page such as in a banner area at the top of the page in a column at the side of the page in a GUI of the page in a pop up window in a drop down menu in an input field of the page over the top of content of the page or elsewhere with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be displayed within an application. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page or utilize an application. The user may for example view the advertisement through a web browser.

A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the advertisement the user may be directed to or a browser or other application being used by the user a page associated with the advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement the user may take additional actions such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement receiving information associated with the advertisement or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the advertisement like a play button . Alternatively by selecting the advertisement the social networking system may execute or modify a particular action of the user.

An advertisement may include social networking system functionality that a user may interact with. As an example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may enable a user to like or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with endorsement. As another example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may enable a user to search e.g. by executing a query for content related to the advertiser. Similarly a user may share the advertisement with another user e.g. through social networking system or RSVP e.g. through social networking system to an event associated with the advertisement. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may include social networking system context directed to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation an advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social networking system who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a geographic location hereinafter also simply location of an object e.g. a user a concept or a mobile client system associated with a user or concept . The location of an object may be identified and stored as a street address e.g. 1601 Willow Road a set of geographic coordinates latitude and longitude a reference to another location or object e.g. the coffee shop next to the train station a reference to a map tile e.g. map tile 32 or using another suitable identifier. In particular embodiments the location of an object may be provided by a user of an online social network. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may input his location by checking in at the location or otherwise providing an indication of his location. As another example and not by way of limitation a user may input the location of a concept e.g. a place or venue by accessing the profile page for the concept and entering the location information e.g. the stress address of the concept. In particular embodiment the location of a mobile client system equipped with cellular Wi Fi GPS or other suitable capabilities may be identified with geographic positioning signals. As an example and not by way of limitation a mobile client system may include one or more sensors that may facilitate geo location functionalities of the system. Processing of sensor inputs by the mobile client system with one or more sensor devices for example processing a GPS sensor signal and displaying in the device s graphical user interface a map of a location corresponding to the GPS sensor signal may be implemented by a combination of hardware software and or firmware or device drivers . Geographic positioning signals may be obtained by cell tower triangulation Wi Fi positioning or GPS positioning. In particular embodiments a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be identified by the computer s IP address. A mobile client system may also have additional functionalities incorporating geographic location data of the device such as for example providing driving directions displaying a map of a current location or providing information of nearby points of interest such as restaurants gas stations etc. As an example and not by way of limitation a web browser application on the mobile client system may access a mapping library e.g. via a function call that generates a map containing a GPS location obtained by a device driver interpreting a GPS signal from a GPS sensor and display the map in the web browser application s graphical user interface. In particular embodiments the location of a user may be determined from a search history associated with the user. As an example and not by way of limitation if a particular user has previously queried for objects in a particular location the social networking system or the search engine system may assume that the user is still at that particular location. Although this disclosure describes determining the location of an object in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining the location of an object in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may maintain a database of information relating to locations. The social networking system may also maintain meta information about particular locations such as for example photos of the location advertisements user reviews comments check in activity data like activity data hours of operation or other suitable information related to the location. In particular embodiments a location may correspond to a concept node in a social graph such as for example as described previously or as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 171 which is incorporated by reference herein . The social networking system may allow users to access information regarding a location using a client application e.g. a web browser or other suitable application hosted by a mobile client system . As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may serve webpages or other structured documents to users that request information about a location. In addition to user profile and location information the system may track or maintain other information about the user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may support geo social networking functionality including one or more location based services that record the user s location. As an example and not by way of limitation users may access the geo social networking system using a special purpose client application hosted by a mobile client system of the user or a web or network based application using a browser client . The client application may automatically access GPS or other geo location functions supported by the mobile client system and report the user s current location to the geo social networking system. In addition the client application may support geo social networking functionality that allows users to check in at various locations and communicate this location to other users. A check in to a given location may occur when a user is physically located at a location and using a mobile client system access the geo social networking system to register the user s presence at the location. The social networking system may automatically check in a user to a location based on the user s current location and past location data such as for example as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 042 357 which is incorporated by reference herein . In particular embodiments the social networking system may allow users to indicate other types of relationships with respect to particular locations such as like fan worked at recommended attended or another suitable type of relationship. In particular embodiments check in information and other relationship information may be represented in the social graph as an edge connecting the user node of the user to the concept node of the location.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive an indication of a location of a mobile client system . The mobile client system may be associated with a particular user of the online social network. The social networking system may determine the location of the user or the user s mobile client device in any suitable manner as described previously. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may identify the location of a user based on a global position system GPS signal a Wi Fi signal a cellular radio signal check in information user profile information other suitable location information or any combination thereof. Although this disclosure describes determining locations of users in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining locations of users in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine an intent of the user based at least on the location of the mobile client system of the user. Particular intents may be associated with particular locations e.g. work vs. home restaurant shops theater etc. . Furthermore objects that are geographically closers to each other may be considered to be more related or of more interest to each other than more distant objects. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is nearby a theater the social networking system may determine that the user s intent is to search for information related to the theater and may generate an appropriate suggested query such as Do you want to see movie show times for the theater . As another example and not by way of limitation if the user s is at a restaurant the social networking system may determine that the user s intent is to search for information related to the restaurant and may generate an appropriate suggested query such as Would you like to search for reviews of the restaurant . In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a location pattern characteristic from user engagement with notifications. The location pattern characteristic may indicate geographic locations where the user would like to search for particular objects or has previously searches for such objects . The social networking system may identify the locations where the user more frequently runs search queries or more frequently interacts with suggested queries provided to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may identify that the user frequently searches for restaurants liked by the user s friends when the user is in or about the city of San Jose Calif. Thus the social networking system may determine that the user s intent when the user s current location is in or near San Jose is to search for restaurants or possibly other objects liked by the user s friends. As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may identify that the user rarely runs searches when the user is in or about the city of Palo Alto Calif. In this case the social networking system may determine that the user s intent when the user s current location is in or near Palo Alto is to not search for anything and thus suggested queries may not be pushed to the user when the user is in this location . Accordingly the social networking system may only send relevant suggested queries when the user is located in particular locations to reflect the identified pattern. The social networking system may also adjust the rate at which suggested queries are provided when the user is located in any particular location based on the frequency with which the user interacts with suggested queries while at those locations e.g. providing more suggested queries when the user is at a location where the user typically interacts with these queries and providing fewer suggested queries when the user is at a location where the user tends to dismiss these queries . In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user further based on the proximity of the first user to one or more objects. The objects may correspond to social graph elements such as user nodes or concept nodes in social graph . Each object may be associated with a particular location which may also be determined by the social networking system . The social networking system may then determine the distance between the location of the user and the location of any particular object. A first user may be more interested in other users or concepts that are closer to the first user. The intent of the user may then be determined based on the proximity of these objects. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user is one mile from an airport and two miles from a gas station the social networking system may determine that the user s intent is more closely related to the airport than the gas station based on the proximity of the airport. Although this disclosure describes determining user intents based on location in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining user intents based on location in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user based on a social graph affinity associated with the user. The social networking system may access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the social graph affinity hereinafter affinity of various social graph entities for each other. Affinity may represent the strength of a relationship or level of interest between particular objects associated with the online social network such as users concepts content actions advertisements other objects associated with the online social network or any combination thereof. Affinity may also be determined with respect to objects associated with third party systems or other suitable systems. An overall affinity for a social graph entity for each user subject matter type of content and so forth may be established. In particular embodiments the social networking system may measure or quantify social graph affinity using an affinity coefficient hereinafter coefficient . The coefficient may represent or quantify the strength of a relationship between particular objects associated with the online social network. The coefficient may also represent a probability or function that measures a predicted probability that a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. Coefficients may be used to determine a user s intent by determining a user s interest in particular actions or predict whether a user will perform a particular action based on the user s interest in the action. As an example and not by way of limitation if the user has a relatively high coefficient with respect to a particular object e.g. the location Old Pro the social networking system may determine that the user is interested in searching for information relating to that object and may generate a suggested query related to that object e.g. a suggested query such as Would you like directions to the Old Pro or Would you like to know how many of your friends recently checked in at the Old Pro . In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the first user based on a degree of separation in the social graph between the user node corresponding to the first user and one or more second nodes. Social graph entities that are closer in the social graph i.e. fewer degrees of separation may have a higher coefficient than entities that are further apart in the social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation referencing user C is one degree of separation from the concept node for the school Stanford and two degrees of separation from the concept node for the location Old Pro. In this case the social networking system may determine that the intent of user C is more like related to the closer social graph entity i.e. the school Stanford and thus may generate suggested queries related to this intent e.g. a suggest query such as Would you like to search for nearby Stanford students . Although this disclosure describes determining user intents based on affinity in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining user intents based on affinity in any suitable manner. In connection with social graph affinity and affinity coefficients particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 632 869 field 1 Oct. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user based on a search history associated with the user. Suggested queries that are the same as or similar to queries that the user has previously queried may be more likely to match the intent of the querying user. In other words the user may be more interested in searching for things the user has previously searched for or are related to things the user has previously searched for . As an example and not by way of limitation if the user has previously searched for restaurants nearby the social networking system may determine that the user s intent at a particular subsequent time is to search for the same thing e.g. a suggested query matching this intent may be Do you want to find nearby restaurants . Similarly suggested queries that would generate search results corresponding to social graph elements the querying user has previously accessed or are relevant to the social graph elements the querying user has previously accessed may be more likely to match the intent of the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation if the querying user has previously visited the Stanford University profile page corresponding to the concept node for Stanford University when determining the intent of the user when he is travelling near the school Stanford University the social networking system may determine that the user s intent is to located the school and may generate a suggested query such as Do you want directions to Stanford University This suggested query may generate a search result corresponding to Stanford University. Although this disclosure describes determining user intents based on search history in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining user intents based on search history in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user based on the current time associated with the user. A particular user may have a pattern of activity during a typical day such as for example driving to certain locations meeting with particular people or searching for particular objects at certain times of the day. The social networking system may identify a time pattern characteristic from these user activities and identify an intent associated with these activities. The time pattern characteristic may be indicative of time periods in which the user would like to search for particular objects or has previously searches for such objects . The time pattern characteristic may also be indicative of time periods in which the user dismisses particular suggested queries and thus has an intent that does not correspond to searching for anything at that time. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may identify a time pattern indicating that the user often searches for weather information provided between the hours of 7 AM and 8 AM daily and often searches for food or restaurant information between the hours of 12 PM and 1 PM daily. Thus the social networking system may determine that the user s intent from 7 AM to 8 AM is to search for weather related information and the user s intent from 12 PM to 1 PM is to search for food or restaurant information. The social networking system may also identify that the user does not perform searches or dismisses suggested queries provided outside of these time periods and thus does not have an intent corresponding to any types of search queries during these other time periods. Accordingly the social networking system may only send relevant suggested queries during these time periods to reflect the identified pattern. The social networking system may also adjust the rate at which suggested queries are provided during the identified time periods based on the frequency with which the user interacts with suggested queries during those periods e.g. providing more suggested queries when the user interacts with these queries and providing fewer suggested queries when the user tends to dismiss these queries . In particular embodiments the social networking system may divide a day into a series of time periods and determine the intent of the user based on the current time period. The time periods may comprise various time ranges e.g. hour ranges that represent different times of the day in which to provide suggested queries. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may divide a day into a plurality of time periods comprising a first time period representing working hours a second time period representing lunch hours a third time period representing home hours a fourth time period representing dinner hours and a fifth time period representing resting hours. The social networking system may then determine that the intent of the user during the second and fourth time period is to search for food or restaurants while the intent of the user during the third time period may be to search for entertainment or friends. During the fifth time period the social networking system may determine the user has no intent to search for anything since the user is resting. The time periods determined by the social networking system may be similarly applied to all the days of the week. Alternatively different time periods may be determined by the social networking system for given days of the week. As an example and not by way of limitation the time periods assigned for weekdays may differ from the time periods assigned for weekends. Weekdays for example may have a time period representing working hours while weekends may not have such a time period. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the user s intent based on the user s schedule. The social networking system access the user s calendar or otherwise determine the user s activities e.g. in a meeting making a phone call eating lunch or dinner watching a movie etc. . The social networking system may then determine that particular intents are associated with particular activities. As an example and not by way of limitation if the user is watching a movie the social networking system may determine the user s intent is to search for information related to the movie and may provide a suggested query such as Do you want to search for the cast of this movie Although this disclosure describes determining user intents based on time in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining user intents based on time in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user based on feedback from the user. User feedback from the user may comprise data indicating an interest of the user in particular queries or query types. As an example and not by way of limitation user feedback may include data indicating suggested queries that the user has run and data indicating suggested queries that the user has ignored or dismissed. The social networking system may then determine that the user s intent is more likely to be to run queries that are the same as or similar to the suggested queries that the user has previously run. Similarly the social networking system may determine that the user s intent is not likely to be match the suggested queries that the user has previously ignored or dismissed. As another example and not by way of limitation user feedback may include user settings data where the user has inputted particular queries or query types the user is interested in seeing. The social networking system may then determine that the user s intent matches the queries and query types indicated by the user in the user settings data and provide suggested queries that are the same as or similar to the queries and query types indicated by the user. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the intent of the user based on how the user has engaged with prior notifications sent to the user. The social networking system may identify patterns of user engagement with particular queries or query types. Based on the identified patterns the social networking system may determine if and when the user is interested in searching for something and the objects or types of objects the user may intend to search for. As an example and not by way of limitation if the user has previously dismissed a suggested query such as Would you like to search for your nearby friends then the social networking system may determine that the user is not interested in seeing this particular suggested query or related types of queries. As another example and not by way of limitation if the user has previously run a suggested query such as Would you like to search for books liked by your friends then the social networking system may determine that the user is interested in seeing this particular suggested query or related types of queries and may in the future push such suggested queries to the user . Although this disclosure describes determining user intents based on user feedback in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining user intents based on user feedback in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more suggested queries based on the intent of the user. The determined intents may correspond to particular queries or query types. Depending on the determined intent of the user a suitable suggested query may be generated. As an example and not by way of limitation if the user s intent indicates the user is interested in cocktails the social networking system may generate a suggested query such as Do you want to search for bars nearby that are liked by your friends . In particular embodiments the suggested queries may be based on natural language strings generated by a context free grammar model. Each grammar of the grammar model may comprise one or more non terminal tokens or non terminal symbols and one or more terminal tokens or terminal symbols query tokens where particular non terminal tokens may be replaced by terminal tokens. A grammar model is a set of formation rules for strings in a formal language. In this way the suggested queries may be rendered in a natural language syntax with references to the relevant social graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation if the social networking system has determined based on the user s intent that the user might like to search for nearby restaurants liked by the user s friends the social networking system may generate the query command intersect nearby restaurant liked by friends me which could then be rendered by the social networking system as a natural language query such as nearby restaurants liked by my friends . Although this disclosure describes generating particular suggested queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable suggested queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the suggested queries generated by the social networking system may be structured queries comprising references to one or more social graph elements. A structured query may include references to one or more of the identified nodes or one or more of the identified edges . As used herein a structured query refers to a query that contains references to particular social graph elements allowing the search engine to search based on the identified elements. This type of structured query may allow the social networking system to more efficiently search for resources and content related to the online social network such as for example profile pages by searching for content connected to or otherwise related to the identified user nodes and the identified edges . As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may generate a structured query Do you want to search for friends of Stephanie where friends and Stephanie in the structured query are references corresponding to particular social graph elements. The reference to Stephanie would correspond to a particular user node while the reference to friends would correspond to friend type edges connecting that user node to other user nodes i.e. edges connecting to Stephanie s first degree friends . Although this disclosure describes generating structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating structured queries in any suitable manner. More information on generating structured queries and grammar models may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 674 695 filed 12 Nov. 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 866 filed 31 Dec. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may calculate a score for each of the generated suggested queries. The suggested queries may scored for example based on the probability or likelihood that the particular suggested query matches the intent of the querying user or based on the relevance of the particular suggested query to the intent of the querying user. If the suggested query is considered to match well or to be highly relevant to the user s determined intent then the social networking system may calculate a relatively high score for the query. Similarly if the suggested query does not closely match or is not particularly relevant to the user s determined intent then the social networking system may calculate a relatively low score for the query. In particular embodiments the score for a particular suggested query with respect to a user may be determined based on various factors such as for example a location factor which compares the location of the objects targeted by the query and the current location of the user an interest factor which indicates whether the objects targets by the query are relevant to the user s intent a time factor which determines whether the current time is within the an appropriate time period during which the user is interested in receiving suggested queries a connection factor which indicates the number of the user s social connections that are associated with objects targeted by the suggested query other suitable factors or any combination thereof. These different factors may be combined to determine an overall score. In particular embodiments the social networking system may calculate a score for each of the generated suggested queries based on a number of possible search results corresponding to the suggested query. Suggested queries that generate more search results may be more may be more relevant to the user. However search queries that generate too many or too few results may not be helpful. Thus the social networking system may score suggested queries more highly if they generate more search results but the score may be lowered of the search query generates too many results. In particular embodiments the social networking system may score the structured queries based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser such as for example the user or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node may sponsor a particular node such that a suggested query that would identify that node as a search result may be scored more highly. In particular embodiments the social networking system may rank the generated suggested queries based on the calculated scores. Although this disclosure describes scoring suggested queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates scoring suggested queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit a notification to the mobile client system of the user that comprises one or more of the suggested queries. The notification may be for example a SMS message a MMS message an email message a banner notification a pop up notification an in app notification e.g. a jewel notification a cloud to device notification e.g. C2DM notification another suitable type of notification or any combination thereof. The notification may be presented to the user such that the user can view and interact with the transmitted suggested queries. As an example and not by way of limitation if the social networking system determines that the user s intent is to search for a particular object the social networking system may send a SMS message containing the suggested query and a hyperlink that the user can select to run the search. In particular embodiments the notification may be a push notification. Push technology may be used in a variety of circumstances. For example in a client server environment a server may push communications to a client. A notification may be transmitted pushed from the server to the client through a push channel. The client may be any type of electronic device capable of network communications. In particular embodiments the client may be a mobile device e.g. a mobile telephone a smart phone a tablet computer etc. capable of wireless communications and the server may push communications sent over a mobile network or a wireless network to the mobile device. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may initiate a communication transaction with a user s mobile client system and transmits the notification to the mobile client system without obtaining a permission from the receiving system first. In other words the notification may be pushed to the receiving device whether or not the receiving device or the user of the device actually wants to receive the communication. In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit only suggested queries having a score greater then a threshold score. As an example and not by way of limitation only the top scored query may be pushed to the user and displayed in a notification on the user s mobile client system . In this way only the suggested query that most closely matches the user s intent may be sent to the user. Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular notifications in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable notifications in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive from the user a selection of one of the suggested queries. One or more suggested queries may be transmitted and presented to the user as a notification as described previously. The user may then select a suggested query indicating that it should be run by the social networking system or the search engine system as appropriate . Alternatively the user may dismiss or ignore the suggested query. As an example and not by way of limitation if the suggested query is presented to the user as a pop up notification the notification may allow the user to select e.g. click on an option indicating the suggested query should be executed. The notification may also allow the user to select an option to dismiss the pop up notification thereby dismissing the suggested query. Alternatively the user may just ignore the pop up notification which may eventually go away. In particular embodiments the received query may be passed on to a search engine system which may execute the search query and identify appropriate search results. Although this disclosure describes receiving query selections a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving query selections in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the search engine system or the social networking system or both as appropriate may generate one or more search results corresponding to the suggested query selected by the user. The search engine system may conduct a search based on the suggested query using various search algorithms and generate search results that identify resources e.g. webpages content or other information that are most likely to be related to the search query. In response the search engine system may identify one or more resources that are likely to be related to the search query which may collectively be referred to as a search result identified for the search query. The search results may be presented to the user often in the form of a list of links on search results webpage each link being associated with a different webpage that contains some of the identified resources or content. In particular embodiments each link in the search results may be in the form of a Uniform Resource Locator URL that specifies where the corresponding webpage is located and the mechanism for retrieving it. The user may then be able to click on the URL links to view the specific resources contained in the corresponding webpages as he wishes. The resources may be ranked and presented to the user according to their relative degrees of relevance to the search query. The search results may also be ranked and presented to the user according to their relative degree of relevance to the user. In other words the search results may be personalized for the querying user based on for example social graph information user information search or browsing history of the user or other suitable information related to the user. In particular embodiments ranking of the resources may be determined by a ranking algorithm implemented by the search engine. As an example and not by way of limitation resources that are relatively more relevant to the search query or to the user may be ranked higher than the resources that are relatively less relevant to the search query or the user. In particular embodiments the search engine may limit its search to resources and content on the online social network. However in particular embodiments the search engine may also search for resources on other sources such as third party systems the internet or World Wide Web or other suitable sources. When generating the search results the search engine system may generate one or more snippets for each search result where the snippets are contextual information about the target of the search result i.e. contextual information about the social graph entity profile page or other content corresponding to the particular search result . Although this disclosure describes generating search results in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating search results in any suitable manner. More information on generating search results may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 939 filed 31 Dec. 2012 which is incorporated by reference.

Push notifications intent and location based applications are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 184 filed 28 Apr. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 197 filed 28 Apr. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 096 208 filed 28 Apr. 2011 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 490 394 filed 6 Jun. 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 656 531 filed 19 Oct. 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 681 843 filed 20 Nov. 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 681 947 filed 20 Nov. 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 718 273 filed 18 Dec. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

