---

title: Method and apparatus for incorporating objects into cigarette filters
abstract: Cigarette filter rods having individual objects positioned at predetermined intervals therein are prepared by transferring the individual objects from a rotating horizontal pan to a rotating vertical wheel and then depositing the object into a web of filter tow. Each object is positioned within the moving web of tow. The web filter material and the objects positioned within the web are introduced into a rod-forming unit wherein the rod is formed. The rate of feed of the filter tow, the rate of rotation of the horizontal pan and the vertical wheel are controlled relative to one another such that objects are positioned at predetermined intervals along the rod. Cigarette filter elements having well controlled amounts of flavorant contained therein can be made from the rods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282768&OS=09282768&RS=09282768
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 09282768
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130620
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 400 478 filed Feb. 20 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 907 450 filed Oct. 19 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 646 310 filed Dec. 23 2009 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 499 154 filed Aug. 4 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 654 945 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 661 807 filed Sep. 12 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 the disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to smoking articles and in particular to smoking articles having the form of filtered cigarettes.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. US Pat. Appl. No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. US Pat. Appl. No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose the placement of a flavor containing pellet in a cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al.

Cigarettes having adjustable filter elements that allow smokers to select the level of flavor that is available for transfer into mainstream smoke have been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 848 375 to Patron et al. Some proposed cigarettes may be manipulated reportedly for the purpose of providing components of their filter elements with the propensity to modify the nature or character of mainstream smoke. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 297 038 to Homburger U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 557 to Karalus U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 242 to Boukar U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 558 to Seyburn U.S. Pat. No. 3 513 859 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 665 to Kindgard U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 128 to Cohen and U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 141 to Grossman. Some proposed cigarettes have capsules positioned in their filter elements and the contents of those capsules reportedly are released into the filter elements upon rupture of those capsules in the attempt to alter the nature or character of the mainstream smoke passing through those filter elements. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 558 to Waterbury U.S. Pat. No. 3 366 121 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 390 686 to Irby Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 428 049 to Leake U.S. Pat. No. 3 547 130 to Harlow et al U.S. Pat. No. 3 575 1809 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 602 231 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 625 228 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 635 226 to Horsewell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 991 773 to Walker and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim proposes a filtered cigarette having at least one capsule containing aromatic material disposed in the filter section of that cigarette and the application of pressure to the capsule reportedly causes the capsule to burst and discharge aromatic material into the filter so as to change the taste of the tobacco experienced during the course of smoking. Some proposed cigarettes have capsules positioned in their filter elements and the contents of those capsules reportedly are released into the filter elements upon rupture of those capsules in order to deodorize the filter element after the cigarette is extinguished. See for example US Pat. Appl. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al.

Commercially marketed Rivage brand cigarettes have included a filter possessing a cylindrical plastic container containing water or a liquid flavor solution. Cigarettes representative of the Rivage brand cigarettes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 865 056 to Tamaoki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 981 to Tamaoki et al. both of which are assigned to Japan Tobacco Inc. The cylindrical casing within the filter reportedly may be deformed upon the application of external force and a thin wall portion of the casing is consequently broken so as to permit release of the liquid within the casing into an adjacent portion of that filter.

A cigarette holder has been available under the brand name Aquafilter. Cigarette holders representative of the Aquafilter brand product are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 797 644 to Shaw U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 387 to Goldstein and U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 153 to Kaye assigned to Aquafilter Corporation. Those patents propose a disposable cigarette holder into which the mouth end of a cigarette is inserted. Smoke from the cigarette that is drawn through the holder reportedly passes through filter material impregnated with water. A disposable filter adapted to be attachable to the mouth end of a cigarette has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. Flavor containing capsules contained within the disposable filter reportedly may be squeezed in order to release the flavor within those capsules.

Cigarettes incorporating distinctive flavors that provide a pleasurable sensory experience are clearly of interest to smokers. Some smokers may prefer a cigarette that is capable of selectively providing a variety of different flavors depending upon the smoker s immediate desire. The flavor of such a cigarette might be selected based on the smoker s desire for a particular flavor at that time or a desire to change flavors during the smoking experience. For example changing flavors during the smoking experience may enable a smoker to end the cigarette with a breath freshening flavor such as menthol or spearmint. Accordingly it is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of providing different sensory experiences at the discretion of a smoker.

Some smokers may also desire a cigarette that is capable of selectively releasing a deodorizing agent upon completion of a smoking experience. Such agents may be used to ensure that the remaining portion of a smoked cigarette yields a pleasant aroma after the smoker has finished smoking that cigarette. Accordingly it is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent particularly at the discretion of the smoker.

Some smokers may desire a cigarette that is capable of selectively moistening cooling or otherwise modifying the nature or character of the mainstream smoke generated by that cigarette. Because certain agents that can be used to interact with smoke are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate over time the effects of those agents upon the behavior of those cigarettes may require introduction of those agents near commencement of the smoking experience. Accordingly is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of selectively moistening smoothing or cooling the smoke delivered to a smoker at the discretion of that smoker.

It would be highly desirable to provide smokers with the ability to enhance their smoking experience. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that can selectively provide a manner or method for altering in a controlled way the nature or character of the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette. In particular it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing an agent for enhancing the sensory attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring that smoke . It would be desirable to be able to produce such cigarettes at high rates of manufacture compatible with existing automated cigarette making equipment.

The invention provides an apparatus and process for providing rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles each rod having objects individually spaced at predetermined intervals along the length thereof.

One embodiment of the apparatus includes a first rotatable member having a horizontal pan for supporting a plurality of individual objects and a plurality of stems located at predetermined intervals around the periphery of the pan. The stems have an object seat at an upper end of the stem and have vertical actuation to rise and lower the seat from a position below the pan to a position above the pan as the horizontal pan rotates about a central axis. The apparatus also includes means for positioning the individual objects within the supply of filler material at predetermined intervals. Preferably one embodiment of the means includes a rotatable member having a plurality of pockets positioned at predetermined intervals along a peripheral face of the rotatable member.

One embodiment of the process includes continuously supplying individual objects by supporting a plurality of objects on a horizontal pan rotating the pan to cause a plurality of stems received within holes in the pan to rise above the pan to lift an object seated on the stem positioning the object within the supplied filler material and forming a continuous rod having the individual objects positioned at predetermined intervals within the rod. Preferably one embodiment of the positioning comprises transferring the object from the stem to a first position on a vertical rotating member and rotating the object from the first position to a second position within the web of filter material.

These and other preferred embodiments of the invention are described in more detail below with reference to the appended drawings.

The following description of a preferred embodiment of an apparatus and method for incorporating objects into a cigarette filter is described in the context of the insertion of a spherical capsule. Although a spherical capsule is a preferred object to be inserted one of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that other objects having the same or different shape may be inserted into cigarette filters in accordance with the teachings herein. Therefore reference to capsule is to be understood to be illustrative and not limiting the invention. Like numerals in different figures refer to like parts.

Referring to an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit and a capsule insertion unit for placing objects at predetermined intervals within a continuous length of filter material . The continuous length of filter material is supplied from a source not shown such as a storage bale bobbin or the like. Generally the filter material is processed using a filter material processing unit . The continuous length of filter material which has objects incorporated therein at predetermined spaced intervals is passed through the rod forming unit thereby forming a continuous rod which can be subdivided by severing means into a plurality of rods which are collected using tray or other suitable collection means. The severing means may be synchronized with a capsule inspection means such as a video inspection unit to cut the continuous rod at precise locations so that the objects or capsules are correctly positioned with the individual rods .

The production of filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements and the manufacture of cigarettes from those filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements in accordance with this invention can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide cigarette filters multi segment cigarette filters and filtered cigarettes. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Other types of commercially available filter rod making equipment may similarly be used such as the model KDF 2 available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG or the model Decoufle available from Decoufle of France.

Six up rods four up filter rods and two up rods that are conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al.

Referring again to filter material is supplied and is passed into the rod forming unit . The filter material can vary and is any material that can be employed in providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. For example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al.

At least a portion of the filter material is generally absorbent of liquids and hence capable of wicking the liquid payload components released from the capsule into the tow material for delivery to the smoker or otherwise allowing for movement or transfer of the released capsule components throughout filter element . For example filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit such as a commercially available E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may similarly be used. A portion of such an apparatus is designated by reference numeral in . Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow using known techniques. Other suitable materials for construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

Other types of cigarettes possessing multi component filters also can incorporate those types of capsule containing filter segments representative those made by the present invention. For example capsule containing filter segments of the present invention can be incorporated into the multi component filter of cigarettes of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al US Pat. Application No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. and PCT WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. Additional information regarding methods and apparatus for manufacturing other types of filter elements which may be modified to contain capsules are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 063 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 064 791 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 075 936 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 357 950 to Berger and U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger. The patents and patent applications listed above are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Referring again to the continuous length of filter material is pulled through the block by the action of the rod forming unit and the individual capsules are inserted at predetermined intervals within the web of filter material. The filter material is further directed into a gathering means of the rod forming unit . The gathering means can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration stuffer or transport jet configuration or the like. The tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of the cylindrical composite from block into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending stands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed.

The filter material which has been compressed into a cylindrical composite is received into the rod forming unit . The cylindrical composite is fed into wrapping mechanism which includes endless garniture conveyer belt or other garniture means. The garniture conveyer belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using advancing mechanism such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through wrapping mechanism . The wrapping mechanism provides a strip of wrapping material to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce continuous wrapped rod .

The strip of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin . The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers passes under block and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyer belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite. The wrapping material that circumscribes the filter material can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the wrapping material is a porous or non porous paper that is commercially available and is known in the industry as plug wrap. Exemplary highly porous plug wrap papers are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap Plug Wrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 65 M9 95 M9 150 M4 260 M4 and 260 M4T.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture of the wrapping mechanism or block as the case may be. The adhesive can be cooled using chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive. It is understood that various other sealing means and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing means and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using cutting assembly which includes as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or the like. It is particularly desirable that the cutting means not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the shape of the rod. The rate at which the cutting assembly severs the continuous rod at the desired points is controlled relative to the rate at which the capsules are inserted into the continuous web of filter material. In one embodiment the cutting assembly is geared in a direct drive relationship to the drive assembly of the rod making apparatus. In another embodiment the cutting assembly has a direct drive motor synchronized with the drive assembly of the rod forming unit and feedback controlled by coupling with the capsule inspection means to adjust the cutting assembly drive should the capsules insertion location shift out of position. A suitable manner for providing the required timing for severing the continuous rod at the desired length and with the desired number of capsules positioned at the predetermined intervals therein will be apparent to the skilled artisan.

The succession or plurality of rods are collected for use in collection means which is a tray a rotary collection drum or the like. If desired the rods can be transported directly to a cigarette making machine. In such a manner in excess of 1 400 rods each of about 100 mm length can be manufactured per minute.

The capsule insertion unit includes a rotatable member having the shape of a wheel which may be optionally held in place within a ledger housing . The capsule insertion unit also includes a hopper and or other transfer means for feeding or otherwise providing a passageway for the capsules to the rotatable member which is also referred to in one embodiment as insertion wheel. In one embodiment the rotatable member is driven by a pulley and belt coupled with the main drive assembly of the rod making apparatus . In another embodiment the rotatable member has an independent drive motor synchronized with or controlled by the main drive assembly.

Referring to one embodiment of the capsule insertion unit is disclosed in greater detail. The transfer means comprises a rotating carousel . The carousel has a horizontal pan on the top with a series swales or troughs for directing the capsules to the perimeter of the pan where a plurality of holes are evenly spaced around the perimeter of the plate. Inside the holes are stem lifters that lift a capsule up to a transfer tube positioned directly over the hole . The transfer tubes are fastened to the carousel by a tube ring which surrounds the carousel. As shown the transfer tubes guide the capsules from the pan to a position radially outward of the carousel circumference and below the carousel to be transferred to the rotatable member . At the bottom of the transfer tube is a ball catcher which is a narrow restriction in the transfer tube to centrally position the capsule at the bottom of the transfer tube. A fixed shelf is provided under the ball catcher to retain the capsules in the transfer tubes until the capsules can be transferred to the rotatable member .

The rotatable member in this embodiment is an insertion wheel that has a plurality of spaced pockets around the perimeter of the insertion wheel. The insertion wheel is positioned so that its peripheral face axially aligns a pocket with the bottom of a transfer tube during rotation of both parts.

In operation the capsules are delivered from a feed hopper to the pan of a carousel . As the carousel rotates centrifugal force moves the capsules to the perimeter of the pan where the capsules gather over and around the holes . As the carousel rotates each lifter mounted flush with its hole rises and captures a capsule lifting the capsule to a predetermined apex beneath its respective transfer tube . The capture of the capsule may be assisted with vacuum supplied through the lifting stem. When the capsule reaches its apex and the transfer tube is aligned over the shelf a positive air pressure is applied to the stem lifter that then blows the capsule up into the transfer tube and down to the ball catcher . As the carousel further rotates the capsule moves along the shelf and at its terminus drops into a pocket of the insertion wheel . The insertion wheel and the carousel are driven in synchronization so that each transfer tube aligns with a pocket of the insertion wheel. The carousel and insertion wheel may be driven in synchronization geared to a single motor or may have independent drives that are servo controlled for synchronization. As will be explained below as the insertion wheel rotates the capsules held within the pocket are brought into contact with the filter material within the block where the capsule is then ejected from the pocket into the gathering filter material.

Because of the centrifugal force developed by the rotation of the carousel and with the assistance of the swales on the surface of the pan the capsules are evenly distributed to the perimeter of the top plate. It is preferred that the carousel rotate at a speed sufficient to match the maximum production speed of the rod forming unit. A typical rod forming unit described in can make up to 2000 four up cigarette filter rods per minute i.e. 8000 cigarette filters . For ease of synchronization with the internal drive of the rod forming unit and to have a manageable size of equipment it is desirable to have an insertion wheel with 16 pockets around its periphery and a carousel with 32 stem lifters. This provides easy 2 to 1 direct gear ratio so that a direct gearing of the two rotating devices may be easily achieved. It has been found that the rotating carousel as one embodiment of a transfer means is a way to transfer capsules with minimal strain or stress at high production rates. The carousel can singulate and separate single capsules from a pool and put them into a system properly spaced to deliver to a filter material. Larger diameter carousels and insertion wheels may be used to slow down the transfer and acceleration of the capsules to reduce the strain and stress. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that size limitations may be based on the available space surrounding typical rod making apparatus that are commercially available.

Referring to an enlarged perspective of the carousel is shown with a portion of the carousel cutaway. The carousel has a horizontal pan on the top. A series swales or troughs extend radially from the center of the pan. These troughs provide a shallow channel for the radial movement of the capsule to the perimeter of the pan . A hole is centered at the end of each trough . Within each hole is a capsule stem lifter . In one preferred embodiment the capsule stem lifter is a hollow tube with relief slots cut out at the top of the stem. The relief slots allow for air to flow around and pass the capsule into the stems as a vacuum is applied to the stems. As the carousel rotates the stems rise and fall. At the maximum height of the extension of the stem shown as at stem a positive air pressure is applied to the stem to blow out the capsule into transfer tube as described with .

Referring again to the cutaway revealing the interior of the carousel shows a vacuum inlet port leading into a vacuum channel at the bottom of the carousel. The vacuum channel preferably extends more than half way around the circumference of the carousel to provide the suction for the stem lifters in communication with the channel to grab onto a capsule so that it may be lifted up to the transfer tube. Near the apex or point of maximum stem lift the vacuum channel stops and the stem lifter moves to a position in communication with an air pressure supply port that is provided at the bottom of the carousel.

The stems rise and fall with cam actuation. A drive shaft contained within ball bearings and thrust bearings is connected to the top pan which is then connected to the carousel skirt . The top pan and carousel skirt rotate around a fixed cam drum which comprises the bottom of the carousel. The cam drum has a cam channel found in the side wall of the cam drum. The cam channel forms a continuous path around the perimeter of the cam drum and defines the rise and fall of the stem lifters . Attached to each stem lifter is a cam block and a cam follower . A cam block is fixed to the stem with two set screws and a cam follower is secured to the cam block with a bolt . As the pan rotates the cam follower rides within the cam channel as the carousel rotates to cause the stem to rise and lower along with the rise and fall of the cam channel in the side walls of the cam drum . Brass bushings are preferably located in the carousel holes to position the lifting stems about the periphery of the pan and skirt and guide their vertical movement.

Referring now to a detailed perspective of the embodiment of the stem lifter and cam of is depicted. The stem lifter has relief slots at the top end of the stem lifter which is chamfered or concaved to provide a seat surface for the capsules that are retained on the top of the stem lifters through the vacuum applied at the bottom of the stem. The cam block is positioned on the stem and fixed in place with two set screws . The cam follower wheel rises within the cam channel . Sides of the cam block cooperate with the guides in the skirt of the carousel to prevent rotation of the cam block assembly about the axis of the stem lifter .

Referring now to another embodiment of a stem and cam block is shown. In this embodiment the stem has similar relief slots and capsule seat as previously described. The cam block includes a set of wheels to ride up and down in the cam block guides . The cam block is fixed to the stem with a machine screw . A cam follower wheel is positioned adjacent the inner wheel .

Referring now to the rotatable member with the embodiment including the insertion wheel is depicted in an exploded perspective view. As described above the insertion wheel includes a series of pockets equally spaced around the peripheral face of the wheel. The pockets are holes drilled through the wheel extending all the way through and in communication with the center opening of the wheel. Within each pocket a capsule seat is positioned near the radial end of the pocket. The capsule seat is generally a hollow ribbed structure that provides a seat or cradle to retain the capsule as the wheel rotates. More details of different embodiments of the capsule seats are described below.

The insertion wheel is mounted onto a drive shaft and bolted to a mounting flange . A set of bolts through the outboard surface of the insertion wheel retain the wheel against the mounting flange. The drive shaft is inserted through a set of ball bearings and separated by a bushing and retained by traditional methods within the bearing housing . Spacer ring cooperates with drive components not shown. The bearing housing includes a vacuum port in communication with a vacuum channel that is cut into the outside peripheral surface of the hub . A positive air supply port is provided on the bearing housing and channeled through to the bearing housing hub at a single point corresponding to the location where a pocket is positioned to insert into the filter material. The insertion wheel fits down over the bearing housing hub so that the inside surface of the insertion wheel rotates around the hub with the insertion wheel pockets riding over the vacuum channel . The drive shaft is centered inside the bearing housing so that it retains the insertion wheel concentrically about the bearing housing hub to maintain a small air gap between the hub and the inside surface so there is no contact between the parts. In this manner a vacuum seal is provided between the bearing housing and the insertion wheel without the need for bearings bushings or other contacting seals between the two parts. Bolt holes are provided around the perimeter of the bearing housing to allow for adjustable mounting of the bearing housing to a support bracket not shown on the rod making apparatus .

Referring now to a detailed perspective view of the bearing housing is shown with a partial cutaway. In the cutaway portion the vacuum port is visibly shown in communication with a vacuum channel via a passage drilled out from the backside of the bearing housing. Also in this view the positive air supply port is shown visibly in communication with a drilled out air supply passage in communication with the air ejection port . In operation as the insertion wheel rotates around the bearing housing with the pockets rotating over the vacuum channel a vacuum is applied to the capsule seats to retain a capsule thereon. When the pockets rotate over the air ejection port the vacuum switches to a positive air supply which ejects the capsule into the filter material.

Referring now to one embodiment of a capsule seat is shown. The capsule seat is a hollow tube with internal protrusions which support the capsule inside the capsule seat. An air gap is provided between the capsule and the interior inside surface of the capsule seat. The air gap allows air to flow around all sides of the capsule seat as a vacuum is applied below the capsule seat in the pocket of the insertion wheel. It has been found that without this air gap the capsule can become aerodynamically captured in the capsule seat and was difficult to remove from the capsule seat to insert into the filter material. Thus it is preferable to use the capsule seats in the pockets around the insertion wheel. The preferred capsule seats include an air gap between the capsule and the inside walls of the capsule seats. This air gap allows air to flow around the capsule to minimize strain on a capsule. Preferably the capsule sits on top of the ribs or protrusions so that the top of the capsule is generally flushed with the outside diameter of the insertion wheel. Also it is preferred to have a sufficient size air gap so that the flutes between the ribs or protrusions of the capsule seats are directly exposed so that the capsules may be easily ejected from the pockets when the positive air supply replaces the vacuum. The capsule seats may be made out of rigid plastics or polymeric material such as polyethylene ethylene ketone PEEK or nylon. Alternatively the capsule seat may be metal ceramic or a composite structure. One of ordinary skill in the art may understand that there are numerous other materials that may be suitable for use with the capsule seats.

Referring to and three more alternative embodiments for capsule seats are shown. discloses a capsule seat with six radially aligned internal ribs which support a capsule . discloses a capsule seat having four internal protrusions or alternatively four flutes formed by drilling out a solid tube. discloses a capsule seat having four internal ribs . In each case the internal diameter of the capsule seats is larger than the outside diameter of the capsules to provide an air gap all around the perimeter of the capsule for the reasons noted above.

Referring again to the capsule insertion unit includes a rotatable wheel having a series of pockets positioned at predetermined intervals along the periphery thereof. The series of pockets which are positioned along the peripheral face of the wheel are at equally spaced intervals. The number of pockets present in the peripheral face of the wheel generally is dependent upon the manner in which the strand is introduced to the pocket the rate of rotation of the wheel relative to the rate of feed of filter material and the desired spacing of the individual capsules within the filter rod. For example a wheel of about 4.2 inch 107 mm diameter can have 16 pockets the centers of which are equally spaced at a 21 mm distance. As another example a wheel of about 6.22 inch 158 mm diameter can have 16 pockets the centers of which are equally spaced at 31 mm distance. The diameter of the wheel can vary. Typically the diameter of the wheel is dictated by factors such as the shape spacing and number of pockets in the peripheral face thereof and the rate at which the wheel is required to rotate. For most applications involving the manufacture of filter rods for smoking articles the diameter of the wheel preferably ranges from about 4 inches to about 8 inches. The wheel is manufactured from pre tempered cold rolled steel or the like.

The width of wheel is predetermined according to factors such as but not limited to the circumference of the continuous rod which is manufactured according to this invention and the diameter of the capsules. Generally the width of the wheel is the width of the peripheral face of the wheel. Of particular interest is a wheel having a width of about 0.25 inch. A wheel with such a width can conveniently be used for the manufacturing of rods having a circumference of about 25 mm. The width of each pocket is less than the width of the peripheral face of the wheel and typically is determined by the diameter of the capsule that enters the pocket i.e. the width of the pocket is greater than the diameters of the capsule and the capsule seat .

The ledger housing is positioned as a rim over the peripheral face of the wheel and is spaced from the wheel such that the wheel can rotate freely therein. Referring to the ledger housing houses the wheel after the point of introduction of a capsule into the successive pockets along the periphery of the wheel as discussed in detail above . The ledger housing extends over the peripheral face of the wheel to near that region where the capsule can be conveniently removed from the pocket and positioned within the filter material as discussed in detail above . Typically the peripheral face of the wheel is not covered by the ledger housing in the region where the capsule is released from the pocket. Preferably the ledger housing provides a plow or shoe to part or separate the web of filter material to ensure that the capsule is well positioned within the material as discussed in detail above . The ledger housing is manufactured from pre tempered cold rolled steel or the like.

The rate of supply of web of filter material the rate of rotation of the wheel of the capsule insertion unit and the rate of supply of strand can be controlled such that the capsules which are formed are positioned at the desired predetermined intervals within the web of filter material. In particular the rate of feed of capsules through the transfer means the positioning of the capsules within each pocket the rate of rotation of the wheel and subsequent positioning of the capsules within the resulting filter rod are synchronized with respect to the rate at which the filter material is fed into the rod forming unit . Other suitable configurations for providing a control of the feed of capsules rotation of wheel and feed of filter material may be apparent to the skilled artisan.

The individual capsules remain well positioned in each respective pocket until the insertion of the capsule into the web of filter material is desired. In particular the rim like nature of the ledger housing and plow relative to each pocket and the relative close spacing of the inner surface of the ledger housing and plow relative to the outer face of the pocket in combination with the supply of vacuum and air ejection allows each individual capsule to be maintained within the respective pocket preferably without moving longitudinally within the pocket until each capsule is deposited within the web of filter material.

Referring to the continuous web of filter material is fed into guide or block shown as partially cut away . The guide receives the wide band of filter material and gradually forms the web into a composite which generally resembles a cylindrical composite. The plow of the ledger housing separates or spreads the filter material such that the capsule is positioned or placed at the desired location within the web of filter material. When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the plow the motion of the tow acts to close itself into a cylindrical composite which contains the individual capsules at the desired locations therein. A suitable plow preferably has a maximum depth of about 0.25 inch.

The capsule is maintained within a pocket until the location at which the ledger housing does not cover the wheel as a rim at which point the capsule is inserted into the web of filter material with the assistance of air ejection through the bearing housing as described above. In such a manner the action of gravity is assisted and the capsule is forced from the selected pocket into the web of filter material at the desired location. The air is received from a source not shown such as a laboratory air supply or other suitable means. Other techniques for assuring removal of each capsule from each pocket at the desired location e.g. the use of mechanical or pneumatic plungers may be apparent to the skilled artisan.

Referring to the guide or block the top portion of which is shown as partially cut away has a relatively wide opening at one end in order that the filter material can be fed therein. A suitable wide opening is about 0.5 inch high and about 2.5 inches in width. A suitable block has a length of about 5.5 inches. The shape of the hollow inner portion of the block is such that the filter material is formed into a composite which more generally resembles a cylinder. A suitable composite is about 9 16 inch in diameter. In particular the inner portion of the block is a hollow region or cavity in order that the filter material can be passed therethrough. The block has a longitudinally extending slot along the top portion thereof in order to allow the rotating wheel and ledger housing not shown to extend into the web of filter material and to insert a capsule at the desired location therein. A suitable slot is about 4 inches long for a block having a length of about 5.5 inches. In a suitable situation the plow extends into the slot so as to extend about inch from the extreme bottom portion of the hollow inner portion of the block. The cylindrical composite is received by the receiving means of the rod forming unit as discussed hereinafter . In such a manner a series of capsules and are positioned in the web at predetermined intervals within the cylindrical composite which exits block into a gathering means such as a tongue not shown . Similar blocks are described in Green et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Referring now to an alternative embodiment of the capsule insertion unit is shown. In this embodiment a carousel is supported on a stand to be positioned in front of the rod making apparatus . The carousel is similar to the carousel described in . A series of stems around the periphery of the carousel rise and fall as the carousel rotates. When the stem is at its maximum height or apex position and located just below a transfer tube a positive air supply ejects the capsule from the stem which has been previously held by a vacuum and forces the capsule to travel through a transfer tube into an insertion plow . The insertion plow is positioned over the gathering filter material in position where the block is located. see A skirt around the top of the carousel retains the capsules on the surface plate of the carousel. The height of the skirt is sufficient to retain a predetermined amount of capsules that are fed to the carousel.

Referring to yet another embodiment of the capsule insertion unit is shown. In this embodiment a rotatable member includes an insertion wheel and bearing housing as previously described. The bearing housing is attached to a support plate . Also attached to the support plate is a feed hopper . The feed hopper receives capsules and places them along a portion of the periphery of the insertion wheel . With the vacuum assistance applied to the insertion wheel pockets the pockets grab capsules as the pockets rotate along side the feed hopper . As the insertion wheel rotates the capsules are brought down into the filter material and ejected into the gathering stream of filter material in the block as previously described.

Referring to still yet another alternative embodiment of capsule insertion unit is shown. In this embodiment a rotatable member as previously described having an insertion wheel is mounted on support plate . A capsule feed channel is also mounted above the insertion wheel on the support plate . The feed channel is in communication with a supply of capsules. The capsules flow along the feed channel and ride over in a direct contact with the insertion wheel. The capsules may flow in a continuous stream recirculating to a feed hopper to maintain a supply of capsules on the feed channel. As the insertion wheel rotates a vacuum applied to a pocket sucks a capsule from the feed channel. As the insertion wheel rotates the vacuumed capsule is brought around and down into the filter material in the block below the insertion wheel.

Referring to even another alternative embodiment of capsule insertion unit is shown in perspective with a portion partially cut away. In this embodiment a horizontally disposed rotatable member is mounted on a platform . Juxtaposed the horizontally disposed rotatable member a vertically disposed rotatable member as previously described having an insertion wheel is positioned to receive capsules individually transferred from the rotatable member . The drive shaft of the carousel is shown connected to a drive motor on a stand although any suitable means as known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be modified for rotating the carousel. The cam drum is fixed to the stand .

Referring to both and which is a cross sectional illustration of the capsule insertion unit of taken along lines the rotatable member includes a carousel having a pan with swales stem holes and bushings and a carousel skirt as previously described. The operation of the stem lifters is modified in this embodiment so that instead of lifting the capsule to a separate transfer tube as in a previous embodiment the stem lifter has an enlarged hollow interior to also act as the transfer tube. The carousel includes a retaining wall or skirt fixed around the upper perimeter of the pan. At the top of the retaining wall a flange extends radially inward to cover the stem holes . A plurality of ejector pins is mounted on and extending from the underside of the flange . Each ejector pin is positioned over a hole . Each stem lifter has a ball seat at the top of the stem lifter and a ball catcher at the bottom of the stem.

In operation as the pan rotates the cam followers rise and fall following the path of the cam channel . The stem lifters which are attached to the cam followers also rise and fall. As the top of the stem lifter moves below the surface of the pan a capsule from the pan will move onto the ball seat . Vacuum assistance via a vacuum channel may be provided to ensure capture of a capsule onto the ball seat as described above for a previous embodiment. When the stem lifter rises to near its apex the capsule comes into contact with the ejector pin above the capsule. The ejector pin may be made of any hard material such as UHMW Ultra High Molecular Weight polyethylene or aluminum. The ejector pin forces the capsule through the ball seat which is made from a soft resilient material such as an elastomer that when the object or capsule is a sphere preferably has between about 65 70 durometer. Such exemplary elastomers include for example EPDM Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer silicone rubber or natural gum rubber. The capsule drops through the hollow interior of the stem lifter down to the ball catcher which is made from a hard material such as UHMW polyethylene or aluminum. When the carousel rotates the capsule inside the ball catcher rolls along the surface of the platform until the ball catcher moves to a position adjacent a pocket in the insertion wheel . Then the capsule is drawn into the capsule seat in the pocket which may occur by gravity or with assistance from a combination of one or more of a release of a vacuum from the cam drum an air ejection from the cam drum or a vacuum applied through the insertion wheel as described above for previous embodiments.

Referring to filter rod generally can be further subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter elements using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing. The filter rod includes filter material encased in circumscribing wrapping material such as conventional air permeable or air impermeable paper plug wrap or other suitable wrapping material. As an example four capsules and are individually spaced at predetermined intervals within the rod . In particular each of the capsules is positioned along the rod in a spaced apart relationship from one another. As shown by lines and respectively the rod can be used as a four up rod to provide four filter elements. Other configurations such as the so called six up rods also can be manufactured. Rod sizes for use in the manufacture of filter elements for cigarettes can vary but typically range in length from about 80 mm to about 140 mm and from about 16 mm to about 27 mm in circumference. For example a typical rod having a 100 mm length and a 24.53 mm circumference exhibits a pressure drop of from about 200 mm to about 400 mm of water as determined at an airflow rate of 17.5 cc sec. using an encapsulated pressure drop tester sold commercially as Model No. FTS 300 by Filtrona Corporation.

Referring to smoking article has the form of a cigarette. The article includes rod including smokable material such as tobacco cut filler or the like contained in circumscribing wrapping material such a conventional cigarette paper wrap. The ends of the rod are open to expose the smokable material. Generally the length of the rod ranges from about 55 mm to about 85 mm. The smoking article further includes filter element positioned adjacent one end of rod such that the filter element is aligned with the rod in an end to end relationship. Filter element has a cross sectional shape similar to that of rod . The filter element is provided from filter rod the previously described filter rod and includes filter material circumscribing plug wrap and an individual capsule . The capsule is positioned within the filter element such that the capsule cannot be observed by visual inspection of the extreme mouthend of the cigarette. For example the capsule is centrally located longitudinally within the filter rod. The filter element is attached to the rod by tipping material which circumscribes both the filter element and an adjacent region of the rod. The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured e.g. using an adhesive to the outer surface of the filter element and to the wrapping material of an adjacent region of the rod . The tipping material circumscribes the rod over a longitudinal length which can vary but is typically that length sufficient to provide good attachment of the filter element to the rod. The tipping material can be a conventional air permeable or air impermeable tipping paper. The cigarette can be equipped with air dilution perforations or other means for providing air dilution thereto if desired. It is understood that more than one individually placed capsule can be positioned within the filter element if desired.

The size and shape of the capsule can vary. Generally the capsule has a generally spherical shape. Preferably the capsule is of a size such that each individual capsule can be positioned within the filter element of a cigarette without providing negative properties to the smoking article. For example it is desirable that the capsule not i stick out of the mouthend of the filter element or be otherwise visible ii be so large that the draw resistance of the smoking article be undesirably affected or iii provide an undesirable weight or feel to the smoking article. A suitable capsule for use in a filter element having a length of about 27 mm and a circumference of about 24.5 mm has a substantially spherical shape with a diameter of about 3.5 mm.

Most preferable inserted objects act as substrates for carrying or containing smoke modifying agents such as flavorants salivators or the like. The amount of smoke modifying agent carried or contained by an individual capsule depends upon the properties and characteristics of the smoke modifying agent the characteristics of the agent the desired delivery of smoke modifying agent and other such factors.

A representative capsule is generally spherical in shape. Such a capsule possesses an outer shell that surrounds an internal payload. The outer shell most preferably encloses the payload in such a manner that the payload is tightly sealed. The shape of the capsule can vary but the capsule most preferably is spherical. Most preferably the capsules have high degrees of roundness and possess consistent physical specifications e.g. consistent dimensions consistent weights and consistent formulations in order to enhance the ability to manufacture cigarettes incorporating those capsules using automated machinery and in order to produce cigarettes of consistent quality. Suitable capsules are commercially available from Mane Aromatic Flavors located in Nice France as gelatin encapsulated mixtures of medium chain triglycerides and flavor agents. The designations of a number of flavor capsules that are available from Mane Aromatic Flavors are Spearmint E209123 Cinnamon E0303392 Russian Tea E0303386 Lemon E127382 and Menthol E127384. Such representative capsules have diameters of about 3.5 mm and about 4 mm.

The capsule outer shell or surface is preferably constructed of somewhat rigid solid material that has a tendency not to leak melt crack or otherwise lose its integrity between the time that it is manufactured and the time it is selectively ruptured by a smoker. Preferably the capsule outer surface or wall is a continuous sealed one piece member in order to reduce the likelihood of leakage of the capsule payload. The preferred capsule outer surface is brittle enough to readily rupture when squeezed by a smoker but not so brittle that it breaks prematurely during manufacturing packaging shipping and use of the cigarette containing such a capsule. That is the pressure required to rupture the capsule within the filter element is preferably low enough to be easily performed using the fingers of the smoker but not so low as to result in accidental rupture of the cigarette during manufacturing packaging shipping and smoking. Furthermore the capsule outer surface preferably is constructed of material that does not adversely react with or otherwise undesirably affect the components of the payload the cigarette tobacco components of the filter element or the mainstream smoke produced by the cigarette.

The capsule payload can have a form that can vary and typically the payload has the form of a liquid a gel or a solid e.g. a crystalline material or a dry powder . The payload can incorporate components that aid in flavoring or scenting mainstream cigarette smoke. Alternatively the payload may be a breath freshening agent for the smoker a deodorizing agent for the cigarette butt a moistening or cooling agent for the cigarette smoke or a composition capable of otherwise altering the nature or character of the cigarette.

The payload most preferably has a liquid form. Such a payload can incorporate an aromatic material intended to be drawn to the smoker independent of the presence of mainstream smoke or material can become entrained within mainstream smoke during draw by the smoker. Preferred liquid payloads have the ability to seep or wick throughout the filter material of the filter element and in certain circumstances into the tobacco rod and hence be available to mix with the smoke drawn to the smoker.

In the preferred embodiment the capsule possesses an outer surface composed of gelatin and an internal payload incorporating an agent capable of altering the nature or character of mainstream smoke passing through the filter element. Typically the outer shell consists primarily of gelatin frequently is comprised at least about 80 weight percent gelatin and preferably consists essentially of gelatin. Outer shells consisting of essentially pure gelatin are particularly preferred. The gelatin material is preferably of a food grade and derived from bovine picine or porcine stock. A wide variety of gelatins may be used and the selection of a gelatin for the capsule outer surface is considered a matter of design choice to those of ordinary skill in the art. See Kirk Othmer 4Ed. 12 406 416 1994 which is incorporated herein by reference. The type of gelatin used for constructing the outer shell of the capsule provides that capsule with the capability of being exposed to triacetin a common plasticizer used in cigarette filter manufacture or 1 2 propylene glycol a common tobacco casing component for relatively long periods of time without experiencing undesirable interaction e.g. dissolution of the gelatin therein . Because the gelatins used in the preferred embodiments may dissolve in water over extended periods of time it is desirable to employ virtually anhydrous payloads or payloads possessing very low amounts of water with capsules having gelatin outer coatings. The capsules can be colored brown or some other dark color for assisting in detection purposes during automated manufacturing processes.

In the preferred embodiment the payload is a mixture of a flavoring and a diluting agent or carrier. The preferred diluting agent is a triglyceride such as a medium chain triglyceride and more particularly a food grade mixture of medium chain triglycerides. See for example Radzuan et al. 39 33 38 1999 . Flavorings of the payload may be natural or synthetic and the character of these flavors can be described without limitation as fresh sweet herbal confectionary floral fruity or spice. Specific types of flavors include but are not limited to vanilla coffee chocolate cream mint spearmint menthol peppermint wintergreen lavender cardamon nutmeg cinnamon clove cascarilla sandalwood honey jasmine ginger anise sage licorice lemon orange apple peach lime cherry and strawberry. See also Leffingwill et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . Flavorings also can include components that are considered moistening cooling or smoothening agents such as eucalyptus. These flavors may be provided neat i.e. alone or in a composite e.g. spearmint and menthol or orange and cinnamon . Composite flavors may be combined in a single capsule as a mixture or as components of multiple capsules positioned within the filter element.

The amount of flavoring and diluting agent within the capsule may vary. The relative amounts of flavoring and diluting agent selected as well as the overall amount of the mixture of the two may be varied for example to provide different sensory experiences for the smoker. In some instances the diluting agent may be eliminated altogether and the entire payload can be composed of flavoring agent. Alternatively the payload can be almost entirely comprised of diluting agent and only contain a very small amount of relatively potent flavoring agent. In the preferred embodiment using a capsule of approximately 3.5 mm in diameter the weight of the liquid payload e.g. flavoring agent and diluting agent is preferably in the range of about 15 mg to about 25 mg and more preferably in the range of about 20 mg to about 22 mg. The preferred composition of the mixture of flavoring and diluting agent is in the range of about 5 percent to about 25 percent flavoring and more preferably in the range of about 10 to about 15 percent flavoring by weight based on the total weight of the payload with the balance being diluting agent.

The weight of the capsule wall compared to the weight of the payload may vary. Preferably the capsule wall is in the range of about 5 percent to about 50 percent and more preferably in the range of about 10 to about 30 percent of the total weight of the capsule. For a representative preferred capsule of approximately 3.5 mm in diameter the capsule wall weighs about 2 mg to about 4 mg and the payload weighs about 16 to about 21 mg. The payload volume typically can be about 50 percent to about 90 percent of the total volume of the capsule i.e. including the wall and the payload preferably about 70 percent to about 90 percent of the total capsule volume and more preferably about 80 percent to about 90 percent of the total capsule volume.

The force required to rupture the preferred capsules before they are inserted into the filter element may be determined using a suitable force determining device such as the Shimpo Model No. FGV10X manufactured by Shimpo Instruments a division of the Nidec Group. When measured using a suitable device such as the Shimpo device the capsules preferably have individual crush strengths in the range of approximately 750 to 5000 more preferably less than approximately 2000 and still more preferably less than approximately 1500 most preferably approximately 1000 units provided by the Shimpo device are reported in grams .

Other capsules and capsule components that can be employed in carrying out certain aspects of the present invention are of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Appl. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al. and PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference.

Tobacco materials useful for carrying out the present invention can vary. Tobacco materials can be derived from various types of tobacco such as flue cured tobacco burley tobacco Oriental tobacco or Maryland tobacco dark tobacco dark fired tobacco and tobaccos as well as other rare or specialty tobaccos or blends thereof. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . Most preferably the tobaccos are those that have been appropriately cured and aged.

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise mixtures of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco. Such blends in many cases contain tobacco materials that have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as dry ice expanded tobacco DIET preferably in cut filler form . Tobacco materials also can have the form of reconstituted tobaccos e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes . The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Other representative tobacco types and types of tobacco blends also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 to Lawson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. US Pat. Application 2002 0000235 to Shafer et al. PCT WO 02 37990 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 285 395 filed Oct. 31 2002 and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 .

Tobacco materials typically are used in forms and in manners that are traditional for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within the tobacco rod of a cigarette ranges from about 0.6 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to fill the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cmto about 300 mg cm and often about 150 mg cmto about 275 mg cm.

If desired the tobacco materials of the tobacco rod can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

Smoke modifying agents which are carried or contained by the capsules include flavorants such as menthol cinnamon citrus cocoa licorice tobacco extract nicotine and the like. For example a typical filter element can contain one capsule containing from about 1 to about 10 percent of menthol based on the total weight of the capsule. The use of flavor containing capsules in filter elements of smoking articles provides for a well controlled application of desirable ingredients such as flavors into the smoking article. Of particular interest is the fact that certain materials can provide a continuous controlled release of certain ingredients over time. In addition the level of flavorant delivered to the user can be well controlled as when the flavorant is entrained in the mainstream aerosol during draw. As the flavorants are delivered to an appreciable degree from the filter element of the smoking article a relatively large amount of flavorant is not subjected to the high temperatures experienced in other regions of the smoking article e.g. in the tobacco rod . In addition the filter element is capable of modifying e.g. flavoring the aerosol delivered by a smoking article without the necessity of noticeably affecting the appearance or structure of the smoking article.

The outer wrapping material of the tobacco rod can vary. Preferably the outer wrapping material is a paper material such as the type of paper material typically used in cigarette manufacture. The wrapping material can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Smokable rods can have one layer of wrapping material or smokable rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap smokable rods. Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry PCT WO 01 08514 to Fournier et al. PCT WO 03 043450 to Hajaligol et al. US Pat. Application 2003 0114298 to Woodhead et al. US Pat. Application 2003 0131860 to Ashcraft et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 324 418 filed Dec. 20 2002 and Ser. No. 10 440 290 filed May 16 2003 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Representative outer wrapping materials are commercially available as R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Grades 119 170 419 453 454 456 465 466 490 525 535 557 652 664 672 676 and 680 from Schweitzer Maudit International. The porosity of the outer wrapping material can vary and frequently is between about 5 CORESTA units and about 100 CORESTA units often is between about 10 CORESTA units and about 90 CORESTA units and frequently is between about 20 CORESTA units and about 80 CORESTA units.

Preferred cigarettes made by the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw whether or not the capsules within their filter elements are broken. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available form Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the teachings herein may be used to make in accordance with this invention alternative configurations of filters incorporating capsules or other objects. For example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 600 712 filed Jun. 23 2002 by Dube et al. entitled Filtered Cigarette Incorporating A Breakable Capsule and commonly owned by the assignee of the present application describes hollow filters and segmented filters which incorporate breakable flavorant capsules. This application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

