---

title: Multi-platform in-application payment system
abstract: Systems and methods for providing multi-platform, in-application payments include transferring funds, by a payment service provider device, from a funding source to a payment account in response to receiving a first fund transfer instruction from one of a first user device and a second user device over a network. The payment service provider device then associates the payment account with a first platform application in response to receiving a first association instruction from the first user device over the network, and associates the payment account with a second platform application in response to receiving a second association instruction along with the user account information from a second user device over the network. The payment service provider device will pay for each of a first in-application purchase associated with the first platform application and a second in-application purchase associated with the second platform application using the payment account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558478&OS=09558478&RS=09558478
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09558478
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130222
---
The present invention generally relates to online and or mobile payments and more particularly to a multi platform in application payment system and method for making online and or mobile payments.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an on line or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why on line and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

One popular form of online and mobile purchases are in application purchases. Applications such as for example gaming applications social networking applications and or a variety of other applications known in the art may allow a user to make purchases within the application for gaming currency communications application access and or a variety of other in application items or actions known in the art. These purchases are typically preceded by the association by the user of a funding source e.g. a credit card with the application such that when an in application purchase is made in that application that funding source may be charged the amount of the purchase. However such application purchase systems are inconvenient for the user as the user must provide the funding source for each application with which the user wishes to make in application purchases.

Application platforms such as for example the App Store provided by Apple Google Play provided by Google and the Windows Store provided by Microsoft have attempted to make in application purchases easier by allowing a user of their application platform to create an application platform account and associate a funding source with that application platform account. The user may then provide their application platform account credentials e.g. an identification and password to any application operating on the application platform each time an in application purchase is made to have that in application purchase charged to the funding account associated with the application platform account. However many users either have a plurality of different types of devices that provide different application platforms or otherwise pay for purchases made from devices that provide different application platforms. In such situations the user must then create an application platform account and provide a funding source for each application platform.

Furthermore tracking in application purchases may raise issues whether using a per application funding source or a per application platform funding source. For example if different funding sources are used across applications or application platforms the user may have trouble compiling in application purchases made using the different funding sources in order to track their in application spending behavior. Furthermore those funding sources will typically allow the user to spend more on in application purchases than the user would otherwise desire.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for multi platform in application payments. As is known in the art computer systems such as the user devices discussed below typically provide a hardware architecture and a software framework as an application platform to run applications. For example Apple based computer systems e.g. mobile devices that run the iOS operating system provide an application platform to run applications that are available from the App Store provided by Apple Android based computer systems e.g. mobile devices that run the Android operating system provide an application platform to run applications that are available from Google Play provided by Google Windows computer systems e.g. mobile devices that run the Windows operating system provide an application platform to run applications that are available from the Windows Store provided by Microsoft and so on. A user may add applications to a user device that provides the appropriate application platform and those applications will then allow the user to make purchases for items or actions in the application while running the application i.e. in application purchases. 

The systems and methods of the present disclosure simplify payments for in application purchases for items or actions in applications operating in multiple different platforms by funding a payment account from a funding source and then associating that payment source with a plurality of different applications operating on different application platforms via different user devices. For example a user may use a first user device that provides a first application platform to associate the payment account with a first application and that user may use a second user device that provides a second application platform to associate the payment account with a second application. Subsequent to these associations any in application purchases in the different applications may be quickly and easily paid for using the single payment account regardless of the application platform that application is operating on.

Furthermore the payment account or multiple payment accounts may be designated as different budget payment accounts in order to allow the user to associate each budget account with different types of in application spending. For example a gaming budget payment account may be associated with gaming applications that may operate on different application platforms and thus all in application spending related to gaming applications may be paid for using the gaming budget payment account regardless of the application platform upon which those gaming applications operate. In some embodiments budget payment accounts may be provided limited funds so that in application spending using those budget payment accounts may be limited or controlled by the user e.g. when the funds in the budget payment account have been used up further in application purchase requests will be denied. 

The multi platform in application payment system allows the easy tracking of in application purchases made in different applications operating across a plurality of application platforms and the systems and methods discussed herein may provide for reporting any in application purchases that are paid for using the payment account. For example any in application purchases made in different applications operating across different application platforms using the payment account or budget payment accounts may be recorded and reported to the user so that the user can quickly and easily determine spending habits with regard to their in application purchases regardless of which application platform those purchases are associated with.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for providing multi platform in application payments is provided. In the discussion of the method below a system is provided that includes a user having a plurality of user devices account providers that provide funding accounts to the user and a payment service provider that provides a payment account for the user. The user may link and or use the user devices funding accounts and payment account as discussed below. However a wide variety of modification to the systems and methods discussed below is envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure including the system and method being provided and or performed by an account provider or other system provider rather than by the payment service provider as discussed below. 

The method begins at block where funds are transferred from a funding source to a payment account. In the embodiments discussed below a user may have user accounts with one or more account providers and a user account with the payment service provider. For example a user may have a checking account with a checking account provider a savings account with a savings account provider a credit account with a credit account provider and or a variety of other funding accounts offered by a variety of other funding account providers known in the art. The user also has a user account with a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. and the user may link any or all their funding accounts provided by the account providers with the user account provided by the payment service provider. Once linked to the user account provided by the payment service provider a funding account may then be used to pay for purchases made by the user from application providers via the user account provided by the payment service provider. For example the user may pay for a purchase from an application provider by providing user account information for the user account provided by the payment service provider and the payment service provider will compete that purchase using funds from a designated funding account. However in the systems and methods discussed below the payment service provider provides the user with a payment account into which the user may transfer funds from a funding account and then that payment account may be used to make payment to application providers.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated that includes a chassis that houses a display device . The display device is displaying a funding transfer screen that may be provided by the payment service provider during block of the method . For example the user may use the user device to connect to a payment service provider device over a network e.g. the Internet and then user the user device to provide user account information e.g. a user name account number password etc. to the payment service provider device to access the user account provided by the payment service provider. In response to verifying the user account using the user account information the payment service provider device may provide the funding transfer screen over the network to the user device .

The embodiment of the funding transfer screen in includes a funding account section a transfer amount section and a payment account section . The funding account section includes a plurality of funding accounts and that the user may have previously associated with the user account provided by the payment service provider as discussed above. The transfer amount section includes an input box in which the user may provide an amount to transfer from a selected funding account in the funding account section to a selected payment account in the payment account section . The payment account section includes a plurality of payment accounts and that are budget payment accounts that the user may have previously set up in association with the user account provided by the payment service provider. In the example provided in the illustrated embodiment the user has set up budget payment accounts for a groceries budget payment account a restaurant budget payment account a gaming budget payment account a child budget payment account and a child budget payment account . As discussed below the payment accounts allow the user control over the spending in any particular budget category by limiting the amount of funds in that payment account such that payment will be denied for any purchases requested using that payment account when that payment account does not include the funds to satisfy that purchase request.

While a specific example of a funding transfer screen has been provided a wide variety of modifications and additions will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

For example other funding accounts known in the art may be associated with the user account provided by the payment service provider and thus provided in the funding account section for selection by the user. In another example the transfer amount section may provide options for reoccurring automatic fund transfers such as for example options that allow the user to have funds e.g. a predetermined amount or varying amount transferred from a selected funding account to a selected payment account at a selected time of the week month year etc. In another example rather than the plurality of payment accounts a single payment account may be provided by the payment service provider to the user such as for example a PayPal Bucks account available from PayPal Inc of San Jose Calif.

Thus in the illustrated embodiment of block the user has used the funding transfer screen on the user device to provide an instruction to the payment service provider to transfer 50 from the checking account to the gaming budget payment account . That funding transfer request may then be transmitted from the user device e.g. in response to selecting a send button not illustrated over the network to the payment service provider device. In response to receiving the funding transfer instruction the payment service provider device then sends an instruction over the network to the account provider device that provides the funding account selected in the funding transfer instruction and that instruction causes the account provider device to transfer the funds requested in the funding transfer instruction to the payment service provider device. Upon receiving the funds from the account provider device the payment service provider device may transfer or otherwise credit the payment account e.g. the gaming budget payment account provided in the funding transfer instruction with the transferred funds. In different embodiments block of the method may be performed to make several funds transfers to one or more payments accounts either at the same time or at different times.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where the payment account is associated with applications operating on different platforms. illustrates the user device displaying on its display device an embodiment of an application home screen that includes a plurality of application icons . As discussed above the user device may provide an application platform for running applications and thus each of the application icons may be associated with an application that runs on a particular application platform. Thus each of the application icons is associated with an application that operates on the application platform provided by the user device . As can be seen different types of applications may be accessed through the application icons included on the application home screen including but not limited to a messaging application a weather application a map application a camera application a photo application a video application a clock application a calculator application a settings application a calendar application gaming applications a mail application a web application a phone application and a music application.

Furthermore the user may at least one other user device that is substantially the same as the user device but that provides a different application platform than the application platform provided by the user device . For example the user device may provide a mobile device available from Apple that includes an application platform to run applications that are available from the App Store provided by Apple while the at least one other user device of the user may be an Android mobile device that includes an application platform to run applications that are available from Google Play provided by Google . Furthermore the user may be associated with other user devices through other users and that user device may provide the same application platform as one of the user devices of the user or a different application platform than the user devices of the user. For example the user may provide a payment account for a user device used by a child of the user. While the embodiment discussed herein involves applications running on mobile devices non mobile devices e.g. desktop computers are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure.

At block of the method the user may use their user devices or another user may use a user device associated with the user to associate the payment account that was funded in block of the method with applications that operate on different application platforms. illustrates an application payment account linking screen that may be accessed using an account function a settings function and or other functions in an application. The illustrated embodiment of the application payment account linking screen includes a payment account input and credential inputs and and the user may link the payment account funded in block with an application by providing the payment account in the payment account input along with the credential for that payment account in the credential inputs and . While a specific example has been provided one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of different information may be provided by the user to link a payment account with an application while still remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

For example the user may have a first user device e.g. the user device illustrated in that provides a first application platform and at block of the method the user may select an application icon on the application home screen to open up an application. With that application open the user may access an application payment account linking screen for that application and provide a first association instruction along with user account information for the user account e.g. the payment account in the payment account input and user account information in the credential inputs and provided by the payment service provider in order to associate the payment account with the application that operates on the first platform provided by the first user device.

Similarly the user may have a second user device substantially similar to the user device illustrated in that provides a second application platform and at block of the method the user may select an application icon on the application home screen to open up an application. With that application open the user may access an application payment account linking screen for that application and provide a second association instruction along with user account information for the user account e.g. the payment account in the payment account input and user account information in the credential inputs and provided by the payment service provider in order to associate the payment account with the application that operates on the second platform provided by the second user device. Further still a child of the user may have a third user device substantially similar to the user device illustrated in that provides an application platform that may be the first application platform the second application platform or a third application platform and at block of the method the child of the user may select an application icon on the application home screen to open up an application. With that application open the child may access an application payment account linking screen for that application and provide a third association instruction along with user account information for the user account e.g. the payment account in the payment account input and the user account information in the credential inputs and provided by the payment service provider in order to associate the payment account with the application that operates on the platform provided by the third user device. Thus the payment account may be associated with a plurality of applications with at least two of those applications operating on different application platforms.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where a request is received for an in application purchase. illustrates an embodiment of an in application purchasing screen provided by a gaming application that in the illustrated embodiment is a gambling gaming application. As is known in the art the user may select an appropriate application icon on the application home screen of the user device illustrated in in order to open up the gaming application to be provided or to navigate to the in application purchasing screen . The in application purchasing screen includes an account tab a gaming currency indicator and a buy currency button . In an embodiment the account tab may be selected by the user in order to access the application payment account linking screen that allows the user to associate the payment account with the application as discussed above with reference to block . In another embodiment the buy currency button may be selected by the user to request an in application purchase of game currency i.e. to increase the amount of game currency in the game currency indicator which one of skill in the art will recognize that the user may use to gamble in the gambling gaming application. For example the user may send an in application purchase request over the network from the gaming application on the user device illustrated in by selecting the buy currency button and providing information about that in application purchase e.g. a request to transfer 5 from the payment account to receive 1000 gaming currency. In response due to the previous association of the payment account with the application the payment service provider device receives the in application purchase request. In an embodiment because of the previous association of the payment account and the application the user is not required to enter an identification password or other credentials for the payment account.

Thus at block an in application purchase request may be received by the payment service provider device from an application on a user device that provides a particular application platform and that application platform may be any of a plurality of application platforms provided by different user devices belonging to or associated with the user and the payment account or accounts funded in block . For example the user may have linked a gaming budget payment account with a gaming application operating on a first application platform and at block that user may request an in application purchase in that gaming application. In another example the user may have funded a child budget payment account at block at block a child of the user may have associated that child budget payment account with a gaming application operating on a second application platform and at block the child may have provided a request for an in application purchase in that gaming application.

The method then proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the payment account has sufficient funds for the in application purchase request received at block . Upon receiving the in application purchase request the payment service provider device uses information in the request e.g. a user name payment account number user account information and or credentials purchase amount purchase type etc. to access a database including details of the payment account of the user that is associated with that application and thus associated with that in application purchase request. The payment service provider device then compares the purchase amount in the in application purchase request with the funds available in the payment account to determine whether the payment account has sufficient funds to satisfy the in application purchase request. If at decision block it is determined that the payment account associated with the in application purchase request does not have sufficient funds to satisfy the in application purchase request the method proceeds to block where the in application purchase request is denied. In an embodiment at block the payment service provider device may send a request denial over the network to the user device and or an application provider device of the application provider in order to deny the in application purchase request. Thus a user may fund a payment account or budget account with a limited amount of funds such that once those funds are spent further in application purchases will be denied. Following the denial of the in application purchase request the method may return to block to receive in application purchase requests. As discussed above the funding of the payment account described above with reference to block may occur at different time during the method such that an in application purchase request received after a request denial at block may be associated with a payment account that has sufficient funds to satisfy that in application purchase request.

If at decision block it is determined that the payment account associated with the in application purchase request has sufficient funds to satisfy the in application purchase request the method proceeds to block where the in application purchase is paid for. In an embodiment if the payment service provider device determines at decision block that the payment account includes sufficient funds to satisfy the in application purchase request the payment service provider device will transfer funds e.g. the purchase amount in the in application payment request from the payment account to an account of the application provider. In response to that transfer an application provider device of the application provider may credit the user via the application designated in the in application purchase request with gaming currency or other purchasable items or actions available in the application.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where the payment of the in application purchase request is recorded. In an embodiment the payment service provider device records the payment made at block as an in application purchase along with details associated with that in application purchase such as for example the application the application platform the purchase amount the date of the in application purchase a description of the in application purchase and or a variety of other in application purchase details known in the art. In an embodiment reports may be sent e.g. over the network from the payment service provider device to the user device that detail in application purchases made using a payment account or payment accounts. illustrates an embodiment of a payment account reporting screen that may be provided by the payment service provider device to the user device periodically e.g. weekly monthly etc. on request and or a variety of other manners known in the art. The payment account reporting screen includes a first payment account report and a second payment account report . In the embodiment provided in the first payment account report is a report for a gaming budget payment account that the user may have associated with multiple gaming applications using different application platforms during the method while the second payment account report is a report for a child budget payment account that the user may have funded for a child followed by that child associating that payment account with multiple applications using different application platforms during the method .

The first payment account report in the example of includes for each in application purchase made by the user that was associated with the gaming budget payment account a date a gaming application indicator a purchase amount and a description of what was purchased e.g. different amounts of gaming currency GC are provided. The second payment account report in the example of includes for each in application purchase made by the child of the user and associated with the child budget payment account a date an application indicator a purchase amount and a description of what was purchased e.g. different amounts of gaming currency GC social network emails and application access are provided. Thus the user is provided reports of a variety of in application spending using a payment account or different payment account that allows that user to track their spending of a particular type e.g. on gaming applications in the example provided or the spending of a child or other related person.

Thus a system and method for multi platform in application payments has been described that allows a user to associate a pool or pools of funds as payment account s that can be used across applications operating on different application platforms and that may be provided to set limits on spending to manage types of purchases or purchases by associated users. Furthermore reports may be issued for each payment account to allow the user to easily track and manage spending by one or more users and or spending that is associated with applications that operate on different application platforms.

Referring now to an embodiment of a network based system for implementing one or more processes described herein is illustrated. As shown network based system may comprise or implement a plurality of servers and or software components that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. Exemplary servers may include for example stand alone and enterprise class servers operating a server OS such as a MICROSOFT OS a UNIX OS a LINUX OS or other suitable server based OS. It can be appreciated that the servers illustrated in may be deployed in other ways and that the operations performed and or the services provided by such servers may be combined or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of servers. One or more servers may be operated and or maintained by the same or different entities.

The embodiment of the networked system illustrated in includes a plurality of user devices a plurality of application provider devices a payment service provider device and a plurality of account provider devices in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the user device discussed above. The application provider devices may be the application provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the application providers discussed above. The payment service provider device may be the payment service provider devices discussed above and may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be the account provider devices discussed above and may be operated by the account providers discussed above such as for example credit card account providers checking account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art.

The user devices application provider devices payment service provider device and account provider devices may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The application provider device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line application provider conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the application provider device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the user.

The application provider device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display device and an input device including the display device and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile user devices and or desktop user devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user device the user device the user device the application provider device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by user application providers payment service providers and account providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device and the application provider device s the payment service provider device and or the account provider device s . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a payment service provider device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to payment engine that is coupled to a user database and an account database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The payment engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to verify a user using the user database receive fund transfer instructions transfer funds from a funding source to a payment account in the account database associate a payment account with an application in the account database receive requests for in application purchases determine whether a payment account has sufficient funds to satisfy an in application purchase request using the account database deny an in application purchase request transfer funds to pay for an in application payment request record in application purchases in the user database provide payment account reports and perform any of the other functionality that is discussed above. While the databases and have been illustrated as located in the payment service provider device one of skill in the art will recognize that they may be connected to the payment engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on users and application providers however a user or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus application provider as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a user. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

