---

title: Steering column for a motor vehicle
abstract: A steering column for a motor vehicle has an adjustment unit () which bears a section of the steering shaft () and which, in the open state of a locking apparatus (), is pivotable relative to a bracket unit () about a pivot axis () for adjustment of the steering column in an adjustment direction () for a height or tilt adjustment. The pivot axis () is formed by a spindle bolt () which can be mounted so as to be fixed with respect to the vehicle and which extends through a first and a second elongated hole () of the adjustment unit (). In the event of a vehicle crash, the adjustment unit () is displaceable relative to the spindle bolt () with displacement of the spindle bolt () in the elongated holes (), wherein, in a region situated between the first and the second elongated hole () in relation to the direction of the pivot axis (), there is arranged an energy absorption part () with which the spindle bolt (), during the displacement thereof in the elongated holes (), interacts with plastic deformation of the energy absorption part () owing to exertion of pressure on the energy absorption part () and displacement of material of the energy absorption part ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09540032&OS=09540032&RS=09540032
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
number: 09540032
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130923
---
The invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle having a rotatably mounted steering shaft and having an adjustment unit which bears a section of the steering shaft adjoining a steering wheel side end of the steering shaft and which in the open state of a locking apparatus is pivotable relative to a bracket unit about a pivot axis for adjustment of the steering column in an adjustment direction for a height or tilt adjustment and the pivoting of which relative to the bracket unit about the pivot axis is locked in the closed state of the locking apparatus wherein the pivot axis is formed by a spindle bolt which can be mounted so as to be fixed with respect to the vehicle and which extends through a first and a second elongated hole of the adjustment unit and wherein in the event of a vehicle crash the adjustment unit is displaceable relative to the spindle bolt with displacement of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes.

Adjustable steering columns permit an adaptation of the position of the steering wheel to the seating position of the driver. Nowadays steering columns are normally adjustable not only in height or tilt but also in length.

In the event of a vehicle crash a steering column should be capable of collapsing with corresponding absorption of energy. For this purpose it is known to provide two parts which are displaceable relative to one another in a displacement direction wherein the displacement direction is generally parallel to that section of the steering shaft which adjoins the steering wheel side end which section is itself of telescopic form. Acting between the two parts that are displaceable relative to one another in the event of a crash there is at least one element which imparts a force that opposes the displacement in order to realize a predefined absorption of energy. For example energy absorption parts may be provided which are formed from sheet metal strips that are bent in a U shape wherein during the displacement of the two parts bending work is performed on the sheet metal strip. Instead of bending strips it is also possible for tear away strips to be provided. Such steering columns emerge for example from EP 1 479 593 B1 EP 1 707 471 A1 and EP 1 187 752 B1.

EP 0 479 455 A2 has disclosed a steering column in which a unit which bears the steering shaft is connected by way of fastening bolts to a part which is fixed with respect to the vehicle. The fastening bolts extend through elongated holes formed in the unit whereby a displacement of the unit relative to the part which is fixed with respect to the vehicle is made possible in the event of a crash. In an initial position the fastening bolts extend in each case through an enlarged section in the respective elongated hole. In the event of a crash the adjoining section of the elongated hole which is of smaller width is successively flared by the fastening bolt whereby energy absorption is realized. Similar steering columns are known from U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 769 851 and 6 378 903 B1.

A steering column of the type mentioned in the introduction emerges from EP 1 083 109 B1. In said document too it is the case in the event of a crash that the elongated holes through which the spindle bolts extend are flared with absorption of energy during the displacement of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes. Here the bracket unit relative to which the adjustment unit which serves for the rotatable mounting of the steering shaft is fixed in the closed state of the locking apparatus is in the event of a crash released from a part which is fixed with respect to the vehicle and on which the bracket unit is mounted.

A disadvantage of steering columns in which the energy is absorbed between the spindle bolt and the first and second elongated holes through which said spindle bolt extends is that it must be ensured with a high level of precision that the conditions between the spindle bolt and the first elongated hole and between the spindle bolt and the second elongated hole are exactly identical. The steering column can otherwise be pulled into a skewed position in the event of a crash. Proper energy absorption is then no longer realized.

WO 2010 069448 A1 presents a steering column with first and second bolts which each extend through an elongated hole wherein the two elongated holes are arranged at different distances from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft. By means of different inclinations of the two elongated holes it is possible to realize a simultaneous length and height adjustment of the steering column during the displacement of the bolts in the elongated holes. Adjoining the adjustment region of the elongated holes the latter have an energy absorption section wherein in the event of a displacement of the bolt through the energy absorption section in the event of a crash energy is absorbed.

A similar steering column which is simultaneously adjustable in length and height emerges from CN 102069840 A. In that case however energy absorption in the event of a crash takes place between two column parts of the steering column.

In the case of the steering column known from WO 2008 083811 A1 in the event of a crash energy absorption takes place between a casing unit which serves for the rotatable mounting of the steering shaft and the adjustment unit which in the open state of the locking apparatus is pivotable relative to the bracket unit about a pivot axis.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 874 228 B2 presents a design of a pivot spindle for the pivoting of an adjustment unit which serves for the rotatable mounting of the steering shaft relative to a bracket unit in the open state of a locking apparatus in order to permit a height adjustment of the steering column. Here two pivot bolts are provided which extend through elongated holes in the adjustment unit. In the open state of the locking apparatus the pivot bolts can be displaced in the elongated holes whereby a length adjustment of the adjustment unit is made possible.

It is an object of the invention to provide a steering column of the type mentioned in the introduction which has an energy absorption device for a crash situation which steering column is easy to assemble and can be easily adapted to the respectively desired energy absorption conditions. This is achieved according to the invention by means of a steering column having the features of claim .

In the case of the steering column according to the invention in a region situated between the first and the second elongated hole in relation to the direction of the pivot axis for the pivoting of the adjustment unit relative to the bracket unit there is arranged an energy absorption part. The spindle bolt which in the assembled state of the steering column is mounted so as to be fixed with respect to the vehicle is rigidly connected to the chassis of the motor vehicle interacts with said energy absorption part when in the event of a vehicle crash the adjustment unit is displaced relative to the spindle bolt and thus the spindle bolt is displaced in the first and second elongated holes. In this case the energy absorption part is plastically deformed by the spindle bolt wherein the spindle bolt exerts pressure on the energy absorption part and material of the energy absorption part is displaced.

In this way it is possible in a simple and controlled manner to realize an absorption of energy when in the event of a crash the adjustment unit is displaced relative to the spindle bolt which is mounted so as to be fixed with respect to the vehicle. Here very good guidance of the adjustment unit is made possible because the guidance of the spindle bolt in the first and second elongated holes is not impaired. The first and second elongated holes remain undeformed during a displacement of the spindle bolt in the longitudinal direction of said elongated holes.

The energy absorption part is composed preferably of metal particularly preferably of a steel. It is however also conceivable and possible for the energy absorption part to be formed from a plastic or an elastomer.

There is expediently a sliding fit between the spindle bolt and those edges of the elongated holes which extend in the longitudinal direction of the elongated holes and which delimit the elongated holes in terms of width. There is thus a small amount of play between the spindle bolt and the edges which delimit the elongated holes in the longitudinal direction thereof.

In the assembled state and during normal operation for as long as no vehicle crash has occurred the spindle bolt is situated in an initial position relative to the elongated holes and the adjustment part is held so as to be secured against a displacement relative to the spindle bolt in the event of which the latter would be displaced in the elongated holes. Said retention is expediently free from play or exhibits only a small amount of play which amounts to at least less than one tenth of the longitudinal extent of the elongated holes .

If when the spindle bolt is situated in its initial position the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft is subjected to a force which is directed in the longitudinal direction of the longitudinal axis of the section of the steering shaft adjoining the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft and which acts in the sense of a collapse of the steering column that is to say is directed toward the front of the vehicle the spindle bolt expediently remains non displaceable relative to the elongated holes and thus in its initial position without play or with a small amount of play of less than one tenth of the longitudinal extent of the elongated holes up to a threshold value limit value of said force. Said threshold value is to be set on a vehicle specific basis or is to be defined through the construction. Said threshold value is advantageously greater than 700 N. The system must however preferably also be capable of being set for a threshold value below 2000 N. If said threshold value is overshot the adjustment unit is then displaced relative to the spindle bolt such that the spindle bolt is displaced relative to the elongated holes wherein said spindle bolt approaches those ends of the elongated holes which are situated closer to the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft . In this case energy is absorbed owing to the interaction with the energy absorption part.

It is expediently the case that the energy absorption during the displacement of the spindle bolt proceeding from its initial position commences at least within a displacement travel which amounts to less than one fifth of the total possible displacement travel of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes. The interaction of the spindle bolt with the energy absorption part and thus the energy absorption preferably commences directly at the beginning of the displacement of the spindle bolt from its initial position.

An advantageous embodiment of the invention provides that up to the threshold value of the force above which the displacement of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes commences the spindle bolt is held in its initial position that is to say so as to be non displaceable relative to the elongated holes and thus relative to the adjustment unit by the energy absorption part.

It is advantageously the case that in its initial position the spindle bolt is situated in the region of those ends of the elongated holes which are averted from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft that is to say are further remote from said end. Those edges of the elongated holes which delimit the longitudinal extent of the elongated holes in the direction away from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft thus support the spindle bolt in its initial position so as to prevent displacement of said spindle bolt relative to the adjustment unit in the direction away from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft.

The spindle bolt advantageously interacts with the energy absorption part at least over the major part of the possible displacement travel of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes preferably over the entire possible displacement travel.

During the interaction of the spindle bolt with the energy absorption part when the spindle bolt is displaced in the elongated holes relative to the adjustment unit the energy absorption part is plastically deformed. Energy is absorbed as a result of said plastic deformation. Is advantageously the case during the energy absorption that the elongated holes or the edges thereof are not plastically deformed. In this way the guidance can be very accurately ensured over the entire travel during the energy absorption the crash travel.

In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the energy absorption part has a ramp. Said ramp has the effect that with progressive displacement of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes that is to say with increasing distance from the initial position of said spindle bolt the spindle bolt penetrates to an ever increasing depth into the energy absorption part. Thus in the region of the ramp the energy absorption part projects further into the movement path of the spindle bolt the further the spindle bolt has travelled from the initial position. Thus the energy absorbed per unit distance of the displacement of the spindle bolt progressively increases. Such a ramp may extend over the entire distance over which the spindle bolt interacts with the energy absorption part during the displacement in the elongated holes or may extend only over a part of said distance. The ramp advantageously extends over more than 50 of said total distance.

A particularly advantageous embodiment of the invention provides that the energy absorption part is formed by a separate component which in the assembled state of the steering column is fixed to the adjustment unit so as to be non displaceable relative thereto and which projects into the movement path of the spindle bolt during the displacement thereof relative to the elongated holes such that during a displacement of the spindle bolt relative to the elongated holes said component is squeezed between the spindle bolt and the adjustment unit at least over a part of said displacement. Said component is preferably inserted into a depression formed in the adjustment unit. Said depression is formed in that region of the adjustment unit which is situated between the first and the second elongated hole in relation to the axial direction of the spindle bolt .

It is preferably the case that the energy absorption part is formed from sheet metal preferably from sheet steel and has a bulged region. The spindle bolt interacts with a surface of said bulged region. As viewed from that side of the energy absorption part which is situated opposite that surface of the energy absorption part which interacts with the spindle bolt the energy absorption part thus has a depression. In other words the energy absorption part has a trough like form wherein the surface which interacts with the spindle bolt is situated in the region of the base of the trough on the side directed away from the depression.

A sheet metal part of said type may be formed in particular by way of a forming operation such as deep drawing or stamping.

For the retention of the energy absorption part in the depression of the adjustment unit the energy absorption part preferably has laterally projecting retention lugs. Said retention lugs project in the axial direction of the spindle bolt in the direction of the pivot axis from both sides of the bulged region of the energy absorption part. For example it is possible for two projecting retention lugs to be provided on each side of the energy absorption part. By means of said retention lugs the energy absorption part expediently digs into side walls of the depression in order to be fastened in the depression. For this purpose the retention lugs arranged on the opposite sides of the energy absorption part may initially be oriented in a V shape with respect to one another. After the insertion of the energy absorption part into the depression a pressing tool is mounted onto the retention lugs and the latter are bent in the direction of the base of the depression wherein said retention lugs dig into the side walls of the depression.

The locking apparatus in the open state of which the steering column is adjustable and in the closed state of which the set position of the steering column is fixed may be designed in a variety of ways and may act in a non positively locking and or positively locking manner. Other designs of locking apparatuses that may basically be used are known from the prior art for example also from the prior art mentioned in the introductory part of the description.

The steering shaft may be rotatably mounted by way of a casing unit which in turn is borne by the adjustment unit. To perform a length adjustment of the steering column the casing unit may in the open state of the locking apparatus be adjustable relative to the adjustment unit in the axial direction of the steering shaft wherein two telescopic sections of the steering shaft are also displaced relative to one another . In the closed state of the locking apparatus said displaceability of the casing unit is then fixed.

If it is the intention for the steering column to only be adjustable in height an additional casing unit may also be omitted with the steering shaft being directly rotatably mounted in the adjustment unit. In other words the adjustment unit and the casing unit are then formed in one piece or the adjustment unit is also formed as the casing unit which serves for rotatably mounting the steering shaft.

In the event of a crash in order to permit the displacement of the adjustment unit relative to the spindle bolt which is mounted so as to be fixed with respect to the vehicle it may be provided both in the case of a steering column embodiment which is only adjustable in height or tilt and in the case of a steering column embodiment which is moreover also adjustable in length that the connection between the bracket unit and the chassis of the motor vehicle is designed to be detachable wherein the detachment occurs when the acting force exceeds a limit value . It could also be provided that the bracket unit is connected to an assembly unit mounted fixedly with respect to the vehicle and is displaceable relative to said assembly unit when the acting force exceeds a limit value in the event of a crash. In this embodiment in the event of a crash the adjustment unit and the bracket unit which is connected thereto by way of the locking apparatus are jointly displaced relative to the spindle bolt which is mounted fixedly with respect to the vehicle.

On the other hand it could also be provided that in the event of a crash when the force acting on the adjustment unit exceeds a threshold value the adjustment unit can be displaced relative to the bracket unit for example with the retention force of the closed locking apparatus imparted by non positive locking being overcome.

An exemplary embodiment of the invention will be discussed below on the basis of and to and and . show another embodiment of the invention. Identical components or components of identical function are denoted in the various embodiments by the same reference signs.

The steering column has a rotatably mounted steering shaft to which a steering wheel can be attached at a steering wheel side end . A section of the steering shaft adjoining the steering wheel side end is rotatably mounted by way of a casing unit . The casing unit is borne by an adjustment unit which in turn is borne by a bracket unit which at least during normal operation for as long as no vehicle crash has occurred is mounted fixedly with respect to the vehicle. For this purpose in the exemplary embodiment mounting holes are illustrated which are extended through by mounting screws for the purposes of mounting on the motor vehicle.

In the exemplary embodiment the adjustment unit is in the form of a cast part in particular an aluminum casting or a magnesium casting. The adjustment unit may also be in the form of a sheet metal molded part or may be manufactured from some other material.

The steering column has a locking apparatus which in the exemplary embodiment shown can be adjusted between an open state and a closed state by way of an actuation lever . In the open state the casing unit can be adjusted relative to the adjustment unit in the adjustment direction for a length adjustment of the steering column said direction lying parallel to the longitudinal axis of that section of the steering shaft which adjoins the steering wheel side end . Furthermore the adjustment unit can be adjusted relative to the bracket unit in the adjustment direction for a height or tilt adjustment. For this purpose the adjustment unit is pivoted about a pivot axis . When the steering column is mounted in the motor vehicle the pivot axis is fixed with respect to the vehicle and oriented horizontally.

To rotationally secure the casing unit relative to the adjustment unit there is mounted on the casing unit a cam which is guided in a slot of the adjustment unit so as to be displaceable in the direction of the longitudinal axis .

In the closed state of the locking apparatus the set position of the steering column is locked that is to say the casing unit is held so as to be non displaceable relative to the adjustment unit and the adjustment unit is held so as to be non pivotable about the pivot axis relative to the bracket unit .

For length adjustment of the steering column in the adjustment direction in the open state of the locking apparatus the steering shaft has steering shaft sections which can perform a telescopic movement relative to one another cf.

The locking apparatus may be designed in a variety of ways. For example it may be provided that the actuation lever as it pivots about the axis of a clamping bolt of the locking apparatus rotates a cam disk about said axis relative to a cam disk which is held so as to be non rotatable about said axis with bracing of the bracket unit adjustment unit and casing unit being realized. Differently modified locking apparatuses may likewise be used. The parts casing unit adjustment unit and bracket unit that are locked by the locking apparatus may be held so as to be non adjustable in the respective adjustment direction by non positively locking and or positively locking action. In the exemplary embodiment the retention is realized by way of non positive locking. The more exact design of the locking apparatus is not the subject of the present invention. Differently designed locking apparatuses are known from the prior art for example from the prior art mentioned in the introductory part of the description.

In the exemplary embodiment shown the bracket unit has side cheeks which extend to both sides of the adjustment unit and between which the adjustment unit is situated. The side cheeks have elongated holes which extend in the adjustment direction and through which the clamping bolt extends. In the closed state of the locking apparatus the side cheeks are pressed against side surfaces of the adjustment unit . A slot of the adjustment unit which slot is for example situated on the underside of the adjustment unit and which extends in the direction of the longitudinal axis and proceeds from that end of the adjustment unit which points toward the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft is compressed in the process such that the casing unit is clamped by the adjustment unit .

The adjustment unit has a first and a second guide limb which guide limbs project from a base section of the adjustment unit . A first elongated hole is formed in the first guide limb and a second elongated hole is formed in the second guide limb . The elongated holes have longitudinal extents lying parallel to one another. In the exemplary embodiment the longitudinal extents of the elongated holes lie parallel to the longitudinal axis of that section of the steering shaft which adjoins the steering wheel side end as is preferred. Deviations from this are conceivable and possible wherein such deviations from the parallel orientation with respect to the longitudinal axis preferably amount to less than 30 .

As viewed in the direction of the pivot axis the first and the second elongated hole have congruent extents.

The elongated holes are formed in a region of the adjustment unit which is at a greater distance from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft than that region of the adjustment unit which interacts with the locking apparatus .

The elongated holes are extended through by a spindle bolt which forms the pivot axis . The axial direction of the spindle bolt thus coincides with the pivot axis and the pivot axis extends through the spindle bolt . In the operational state of the steering column the spindle bolt is mounted fixedly with respect to the vehicle. In dashed lines are used to indicate two fastening lugs which are mounted on the chassis of the motor vehicle and between which the spindle bolt extends. The fastening lugs lie adjacent to the adjustment unit at both sides.

The spindle bolt has an outer diameter b which is smaller than the width B of the respective elongated hole as measured at right angles to the longitudinal extent of the respective elongated hole . In this way a degree of play for the displacement of the spindle bolt in the longitudinal direction of the elongated holes is formed. The degree of play is preferably less than 0.5 mm.

The guide legs are spaced apart from one another as viewed in the direction of the pivot axis . An energy absorption part is arranged in the region situated between the first and the second guide leg and thus between the first and the second elongated hole as viewed in the direction of the pivot axis . The energy absorption part is inserted into a depression preferably a blind bore of the adjustment unit . The depression has a base on which the energy absorption part lies. In the depression the energy absorption part is also held so as to be secured against displacement relative to the adjustment unit in the direction of the longitudinal axis or in the direction of the longitudinal extent of the elongated holes . For this purpose the energy absorption part lies against walls of the depression which delimit the depression in said direction cf. .

Furthermore for the retention of the energy absorption part in the depression laterally projecting retention lugs of the energy absorption part dig into side walls of the depression as will be discussed in more detail further below.

The energy absorption part is formed from an originally planar metal sheet. The finished energy absorption part has a bulged region wherein in the event of a crash during a displacement of the spindle bolt in the elongated holes the spindle bolt interacts with a surface of the bulged region of the energy absorption part . In a cross section through the energy absorption part running parallel to the pivot axis the energy absorption part has first and second lateral support webs which are connected by a top web cf. . The parts and together have a U shaped form as viewed in cross section. At their ends remote from the top web the support webs are connected by way of curved portions to laterally projecting rest webs . The latter lie on the base of the depression . Altogether the energy absorption part is of hat shaped form as viewed in cross section.

The top web is spaced apart from the base of the depression and runs parallel to said base as viewed in the cross section perpendicular to the displacement direction in the event of a crash.

In the longitudinal central section through the energy absorption part running parallel to the longitudinal axis of that section of the steering shaft which adjoins the steering wheel side end said energy absorption part has end side support webs which adjoin the top web at both sides cf. . At their ends remote from the top web said support webs are connected by way of curved portions to forwardly and rearwardly projecting rest webs which lie on the base . In the exemplary embodiment shown in as viewed in longitudinal section the top web runs in inclined fashion with respect to the base whereby a ramp is formed. The inclination amounts to preferably less than 10 . Alternatively in the exemplary embodiment shown in as viewed in longitudinal section the top web runs parallel with respect to the base such that the top web does not exhibit an inclination.

The laterally projecting retention lugs are arranged in regions of recesses in the laterally projecting rest webs . After the formation of the energy absorption part and before the latter is fastened to the adjustment unit the retention lugs are inclined obliquely upward in the direction pointing away from the plane of the longitudinal central section through the energy absorption part as viewed in cross section in the direction of a straight line forming an extension of the top web . The retention lugs which are arranged on opposite sides of the energy absorption part as viewed in the cross section are thus oriented in a V shape with respect to one another. In this state the energy absorption part is inserted into the depression cf. . Here the retention lugs are spaced apart from the side walls of the depression or lie against the side walls without digging into the latter. Subsequently by means of a pressing tool schematically indicated in the retention lugs are pushed downward in the direction of the base . They thus come into intimate contact with the side walls and dig into the latter cf. . In the state in which the retention lugs are oriented parallel to the base and thus lie parallel to the lateral support webs the retention lugs extend further outward than the lateral support webs . The energy absorption part is thus fastened to the adjustment unit by way of a very simple assembly process.

The spindle bolt can be supported so as to be prevented from being displaced relative to the elongated holes from said initial position in the direction pointing away from the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft by the end edges of the elongated holes . The spindle bolt is supported so as to be prevented from being displaced relative to the adjustment unit starting from the initial position in the direction toward the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft for example by the energy absorption part . For this purpose the spindle bolt makes contact with a section adjoining the top web of the end side support web . indicates that there is a degree of play between the spindle bolt and the energy absorption part . When the spindle bolt is retained in the initial position by the energy absorption part such play is however preferably non existent or only very small such that the possible displacement of the spindle bolt without deformation of the energy absorption part is preferably less than 1 mm .

The fixing of the spindle bolt in the initial position relative to the elongated holes may also be realized in some other way in particular also by way of two other interacting parts as will be discussed further below. A combination of the stated measures is also possible.

When the steering wheel side end of the steering shaft is subjected to a force acting in the direction of the longitudinal axis in the sense of a collapse of the steering column that is to say toward the front of the vehicle the spindle bolt remains in its initial position for as long as said force does not exceed a predefined threshold value limit value . In the context of this document a crash situation means that the threshold value is exceeded. Said threshold value is advantageously at least 800 N. The threshold value expediently lies below 2000 N. The level of the threshold value is configured in the design of the steering column. If the threshold value is exceeded the adjustment unit is displaced relative to the spindle bolt which remains fixed with respect to the vehicle wherein the spindle bolt is displaced relative to the elongated holes specifically in a direction pointing toward the steering wheel side end . Here the spindle bolt interacts with the energy absorption part whereby energy is absorbed.

During the interaction of the spindle bolt with the energy absorption part the spindle bolt runs against the energy absorption part and plastically deforms the latter by virtue of material of the energy absorption part being displaced. Here the energy absorption part is squeezed by the spindle bolt that is to say a pressure is exerted on the energy absorption part by the spindle bolt .

The compressive stress that is imparted leads in particular to a flow of material of the energy absorption part . and show a state of the spindle bolt in which the latter has been displaced out of the initial position wherein the deformation of the energy absorption part with a flow of material has been illustrated on a greatly exaggerated scale. are intended to illustrate that the spindle bolt preferably effects a flow of material of the energy absorption part in particular of the top web at least inter alia in the longitudinal direction of the elongated holes . In the embodiment corresponding to the material displacement is greater because the top web is provided with an inclined ramp by contrast to the embodiment corresponding to in which the top web is oriented so as to run parallel to the base .

In addition to or instead of a flow of material of the top web the pressure imparted by the spindle bolt may also cause a deformation of the energy absorption part for example in the region of the support webs .

At least a part of the energy absorption may thus also be realized by way of deformation work performed on the energy absorption part by the spindle bolt . Here the energy absorption part is subjected to compressive load. It is however preferable for at least a part preferably at least a major part particular preferably more than 90 of the energy absorption to be realized not by way of bending work performed on the energy absorption part but by way of other deformation work performed on the energy absorption part .

Owing to the ramp described which has been formed by the top web corresponding to the embodiment illustrated in and the energy absorption part projects to an increasing extent into the movement part of the spindle bolt with increasing distance of spindle bolt from its initial position that is to say the overlap u cf. of the spindle bolt with the energy absorption part increases. The energy absorption thus increases with increasing distance from the initial position of the spindle bolt during the displacement thereof in the elongated holes . In the exemplary embodiment shown the ramp has a constant inclination that is to say lies in a plane. In other exemplary embodiments it would be possible for example for the inclination of the ramp to increase with increasing distance from the initial position of the spindle bolt . A correspondingly progressive increase in energy absorption can thereby be realized.

The desired energy absorption may be set in a very simple manner by way of the shape of the energy absorption part in particular the magnitude of the overlap u along the movement path of the spindle bolt and or the sheet metal thickness and or the material characteristics of the metal sheet.

To permit the displacement of the adjustment unit relative to the spindle bolt in the event of a crash it may be provided in the exemplary embodiment shown that the bracket unit can detach from the vehicle chassis in the event of a crash. For this purpose the bracket unit may for example be connected to the vehicle chassis by way of fastening screws which engage into slots which are open toward the front of the vehicle in the vehicle chassis. If a force acting on the bracket unit in the direction of the longitudinal axis toward the front of the vehicle exceeds a limit value the fastening screws are pushed out of the open ends of the slots. Another possibility is for example for the bracket unit to be connected to an assembly unit which in turn is fastened to the vehicle chassis. The bracket unit is in the manner of a carriage guided so as to be displaceable relative to the assembly unit in the direction of the longitudinal axis . Here between the bracket unit and the assembly unit there is formed a breakaway connection which breaks if a force acting on the bracket unit in the direction of the longitudinal axis toward the front of the vehicle exceeds a limit value whereupon the displacement between the bracket unit and the assembly unit is made possible. A breakaway connection of said type may be realized for example by way of a plastics part. If the spindle bolt is held in its initial position by the energy absorption part or by other interacting parts it would also be possible for a breakaway connection of said type to be omitted.

In another possible embodiment it could also be provided that the adjustment unit is displaceable relative to the bracket unit in the event of the force exceeding the threshold value up to which the spindle bolt remains in its initial position. For example said displaceability could be made possible by virtue of the locking force imparted by the closed locking apparatus being overcome. In the exemplary embodiment shown this would be made possible by virtue of the friction force between the side cheeks and the side surfaces of the adjustment unit being overcome. Here it would be possible for the clamping bolt to extend through elongated holes running parallel to the elongated holes in the adjustment unit .

In other design variants of the invention it would also be possible for the energy absorption part to be fastened to the adjustment unit in some other way for example by welding. A materially integral form of the energy absorption part with the adjustment unit is basically also conceivable and possible.

It would also be possible for the spindle bolt to be of multi part form and to comprise for example an inner journal and a sleeve which is arranged on the latter and situated in the region between the elongated holes .

