---

title: Microinverters for employment in connection with photovoltaic modules
abstract: Microinverters useable in association with photovoltaic modules are described. A three phase-microinverter receives direct current output generated by a microsystems-enabled photovoltaic cell and converts such direct current output into three-phase alternating current out. The three-phase microinverter is interleaved with other three-phase-microinverters, wherein such microinverters are integrated in a photovoltaic module with the microsystems-enabled photovoltaic cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143053&OS=09143053&RS=09143053
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 09143053
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130115
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 594 776 filed on Feb. 3 2012 and entitled PARALLEL INTERLEAVED INVERTERS . This application is additionally a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 543 297 filed on Jul. 6 2012 and entitled PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER GENERATION SYSTEM FREE OF BYPASS DIODES which is a continuation in part U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 914 441 filed on Oct. 28 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 933 458 filed on Nov. 1 2007. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Environmental concerns pertaining to utilization of fossil fuels to generate electric power together with the non renewable nature of such fossil fuels have increased demand for alternative energy sources. Exemplary electric power systems that utilize renewable energy resources include solar power systems wind power systems hydroelectric power systems geothermal power systems amongst others.

Conventional solar power systems particularly those utilized to provide electric power to a residence include solar panels that comprise a plurality of relatively large silicon photovoltaic cells e.g. approximately six inches by six inches . For instance a single solar panel can include approximately 72 cells. The solar cells are manufactured to output a certain voltage e.g. 0.6 V for silicon cells that is approximately constant regardless of an amount of solar radiation received at the solar cells. Additionally the solar cells are electrically connected in series within a solar panel such that the solar panel produces approximately 40 V. A typical residential solar system includes several solar panels e.g. between 5 and 10 and the panels are electrically connected in series thereby resulting in several hundred cells being electrically connected in series that collectively output a voltage that is approximately equal to the sum of the voltages of the individual cells.

In typical solar power system installations the series connected cells are coupled to an inverter that converts direct current output by the solar power installation into alternating current suitable for provision to the electric grid. Generally because power produced by the photovoltaic system is relatively high the inverter tends to be relatively sizable and costly due at least in part to a large capacitance needed in a DC link that couples the solar power system to the inverter as well as the relatively large inductance required on an output leg of the inverter for purposes of filtering. Moreover such inverters are generally sold separately from the solar panels themselves. Thus to install a solar power system on a residence the panels themselves must be mounted wired inverters must be added etc. increasing the cost of installing the solar power system.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to microinverters that can be utilized in connection with photovoltaic modules that include solar cells. In an exemplary embodiment such solar cells can be microsystems enabled photovoltaic MEPV cells although the invention is not so limited. MEPV cells are photovoltaic cells manufactured utilizing semiconductor manufacturing techniques and tend to be relatively small with diameters for instance between 100 m and 5 mm with thicknesses between 1 m and 1000 m. Pursuant to an exemplary embodiment a photovoltaic module includes at least one MEPV cell that is electrically connected to a three phase microinverter. The microinverter can include a DC link with a capacitance of between 100 nF and 1 F. It is to be understood however that in other embodiments the DC link can have a larger capacitance such as between 1 F and 5 F or more. Additionally the inverter can comprise three phase legs wherein inductance of each of the three phase legs can be between 4 mH and 10 mH. It is to be understood that the inductance is dependent upon switching frequency as the switching frequency increases an amount of inductance decreases. In an exemplary embodiment the three phase microinverter can be included in an apparatus that is physically separate from the photovoltaic module. In another exemplary embodiment the three phase microinverter can be integrated into the photovoltaic module such that the MEPV cell and the three phase microinverter reside on a common substrate. Thus the three phase microinverter can be an integrated circuit.

Further a photovoltaic module can include numerous sub modules that are connected in series wherein each string of sub modules can have a respective three phase microinverter electrically connected thereto. These three phase microinverters can be electrically connected in parallel.

Pursuant to another example a photovoltaic module can be associated with a plurality of interleaved microinverters that are electrically connected in parallel with one another. In such an embodiment the microinverters can be single phase three phase or any poly phase microinverters. Again pursuant to an example such microinverters can be integrated into the photovoltaic module. As the photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of interleaved microinverters power rating of such microinverters can be relatively small. For instance the power rating of an interleaved microinverter can be between 15 W and 30 W. Additionally each phase leg of each interleaved microinverter can have in inductance of between 500 pH and 1 mH although as mentioned above such inductances can depend upon a switching frequency employed. As is well known to practitioners the inductance also depends on power rating and specifications for current ripple and can be implemented with values much different than the range between 500 H and 1 mH if preferred by the designer.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to associating microinverters with photovoltaic modules that comprise micro system enabled photovoltaic MEPV cells will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to an exemplary photovoltaic module is illustrated. The photovoltaic module can be a portion of a solar power system. For example the photovoltaic module can also be referred to as a solar panel solar module or the like.

In an exemplary embodiment the photovoltaic module can comprise a plurality of MEPV cells that are selectively electrically connected in series and parallel in a manner described herein to cause the photovoltaic module to output a desired amount of voltage at a desired amount of current. MEPV cells are manufactured by way of semiconductor manufacturing techniques and are relatively small with diameters of between 100 m and 5 mm and thicknesses as low as 1 m for a III V cell but potentially as large as 1000 m. Due to the relatively small size of the MEPV cells the photovoltaic module can comprise thousands of MEPV cells in comparison to the 72 cells included in conventional photovoltaic modules.

As shown in the photovoltaic module can comprise a first solar cell . In an exemplary embodiment the first solar cell can be a MEPV cell. Thus the first solar cell in an exemplary embodiment can be a III V cell such as a gallium arsenide GaAs cell an indium gallium phosphide InGaP cell or an indium gallium arsenide InGaAs cell. In other exemplary embodiments the first solar cell can be a silicon Si cell. In still another embodiment the first solar cell can be a germanium Ge cell. In still another exemplary embodiment the first solar cell can be a multi junction cell that comprises a suitable combination of the aforementioned cell types electrically connected in series. In still another example the first solar cell may be a portion of a multi junction cell that is independently contactable. It is therefore to be understood that the first solar cell can be any suitable type of solar cell or portion of a multi junction solar cell.

Further while not shown the first solar cell can be a portion of a string of solar cells connected in series. As will be shown below such series connected string of solar cells can be coupled in parallel with other series connected strings of solar cells. These parallel connections may then be coupled in series with other similarly configured groups of solar cells such that the photovoltaic module outputs a desired voltage and current. In an exemplary embodiment operating voltage of the solar cell can be between 0.2 V and 3 V. Current traveling over the solar cell can be relatively low such as on the order of milliamps.

The photovoltaic module further comprises a first microinverter that is configured to convert direct current output by the first solar cell to alternating current. In an exemplary embodiment the first microinverter can be a three phase microinverter that converts direct current output by the first solar cell to three phase alternating current. As shown in the first microinverter can be an integrated circuit that is integrated into the photovoltaic module such that the first microinverter lies on a substrate with the first solar cell . In another exemplary embodiment the first microinverter can be in an apparatus that is separate from the photovoltaic module such that the first microinverter can be implemented as a printed circuit board with discrete circuit elements. Other embodiments are likewise contemplated. The first microinverter thus acts as at least a portion of an interface between the photovoltaic module and the AC grid.

The photovoltaic module can also comprise a second solar cell . The second solar cell can likewise be an MEPV cell and can additionally be any of the cell types mentioned above with respect to the first solar cell . Further it is to be understood that a type of the first solar cell can be different from a type of the second solar cell . The photovoltaic module further comprises a second microinverter that is electrically connected to the second solar cell . The second microinverter receives direct current output by the second solar cell and in an exemplary embodiment converts such direct current to three phase alternating current. As shown the first microinverter and the second microinverter can be electrically connected in parallel and can collectively act as at least a portion of an interface between the cells of the photovoltaic module and the AC grid. In an exemplary embodiment the first microinverter and the second microinverter can be integrated in the photovoltaic module . In other embodiments the first microinverter and the second microinverter can be in an apparatus that is separate from the photovoltaic module .

While the photovoltaic module is shown as including two microinverters connected in parallel it is to be understood that the number of microinverters included in the photovoltaic module can be greater than two. For example if the photovoltaic module comprises eight separate sub modules for example then the photovoltaic module may include eight microinverters that respectively correspond to the eight sub modules and wherein the eight microinverters are electrically connected in parallel with one another.

In another exemplary embodiment the first microinverter and the second microinverter can be interleaved. The interleaving of the first microinverter and the second microinverter can result in substantial cancellation of the current ripple of the individual inverters and while the fundamental component of each waveform output by the respective microinverters and are constructively reinforced when summed. In such an exemplary embodiment the microinverters and can be single phase inverters three phase inverters or some other poly phase inverters. Additionally when multiple microinverters are connected in parallel in the photovoltaic module power rating of such microinverters can be reduced. For example the power rating of the microinverters and can be between 15 W and 30 W. In contrast if a single microinverter is employed to interface the photovoltaic module with the AC grid the power rating of such microinverter can be between 150 W and 300 W.

With reference now to a schematic diagram of a microinverter which can be the first microinverter and or the second microinverter is illustrated. As shown in the microinverter is shown as being connected to the photovoltaic module rather than connected to a sub module of the photovoltaic module . It is to be understood however that the microinverter can be coupled to a single solar cell a string of series connected solar cells series connected sub modules of the photovoltaic module a single sub module of the photovoltaic module etc.

The microinverter comprises a plurality of transistors that are electrically connected to the photovoltaic module by way of a DC link. The DC link has a capacitor which represents DC link capacitance. Such capacitance can be between 100 nF and 5 g. In an exemplary embodiment the capacitance of the DC link can be 200 nF. The capacitor is employed to buffer the photovoltaic module from switching transients and maintain a small module voltage ripple. The aforementioned capacitance of 200 nF was selected via simulation to cause ripple losses to be less than 0.25 at a rated power of 200 W. It can therefore be ascertained that the capacitance of the capacitor can be selected based on a threshold of acceptable ripple losses. For the microinverter to be operational the DC link voltage v must always exceed the peak AC voltage.

The microinverter comprises three phase legs that are coupled to the AC grid. Each of the phase legs has an inductance between 4 mH and 10 mH. In an exemplary embodiment each of the phase legs can have an inductance of 6 mH.

Maximum power point tracking can be employed in connection with controlling the microinverter . A maximum power point tracker can be employed in connection with generating a voltage command for the photovoltaic module . A PI controller can be employed to ensure that the voltage of the photovoltaic module is driven to the voltage commanded by the maximum power point tracker by altering the magnitude of the phase current command which controls current generated by the photovoltaic module . A voltage with respect to neutral can be determined through a phase locked loop. In general the current output by the photovoltaic module the voltage of the photovoltaic module a neutral voltage and current of the three phase legs can be monitored and employed in connection with outputting signals for a pulse width modulator to control the plurality of transistors . The overall function of the control system is to increase the output current when the voltage of the photovoltaic module is above the module maximum power point and decrease the output current when the voltage of the photovoltaic module is below the module maximum power point.

Now referring to a system of interleaved microinverters that can be associated with the photovoltaic module is illustrated. An interleaved set of n triangular waveforms with period Tcan be generated by introducing specified amounts of time delay between each of the multiple waveforms. Specifically each waveform can be delayed by a unique multiple of where T n. Generally any number of interleaved triangular waveforms greater than one sums to a smaller magnitude than the magnitude of the constituent waveform. It can therefore be concluded that if interleaved triangular waveforms are superimposed on any set of other waveforms such as sine waves and summed the net signal contains the non triangular portions of the original signals and the triangle ripple is attenuated.

In an exemplary embodiment the triangular carrier waveforms are interleaved such that each carrier is delayed by a unique multiple of A which can be defined as follows 

The inductance on any phase legs of the microinverters can be between 200 H and 1 mH. In an exemplary embodiment the inductance can be 800 H. The system further comprises a plurality of pulse width modulators that are respectively controlled by control systems . As indicated above the control systems control the pulse width modulators such that the switch timing among the microinverters is interleaved. In such an exemplary embodiment the power rating of each of the microinverters can be relatively low such as between 15 W and 30 W. Additionally it can be noted that in an MEPV module because of the relatively low current that flows through each microinverter and because conduction losses are proportional to the current squared high resistances can be tolerated while keeping conduction losses low. Specifically an exemplary maximum allowable total resistance within one phase branch of a three phase integrated inverter R while maintaining conduction losses below 1.5 can be estimated as follows 

The system further comprises at least one voltage source wherein a number of voltage sources is equivalent to a number of AC phases. Further connections from the inverters are illustrated as single wires it is to be understood however that a number of wires exiting the inverters is equivalent to a number of AC phases.

Now referring to an exemplary photovoltaic sub module that can be included in the photovoltaic module is illustrated. Pursuant to an example size of the photovoltaic sub module can be between 10 cm and 30 cm in length and between 10 cm and 30 cm in width. The photovoltaic sub module comprises a plurality of groups of electrically connected photovoltaic cells wherein the groups are electrically connected in series. While the photovoltaic sub module is shown as including 20 groups it is to be understood that a number and arrangement of groups in the photovoltaic sub module can depend upon a desired voltage output by the photovoltaic sub module . Furthermore while the photovoltaic sub module is shown as being a definable physical sub element of the photovoltaic module it should be understood that a photovoltaic sub module can be defined by a circuit that is employed to connect cells in a solar panel. Both arrangements are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic sub module can comprise approximately 100 groups wherein each of the groups is configured to output a consistent voltage for example approximately 2.4 V. In such example the desired output of the photovoltaic sub module is approximately 240 V. Furthermore as will be shown in an example herein some of the groups may be connected in parallel. For instance the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a first plurality of groups that are connected in series and a second plurality of groups are connected in series wherein the first plurality of groups and the second plurality of groups are connected in parallel.

As shown a microinverter such as the first microinverter or the second microinverter is connected to the sub module by way of groups and respectively. While shown as being separate from the sub module it is to be understood that the microinverter can be integrated in the sub module . Furthermore as the photovoltaic module comprises a plurality of such groups a plurality of microinverters can be independently coupled to a respective plurality of groups and such microinverters can subsequently be electrically connected in parallel.

Turning now to an exemplary group that can be included as one of the groups in the photovoltaic sub module is illustrated. The group comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells . Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic cells can be MEPV cells. For example the following references which are incorporated herein by reference described the building of photovoltaic modules that comprise numerous photovoltaic cells using micro fabrication techniques Nielson et al. Microscale C SI C PV Cells for Low Cost Power 34IEEE Photovoltaic Specialist Conference June 7 10 2009 Philadelphia Pa. 978 1 4244 2950 90 and Nielson et al. Microscale PV Cells for Concentrated PV Applications 24European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference Sep. 21 25 2009 Hamburg Germany 3 936338 25 6.

Thus as mentioned above the photovoltaic cells can be or include Si cells GaAs cells and InGaP cells. Therefore it is to be understood that at least one of the photovoltaic cells can be III V photovoltaic cells. Additionally or alternatively the photovoltaic cells can include at least one Ge cell. Still further the photovoltaic cells can be or can be included in multi junction cells that include layers of differing types of photovoltaic cells with differing band gaps. As mentioned above in an exemplary embodiment each layer of the multi junction cell can be independently contacted. In another example a multi junction cell may be contacted at one position such that voltages of the cells in the multi junction cell are series generated voltages. Thus in an exemplary embodiment each of the photovoltaic cells can be multi junction cells wherein for each multi junction cell layers are integrally connected. This effectively creates a string of photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series in a relatively small amount of space.

In an exemplary embodiment the group can comprise a first string of photovoltaic cells a second string of photovoltaic cells a third string of photovoltaic cells and a fourth string of photovoltaic cells . The first string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. Similarly the second string of photovoltaic cells comprises photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. The third string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. The first string of photovoltaic cells the second string of photovoltaic cells the third string of photovoltaic cells and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells are electrically connected in parallel.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art different types of photovoltaic cells have different operating voltages. For instance if the photovoltaic cells are Ge cells the operating voltage may be approximately 0.3 V. If the photovoltaic cells are Si cells then the operating voltage can be approximately 0.6 V. If the photovoltaic cells are GaAs cells then the operating voltage may be approximately 0.9 V and if the photovoltaic cells are InGaP cells then the operating voltage may be approximately 1.3 V. Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic cells can be Si cells. In such an example each of the strings of photovoltaic cells outputs approximately 2.4 V a common voltage and therefore the group of photovoltaic cells is configured to output approximately 2.4 V. In this case strings and have different numbers of cells for the different cell types approximating the common voltage. For example in an exemplary embodiment the first strings of photovoltaic cells can include eight Ge cells the second string of photovoltaic cells can include four Si cells the third string of photovoltaic cells can include three GaAs cells and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells can include two InGaP cells. Slight voltage mismatch is tolerable and if desired a larger number of cells and a higher voltage can be used to provide more precise voltage matching. Additionally power management circuitry can be used independently boost voltages generated by the series connections of different cell types to a common voltage. If the desired output of the photovoltaic module is approximately 240 V then the photovoltaic sub module can include 100 of the groups electrically connected in series. Thus each sub module in the photovoltaic module can output approximately 240 V and the output of the photovoltaic module is thus approximately 240 V. It will be recognized that the configuration of cells groups and sub modules can be arranged to obtain a desired output voltage.

Continuing with the example set forth above the photovoltaic module can include 38 400 cells. When an entirety of the photovoltaic module is illuminated with solar radiation the photovoltaic cells in each of the groups generate approximately 4 mW of electric power.

With reference now to an exemplary photovoltaic sub module that can be included as one of the photovoltaic sub modules in the photovoltaic module is illustrated. Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a plurality of multi junction photovoltaic cells such that each multi junction photovoltaic cell comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells. As discussed above each multi junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Si photovoltaic cell and a III V photovoltaic cell. In a more specific example each multi junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Ge photovoltaic cell a Si photovoltaic cell a GaAs photovoltaic cell and an InGaP photovoltaic cell.

The exemplary photovoltaic sub module comprises 72 multi junction photovoltaic cells wherein each of the multi junction photovoltaic cells comprises a Ge cell a Si cell a GaAs cell and an InGaP cell. These different cells are shown as laid out adjacent to one another however such layout is for purposes of explanation. As indicated above the cells in the multi junction cells are stacked on top of one another. In another exemplary embodiment cells can be placed in a side by side configuration e.g. if spectrum spreading optics are used .

The photovoltaic module comprises different numbers of each cell type connected in series to create a string to arrive at similar intermediate higher voltages. These strings can be connected in parallel to effectively add currents. In an example a desired intermediate voltage output by the photovoltaic sub module can be approximately 10 V. As discussed above a Ge cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.3 V a Si cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.6 V a GaAs cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.9 V and an InGaP cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 1.3 V. Therefore the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a first string of Ge cells and a second string of Ge cells that each comprises 36 cells electrically connected in series. Accordingly each of the first string of Ge cells and the second string of Ge cell outputs approximately 10.8 V. Further while not shown a first microinverter can be connected to the parallel combination of the first string of Ge cells and the second string of Ge cells .

The exemplary photovoltaic sub module further comprises a first string of Si cells a second string of Si cells a third string of Si cells and a fourth string of Si cells . Each of the strings of Si cells can comprise 18 cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string outputting approximately 10.8 V. As mentioned above a microinverter can be electrically connected to the parallel combination of the strings of Si cells.

The sub module can additionally comprise a first string of GaAs cells a second string of GaAs cells a third string of GaAs cells a fourth string of GaAs cells a fifth string of GaAs cells and a sixth string of GaAs cells . Each of the strings of GaAs cells can comprise 12 cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string of GaAs cells outputting approximately 10.8 V. Similar to what has been described above the parallel combination of the strings of GaAs cells can have a microinverter electrically connected thereto.

Further the sub module can also comprise a first string of InGaP cells a second string of InGaP cells a third string of InGaP cells a fourth string of InGaP cells a fifth string of InGaP cells a sixth string of InGaP cells a seventh string of InGaP cells an eighth string of InGaP cells and a ninth string of InGaP cells . Each of the strings of InGaP cells can comprise eight cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string of InGaP cells outputting approximately 10.4 V. Again at least one microinverter can be connected to a parallel combination of InGaP cells. The micro inverters respectively coupled to the strings of different cell types can then be connected in parallel for example in an interleaved fashion.

From the above it can be ascertained that an intermediate operating voltage for each string of cells can be approximately 10 V. It can further be ascertained that voltages output by strings of different cell types are not identical and thus the voltage output by the sub module will be the lowest voltage output by the string of cells.

Because only one type of cell is initially connected in series power output from other cells in the sub module is relatively unaffected by spectral shifts that cause a decrease in output of one type of cell versus another.

With reference now to exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

With reference solely to an exemplary methodology for including a three phase microinverter in a photovoltaic module is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a photovoltaic module that comprises a solar cell is received. At a three phase microinverter is electrically coupled to the solar cell thereby causing energy generated by the solar cell when irradiated with solar radiation to be converted from direct current to three phase alternating current. As mentioned above the microinverter can be an integrated circuit that is integrated directly into the photovoltaic module with the solar cell. The methodology completes at .

With reference now to an exemplary methodology that facilitates utilizing interleaved microinverters in a photovoltaic module is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a photovoltaic module that comprises a plurality of sub modules is received. Such sub modules can include for instance a plurality of MEPV cells that are electrically connected in series. Additionally a sub module can include groups of MEPV cells that are electrically connected in series.

At integrated interleaved microinverters are electrically connected to respective sub modules. Therefore for example each sub module can have a microinverter electrically connected thereto and the microinverters can be controlled such that they are interleaved. At the interleaved microinverters are connected in parallel such that the output of the photovoltaic module is the output of a plurality of parallel interleaved inverters. The methodology completes at .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

