---

title: Parental notification of prohibited activities
abstract: Methods, systems, and products notify parents of child activities. A child's device stores rules that prohibit certain activities. When the child's device attempts a prohibited activity, a message is sent to a notification address associated with the parent. The message, for example, may be sent to the parent's cell phone. The instant message describes the prohibited activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08885803&OS=08885803&RS=08885803
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08885803
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130419
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 548 796 filed Oct. 12 2006 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 437 460 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60 823 955 filed Aug. 30 2006 entitled Communication System with Broad Band Station with both applications incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure is generally related to communication systems and more particularly is related to integration of communication systems.

Generally a telephone is used to provide voice communications between two parties. For other communications another communication device is often used such as a computer where visual information may be conveyed. Regardless of the capabilities of a computer the telephone is a focal point of communications within a household. However with emerging communication modes and channels integration of these devices and elements are desired especially with the increased prevalence of home networks.

Thus a heretofore unaddressed need exists in the industry to address the aforementioned deficiencies and inadequacies.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods systems and devices for user supervision and notification. In this regard one embodiment of such a method among others can be broadly summarized by the following monitoring activities performed by a telephone device and notifying a user of the activities performed by the telephone and identification of users performing the activities notification of activities being made by the telephone device.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to one embodiment of a communication system includes a broadband station BBS . BBS in one embodiment is a client device with Internet access designed to connect to a local access network LAN . BBS may also be WI FI client IEEE 802.11b 802.11g compliant and be designed to connect with wireless LAN WLAN not shown . It is contemplated that the BBS may often be situated at a user premises.

Accordingly one embodiment of BBS features a port for Ethernet or LAN access which may provide access to Internet and devices connected thereto e.g. PC wireless PDA personal digital assistant server database etc. . BBS may also include digital cordless technology supporting analog PSTN calls from PSTN and devices connected thereto e.g telephone etc. .

In some embodiments BBS also includes video communications and may include an option for integrating a camera . BBS also includes a high resolution color liquid crystal display LCD with touch screen interface. BBS further includes an operating system such as for example WINDOWS WinCE.Net operating system with application programming interface networking protocols and codecs and multimedia engine for customized applications and services.

Generally in terms of hardware architecture as shown in BBS includes a processor memory and one or more input and or output I O devices that are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software particularly that stored in memory . The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the BBS a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory includes a service agent call log contact list address book rules email application camera application portal browser application instant messaging IM client calendar telephone API and operating system o s e.g. WinCE.Net . The operating system controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

The I O devices may include input devices for example but not limited to a keypad touchscreen microphone etc. Furthermore the I O devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a display speaker etc. Finally the I O devices may further include devices that communicate both inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc.

When the BBS is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the BBS pursuant to the software.

As mentioned above some of the services and application provided by some embodiments of BBS include a calendar address book etc. a portal browser application providing news weather traffic sports maps stocks etc. email client instant messaging client etc.

In addition in accordance with the present disclosure in one embodiment a service agent resides in memory of BBS and may be configured to alert a user of incoming analog telephone calls using the instant messaging application or other functions.

For one embodiment the service agent communicates with a telephone API application programming interface for the BBS . Therefore the service agent can detect when an incoming telephone call is being received by the BBS . The service agent as a result sends an instant message to a user notifying the user of the incoming call. Identification of the calling party may be determined from caller ID information received by the BBS . The service agent may be configured to send notifications to an instant messaging address provided by the user. Therefore an instant message sent by the BBS to such an instant messaging address is delivered in accordance with preference and rules established by the provider of the instant messaging address and the instant messaging application .

Generally the BBS sends an instant message to the user at an instant messaging address where the user is determined to be online. If the user is not currently online then the message may be queued and stored and then forwarded when the user is detected to be online. It is noted that the instant messaging application on the BBS may be used to locate a user and also be used as a notification mechanism through the BBS .

Since the BBS has its own instant messaging client the BBS could be set up as the lowest priority IM client since the BBS is always on or connected to the Internet. For example some instant messaging systems allow multiple simultaneous sessions involving multiple clients. For example JABBER allows multiple simultaneous client logins of the same instant messaging address JABBER ID and JABBER directs instant messages to the client having the highest priority for that address. Therefore the BBS could be set up as having the lowest priority IM client.

Further the service agent may be set up to have its own instant messaging identity. This identity may be listed as a contact on the user s contact list for instant messaging.

In addition the user could send BBS commands and instructions using the service agent s instant messaging identity. For example the user from his or her work client could communicate with the BBS using the BBS s instant messaging identity for the service agent. For example the user may request the service agent on the BBS to send a call log back to the user at his work client . The call log may identify and describe incoming calls to the BBS or even outgoing calls made from the BBS .

Consider the following scenario. A user is expecting a call to his home telephone number where the BBS is located. The call that the user is expecting is from a pest control person so that an appointment may be scheduled for pest inspection to be performed at the home. So when the call is actually made the service agent of the BBS detects the call and obtains caller ID information. The service agent then sends an instant message containing the name of who is making the call and the telephone number where the call is being made. The instant message is sent to the user at an instant messaging address designated within a set of rules defined by the user. In one embodiment this all may be done while the BBS is ringing to announce the incoming call at the home.

In one embodiment the instant message may ask the user to specify instructions for handling the call that is being received by the BBS . So not only does the BBS notify the user of the incoming call with information on who is making the call and a number where the party may be reached the BBS also provides options for handling the call remotely. For example the user could reply to the instant message with instructions to forward the call to another telephone number where the number is specified in the instant message itself instructions to send the call to voicemail instructions to let the incoming call be left alone or a reply could just not be sent etc. Via an instant messaging session remote control operation of the BBS may be implemented. For example BBS may receive a call over PSTN and in real time a user can receive notification and can start making decisions about what the user s prefers to do. The BBS has a full API to control all the telephone features of the phone that are accessible to the service agent .

In one embodiment a user can define rules that affect how BBS handles incoming telephone calls. For example a rule may be specified that if a call is received from someone in a user s address book that is stored on BBS a notification message may be sent to the user. Otherwise a message is not sent. Further different rules may be enacted based upon time of day day of the week etc. Also rules may be based on who the calling party is. Therefore when BBS receives a call the particulars and characteristics of the call can determine which specific action is taken e.g. direct call to voicemail hang up on call forward call to another number etc. .

In accordance with one or more embodiments rules do not have to be stored locally on the BBS device. For example calls may be stored remotely in an Internet database and accessed by the BBS over the Internet . In this way a user from a remote location can access the rules and configure and modify them if need be from another client device etc.

In communicating with the service agent from a remote client a user could be provided a menu of options for configuring the BBS or instructing the BBS to perform requested actions. As previously suggested a contact for the service agent may be added to the user s contact list so that a user can communicate with the service agent from a remote location. In communicating with the service agent the service agent may send a menu of options for different actions that can be selected by the user. To select one of the options the user can identify one of the options in a reply message back to the service agent. For example one option may be to transfer a call log identifying and describing incoming calls to the BBS or even outgoing calls made from the BBS .

In one embodiment a call log may be stored remotely from the BBS on the Internet . For example in one embodiment the call log may be accessible from a portal site of a user s Internet provider via database . Therefore the BBS may also access the user s call log and populate the call log with desired information. Accordingly a user could access the call log from any Web based client that has access to the Internet in some embodiments.

Further in one embodiment multiple BBS at different locations could be used to populate a singular call log. Therefore if a user has a BBS at home and a BBS at work or a second home each BBS unit could populate one call log. Within the call log information such as identification of the caller time of day when the call was made identification of the calling phone number and disposition of the call e.g. caller left a voice message caller was forwarded to number 555 6666 etc. may be included. Also in some embodiments individual call logs for individual BBS devices may be maintained.

Embodiments of the present disclosure enable a user to interact with a remote phone such as a home phone in real time. Unlike previous versions of Internet Call Waiting systems that required users to have a dedicated Internet Call Waiting client on a user s desktop one embodiment of the present disclosure interacts with a remote phone system by utilizing a contact on an instant messaging contact list . This is much less invasive and is more compatible with existing software systems of pre existing computer client devices. As such according to exemplary embodiments custom clients on the remote computer or special types of connections are not required. The BBS may provide the ability to communicate via instant messaging technology from a home telephone device and combine instant messaging capabilities with a full featured Internet capable telephone is seemingly novel. This gives a user remote access to a home appliance.

With previous versions of Internet Call Waiting the PSTN telephone network also typically had a switch having to be provisioned to do certain functions such as detecting that the called party was a subscriber to Internet Call Waiting service or detecting that the called party was connected to the Internet. By making the terminal device such as the BBS have access to rules for determining handling and routing of the call with the intelligence to implement the rules the notification services provided by the BBS work with any telephone network switch without any special customizations with regard to the switch.

In some embodiments the BBS is a dual mode device that can make and receive VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol telephone calls in addition to PSTN calls. This allows even more flexibility with regard to the service capable of being performed by the BBS . With an IP Internet Protocol switch more sophisticated call forwarding can be implemented. In the same way that PSTN calls can be rerouted by the BBS VoIP calls may also be rerouted.

Another service capable of being performed by embodiments of the communication system of the present disclosure is parental control services. For example rules may be set up restricting access to certain operations or functions to be performed on the BBS . Further restrictions can be specified for particular users such as children that reside in a household. For example assume that Jane is a child that lives in a household using the BBS . Jane s parents have implemented rules that restrict Jane s use of the BBS . One of these rules specifies which telephone numbers Jane is allowed to call. Other rules may specify the time of the day that Jane is allowed to make telephone calls maximum duration that Jane is allowed to be engaged on the BBS etc. Accordingly for a user to make an outgoing call the BBS may have a log in prompt that requests the user to identify himself or herself such as with a personal identification number associated with the user. After a user has authenticated himself or herself the BBS enforces whatever rules have been created for the user.

Further in some embodiments BBS may be configured to send notifications on whatever uses are being made on the telephone BBS by Jane. Further if Jane attempts a prohibited activity a parent may be contacted via a notification message and be prompted to authorize or prohibit the requested activity and pre existing rule. These decisions can be made in real time.

Therefore BBS can have rules stored locally or accessible from an Internet database that include authorized logins passwords rules on who is allowed to use the phone how long they can use it etc. Further the phone can log how much a user has used the phone if he or she has made a phone call to whom it was made etc. Via instant messaging the phone could alert a parent or other user as to who the monitored user is attempting to call and ask if it is okay for them to make the call. The monitored user could even get permission to make long distance call or 900 call or talk to their friend in some embodiments.

Generally a user can be notified in real time of activities for which the BBS is being used. The BBS can log and notify the user of these activities being performed on the BBS . One such use for such notification services is to provide parental controls on use of the BBS which may be utilized by multiple users as opposed to cellular handsets which are primarily utilized by singular individuals .

The BBS may also feature a camera in some embodiments. Accordingly the BBS may be configured to capture video images that are sent to a user using instant messaging technology or video chat technology. For example the BBS could be interfaced with a home automation system such that when someone approached a front door of a house where the BBS resides an image could be captured and sent to a user at a remote location to notify the user and allow for the user to view the image of the person. In addition if a temperature sensor for the house rises above a set threshold value a notification may be sent to the user to alert the user that the house may be on fire. In accordance with the present disclosure other embodiments may utilize other home automation sensors.

Further in embodiments where the BBS has a camera integrated into the BBS images captured by the camera may be monitored by the service agent and motion in a region of interest in the images may be detected. If this occurs then a video feed may be pushed automatically to a user or in response to instructions from the user which may be in response to a notification received by the user from the service agent . In one embodiment the BBS may be able to store an amount of video data locally or store a larger amount on an external device or an Internet database . Further in some embodiments a log may be maintained by the BBS of different video events that are captured. Such a log may also be transferred remotely to a user from the BBS in accordance with the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the communication system are not limited to the examples contained herein. It is intended that the teachings of the present disclosure may be extended. For example notification services of the communication system are not limited to delivery of notifications using only instant messaging technology nor is detection services limited to detecting incoming telephone calls. For example some embodiments of the communication system provide that the BBS detects an incoming instant message for a user and notifies the user by placing a telephone call to the user and playing a prepared audio message alerting the user of the received instant message. Also the BBS may send a notification message upon receipt of a message waiting indicator MWI from a voicemail system.

Regarding the service agent in some embodiments the service agent is an interactive instant messaging user agent represented by a software application. The service agent receives messages passed from the instant messaging client on the BBS parses such messages and provides instructions to perform requested services actions such as instructions for handling a call requesting transmission of a call log authorizing use of the BBS etc.

Following is an example conversation between an end user and a service agent according to one embodiment. The end user initiates addressing a message to the service agent using whatever means provided by the instant messaging system. Such means may comprise for example choosing the service agent from a buddy list or addressing an email to a specific address. The message contains instructions to the service agent to send a call log to the user.

In the case of a two way messaging system the service agent may respond to the end user with information confirmation or with a request for additional information. In the case where additional information is requested the end user returns to the first step and provides such information to the service agent . It should be appreciated that the dialog between the service agent and the end user may take a variety of forms comprising following a specific syntax e.g. 777 666 5555 forward call or being conversational in nature for example through the use of free flowing natural language processing. The dialog can also take the form of form filling.

It should be further appreciated that the service agent may proactively send messages to the end user for example a reminder for an event. However it should be noted that while the service agent is capable of proactively initiating communications to the end user such as alerting and notification for performing certain tasks the service agent is not limited to being merely reactive. The service agent is capable of accepting new data. For example the service agent has the capability of accepting new rules or new changes to pre existing rules.

Referring now to a flow chart describing one embodiment among others of a process among others performed by BBS is shown. In block of the flow chart a terminal device such as BBS receives an incoming call. The BBS obtains particulars of the incoming call such as Caller ID information time the call is received etc. and compares this information against a rule set for handling incoming calls. The terminal device then disposes of the incoming call in accordance with a rule from the rule set if the particulars of the call satisfy the rule set. For example if there is a rule for incoming calls that are received before 4 p.m. and an incoming call is received at 2 p.m. then that rule would be implemented and the associated action performed.

Referring now to a flow chart describing one embodiment among others of another process among others performed by BBS is shown. In block of the flow chart a terminal device such as BBS receives an instruction from a user via an instant message. In response the terminal device performs one or more actions in accordance with the received instruction. For example the instruction may specify that a call log should be transferred to the user a rule should be modified an incoming call should be disposed in a certain manner authorization should be granted for use of the terminal device etc. After performing the action confirmation is sent to the user via instant message that the instruction was received and requested action was performed in some embodiments.

Referring now to a diagram illustrating an exemplary interface to a chat client is shown. Consider that a user may have a chat session with a service agent via user s chat client on PC . Here the service agent has an identifier HomePhone and the user has an identifier or screen name Ted. The user Ted receives a message from the service agent to inform Ted that Tom s Pest Control is calling the user at the user s premises where the call is being received at BBS . The message provides options for handling the call. In particular if Ted replies with the message 2 the service agent responds by commanding the BBS to send the call to a voicemail service or if Ted replies with the message 3 the service agent lets the phone call ring without being answered. In the present example Ted chooses to reply with 1 which causes the service agent to respond by commanding the BBS to forward the call to Ted s office phone number which may be stored in an address book and labeled as Office Phone Number in one embodiment .

In the chat client of it is shown that the service agent s identity is listed as a contact in Ted s Contact List . Therefore Ted can initiate communications with the HomePhone identity by selecting one or more of the contacts as represented in from his contact list which will cause a chat window to open if one is not already opened in one embodiment. In after Ted has clicked on the contact identity of the service agent the service agent responds with options such as requesting a call log for BBS requesting a sensor reading such as the temperature of the house where the BBS resides as mentioned previously or ending the chat session with the contact identity. It is noted that a number of different options may be provided and that the options described herein are provided as illustrative examples and are not intended to be limiting.

Referring back to Ted responds by typing 1 in the input window and selects the send button . As a result in the illustrative example of contents of a call log are sent in response to his reply and are displayed as part of a chat session. The call log contents indicate that a call from Sue was received at 9 00 AM where Sue left a voicemail. At 11 12 AM the call log shows that a call was received from an unknown or unidentified party and the call was forwarded to voicemail but the party did not leave a voicemail message. At 2 12 PM the call log shows a call was received from Mother and the call was answered by Daughter. The call lasted 23 minutes. It is noted that the identity Mother or Sue may be identifiers set up by the user Ted in his address book for certain telephone numbers. Further Daughter may be an identity established on the BBS for a user having a particular PIN that is used as a login for the BBS such as the exemplary illustration of which shows a log in interface to BBS .

Referring back to the call log contents further indicate that an outgoing call was placed on the BBS from Daughter to Ted and this call lasted 20 seconds. In an alternative embodiment a hyperlink to the call log may be included in a chat message from the HomePhone identity of the service agent . For example shows a chat client interface displaying a message with a hyperlink to access a call log. In one embodiment by clicking on the hyperlink with a mouse control a web browser client is activated as shown in .

In the present example call log contents are displayed as a web page . The call log contents include date information timing information for receipt of calls the telephone numbers of the call that was received a status of disposition for the calls and to what phone numbers calls were made . For example in one embodiment a user may have more than one BBS that feeds a call log database e.g. database stored in a network location.

Therefore a single call log may compile information from multiple BBS devices . Also in some embodiments additional information may be included as call log contents include outgoing call information. Therefore the present example is not intended to be limiting.

In one embodiment a user can define rules that affect how BBS handles incoming and outgoing telephone calls or other services provided by the BBS . illustrates an exemplary interface to BBS that allows formation of rules via the BBS device .

In the present example of the user creates rules for Becky which is assumed to be another user of the BBS . Here the user operating the BBS can specify a time range in which Becky is not authorized to make calls using BBS . To specify the time range the user can input a starting time and an ending time for the time range. Further in the present example the user can specify a maximum length in minutes of a duration of a call for Becky. Also it is specified if Becky is allowed to make long distance calls or not. A wide variety of rules may be configured in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The examples described above are meant to be illustrative and not intended to be limiting. Additional rules are contemplated in additional embodiments.

In addition to configuring rules via a BBS interface one embodiment provides for a web based interface for configuring rules as shown in . Accordingly a user may access a web page via a browser interface and configure rules determining how BBS handles incoming and outgoing calls or other services provided by the BBS . The rules may be stored in a network database e.g. database that is accessed and implemented by BBS in one embodiment.

In addition to rules being configured for particular users general rules may also be configured that are applied as general rules to the BBS for all users. For example in the exemplary interface of a rules wizard is provided for defining rules. In particular the present example shows rules being created and stating that all calls received by the BBS from 9 AM to 6 PM are automatically to be forwarded to the phone number 666 555 1111 if the call is received on a Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday or Friday as indicated by the stipulations provided by a user. Further a set of rules may state that incoming calls are automatically sent to voicemail for the time period corresponding to 11 PM to 6 AM on Sunday Monday Tuesday and Thursday. As noted previously a wide variety of rules may be configured in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The examples described above are meant to be illustrative and not intended to be limiting. Additional rules are contemplated in one embodiment.

If a user such as Becky in the previous illustrations attempts to access a service or function of the BBS that has a rule disallowing such service function the BBS will prohibit the service function from being performed in one embodiment. For example in the exemplary illustration of the BBS may display a message informing Becky that she is not authorized to make a call to the telephone number 777 555 8888. In response the BBS may be configured to send an instant message or other type of message to Ted who has the authority to grant Becky access to prohibited services or functions. In the example of Ted is sent a chat message to a chat client of Ted s. To do so a user may configure settings in the BBS indicating that messages asking for permission to perform prohibited activities be sent to a particular messaging address such as Ted s chat address in the present embodiment.

The message indicates that Becky is attempting a long distance call to phone number 777 555 8888 which is identified as belonging to Granny which may be an identifier associated with the number in address book in one embodiment. Also Ted is provided options in the message for authorizing the call or disallowing the call in one embodiment.

Rules may also be specified in some embodiments for providing notification messages of user operations on the BBS . For example shows a sample chat message informing a user Ted that another user Becky is utilizing the BBS to make a telephone call to telephone number 444 555 333 which is associated with Michael. In this way Ted can monitor Becky s use of the BBS remotely via chat messages or other messages sent by the BBS . Further in alternative embodiments email messages or even voice messages may be sent by BBS to notify a user of uses being made of the BBS .

Also the BBS can notify a user of received messages. For example in one embodiment the BBS provides an IM client . The IM client may receive an instant message as shown in . In the present example a user Sue has sent the message Ted are you here . Ted may in fact not be available to respond to the message via the BBS . However in one embodiment the BBS may be configured to notify a user e.g. Ted that he or she has received a message at the BBS .

For example Ted may be at his office where another BBS device resides. Therefore the BBS at his home may send a notification message to a network address designated by the user corresponding to the BBS at his office. Accordingly in the example of an instant message is sent to Ted s other BBS device notifying him that a message from Sue has been received.

However in the example of an audio or voice message is sent to Ted s other BBS device or a general telephone device to play a voice message from BBS at his home notifying Ted that an instant message from Sue has been received. It is noted that in the present example the BBS identifies itself as a HomePhone Chat Service in the voice message and as HomePhone in the instant message.

In addition to notifying users of received messages an embodiment of BBS can also provide notification or update messages containing captured images. For example a camera e.g. digital camera may be integrated into the BBS via a network where the camera may be located at an entrance to a user premises such as a door for example. The BBS may have a camera application that can grab an image frame from the camera at a preset interval e.g. every 30 seconds or upon occurrence of an event e.g. motion detection . The camera application may then transfer the image to another location for viewing. For example the camera application may convert the image into a JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group image file and upload the image to a web server using file transfer protocol FTP .

Camera may be connected to network using wired or wireless connections. BBS is also a wireless DSL router in one embodiment to facilitate wireless communications.

Further in one embodiment a user may communicate with camera application remotely using instant messaging or other messaging techniques. For example a user may remotely provide commands for adjusting pan tilt positions of a camera lens and program frame capture settings based on the position of the camera in one embodiment. Also camera may be programmed to take a new picture when it detects motion across a camera lens.

In one embodiment the camera may be configured to capture images whenever it detects a person approaching the door where camera lens is positioned or directed . In response the BBS may receive the images or be notified of the images so that the BBS can make the image available to a user at a remote location. In the example of a chat message is sent to a chat client of the user in a remote location. The chat message includes a hyperlink to the captured image that is stored at a network location. Also in some embodiments the camera may capture video where the BBS makes the video accessible to a remote user as shown in .

Other devices may cause notification messages to be sent in some embodiments. For example in a remote user of the BBS receives a chat message from the BBS informing the user the current temperature of a house via a temperature sensor reading where the BBS resides and provides options for turning on off an air conditioner to the house or turning on off a heater to the house. It is noted that a control unit to a home automation system may be integrated with the BBS via network in one embodiment. Accordingly the home automation system may be provided its own contact identity e.g. HomeSensor and may have a service agent installed on the BBS that acts on its behalf Therefore a user can communicate remotely with the home automation system via the contact identity and issue commands such as a command to turn off a heater as illustrated in . In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure a variety of devices may be configured to communicate via the BBS . The examples described above are meant to be illustrative and not intended to be limiting.

Embodiments of the BBS utilize the many features of home networks and broadband Internet capabilities and further provides communication and information functions and services in a novel and unique approach.

Referring now to a flow chart describing one embodiment of a method of call notification is depicted. The method includes receiving an incoming call on a telephone device and before answering the call via the telephone device sending a notification message to a remote user via the telephone device over an Internet channel wherein the notification message includes call information the call information including identification of a calling party. In one embodiment the notification message is an instant message among others. Further the call information comprises a time when the call was received by the telephone device in one embodiment. The notification message also may indicate options for handling the call. As such the method further includes receiving a reply message from the remote user and handling the call in accordance with instructions provided in the reply message.

The flow chart of depicts one embodiment of a method for maintaining a call log. As such the method includes receiving an incoming call on a telephone device and obtaining call information about the incoming call via the telephone device. The method further includes updating a call log with the call information via the telephone device and enabling the call log to be accessed from a remote Internet location. In one embodiment the telephone device receives calls from a PSTN network. Further in the same embodiment or another embodiment the telephone device may be configured to receive calls from the Internet. Also the electronic message may be sent to a remote user with the call log as an attachment to the electronic message in one embodiment. Alternatively an electronic message is sent to a remote user with a hyperlink for accessing a web page displaying contents from the call log in one embodiment.

Referring now to a flow chart illustrating one embodiment of a method of establishing communications with a telephone device is shown. The method includes receiving an incoming call on the telephone device and checking a set of rules defined by a user of the telephone device the rules specifying instructions for handling an incoming call. The method further includes disposing of the incoming call in accordance with the set of rules. In one embodiment the set of rules includes a rule instructing the telephone device to forward the incoming call to the user if a telephone number of a calling party is contained in an address book of the user. Further in one embodiment the set of rules includes a rule instructing the telephone device to perform a particular action if the incoming call to the user is received within a designated time frame. The particular action may also involve sending a notification message to the user at a remote location notifying the user of the incoming call in one embodiment.

The flow chart of describes one embodiment of a method of notification. The method includes capturing an image in response to an event and relaying the capturing of the image to a telephone device. The method further includes sending a message to a user at a remote location via the telephone device the message notifying the user of the capturing of the image. In one embodiment the message includes a hyperlink to the captured image. Further in one embodiment the event comprises conversing on a handset of the telephone device and the user is a calling party e.g. an image being sent of one party conversing on a telephone to another party conversing on a telephone . Alternatively in one embodiment the event comprises detection of motion by a camera that captured the image. The message notifying the user may comprise a voice message made from the telephone device over a PSTN network or a voice message made from the telephone device over the Internet in one or more embodiments.

Referring now to a flow chart illustrating a method of supervision and notification is shown. The method includes monitoring activities performed by a telephone device and authenticating a person before allowing the person to make use of the telephone device. The method further includes notifying a user of the activities performed by the telephone and identification of users performing the activities notification of activities being made by the telephone device. In one embodiment notification of a user involves sending an electronic message to the user via the telephone device. Alternatively notification may involve making a phone call to the user via the telephone device. Also various embodiments may also maintain a set of rules on which users of the telephone device are allowed to perform certain activities on the telephone device and or send a message to the user to allow a prohibited activity when a current user of the telephone device is requesting to perform an activity that is not allowed by the set of rules maintained on the telephone device. The message may also be an instant message having options for either authorizing the prohibited activity or not authorizing the prohibited activity where the activity is an outgoing call and the notification message is sent before the outgoing call is connected in one or more embodiments.

Aspects of embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. If implemented in software or firmware components may be stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware components can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

Software components may comprise an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical .

Any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present disclosure in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present disclosure.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include but do not require certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

