---

title: Lightweight steering column of fibre composite material
abstract: The invention relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle comprising a steering spindle, which is mounted rotatably about its axis in a steering spindle bearing unit, a holding part, which is designed to connect the steering spindle bearing unit directly or indirectly to the body of the motor vehicle, wherein at least one of the components of the steering column is at least partially formed from a material that contains reinforcing fibers, wherein the reinforcing fibers are arranged along paths on a wall surface and, by means of multiple holding fibers, which run at an angle that is greater than 0° in relation to the paths of the reinforcing fibers and enclose the reinforcing fibers, are fixed on the wall surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09150237&OS=09150237&RS=09150237
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AG
number: 09150237
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Serial Number PCT EP2013 000776 filed Mar. 14 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. 102012007005.5 filed Apr. 10 2012.

The invention relates to a steering column assembly for a vehicle and to a method for producing components for such a steering column assembly.

In particular the invention relates to a steering column assembly which is adjustable in its length and or inclination.

In cases in which they are used steering column assemblies or steering columns of the generic type are fitted in a motor vehicle and transfer the torques applied to a steering wheel by the driver into a steering system of the vehicle. Furthermore in cases in which they are used steering columns have to withstand various loads in particular in the event of a collision of the vehicle with an obstacle the crash case.

DE 10 2005 034 952 B3 discloses for example a steering column which is adjustable in its height and its inclination. A steering spindle is rotatably mounted in an adjusting part which is also referred to as the casing unit. The casing unit is held in a holding part and the holding part is mounted in a holding clip which can be fastened to a vehicle body. For adapting the position of the steering spindle or a steering wheel to be fastened thereto a clamping system is provided adjustable by an adjusting lever between an open position and a closed position. In the open position of the clamping system the casing unit can be displaced in its longitudinal direction with respect to the holding part and at the same time the holding part can be swiveled in its direction of inclination with respect to the holding clip about a swivel axis. In the closed position of the clamping system the steering spindle is fixed with respect to the holding clip fixed to the body. Such steering columns and clamping systems are known in various embodiments in the prior art.

In a way corresponding to the prior art the components of such steering columns are made of cast steel aluminium or magnesium.

There is a general desire for such steering columns to be of a particularly lightweight form. For this purpose DE 101 55 891 B4 proposes generally making the casing unit the central bearing tube from a thermoplastic or a thermoplastic tube with a glass fibre or carbon fibre filling. However how specifically such a bearing tube may be formed is left open by the disclosure.

EP 0 091 671 B1 discloses a safety steering column in which a tube part of the steering spindle is formed in one piece with a rigid steering column portion of fibre reinforced plastic. It is disclosed there that the steering column is produced by a technique of winding around a core for example of rigid polyurethane foam. In this case however the possibilities for the design of the steering column are greatly restricted.

The published patent application DE 102 42 527 A1 discloses a steering column protective housing consisting of a polymer composite material. The steering tube and the mounting brackets are formed by unidirectional strands of fibres that are arranged within a composite material. Mounting brackets may be formed by injection moulding with the use of short fibres while the steering tube is formed in a compression moulding process which includes the use of longer or continuous or oriented fibres. The fibres are usually arranged lying alongside one another and perpendicular to one another or alongside one another and parallel to one another within an adjacent layer of fibres.

DE 198 09 264 A1 discloses a fibrous nonwoven arrangement and a method for producing a preform. In this method nonwoven layers consisting of unidirectional continuous fibres arranged alongside one another are laid on two dimensional hotmelt adhesive formations and sewn together with them. Subsequently to produce the blank for a fibre composite material component the fibrous nonwoven arrangement is heated compression moulded cooled and demoulded. The preforms produced are then placed into a component thermoforming mould that is not described here where for example a synthetic resin matrix is fed in and the curing of the composite takes place to form the finished fibre composite material component. The stress profiles in the components can be determined by analytical and numerical methods of calculation. The reinforcing element structure takes these calculations into account in that the reinforcing fibres are arranged parallel to the stress profiles and the thickness of the component is adapted to the loads. It is precisely at this point that the previously mentioned conventional semifinished fibrous products reach their limits. The reinforcing fibres must lie absolutely parallel to the direction of loading since only in this way can the full potential of their capability be exploited. Reinforcing fibres should be neither twisted nor undulating in the component since weak points are thereby implicated. To be able to meet these requirements for the reinforcing element methods that ensure a defined position of the reinforcing fibres are needed.

The problem addressed by the invention is that of providing a lightweight steering column with which there is a high degree of freedom of design.

The problem is solved by a steering column corresponding to patent claim . Advantageous developments of the invention are presented in the subclaims.

In a preferred way the reinforcing fibres are formed from carbon fibres or as aramid fibres or as glass fibres or a mixture of these fibres. In this case preferably multiple fibres which may also be referred to as filaments are grouped into rovings and processed together. For the purposes of the invention the terms filament and fibre are used synonymously. A roving is a grouping of filaments which however have not been connected to one another to form a yarn for example by spinning. Correspondingly as a difference from rovings in the case of yarns the fibres are connected to one another. A thread is understood as meaning a yarn with a limited length.

To increase the strength of the component of the steering column it should be endeavoured to orient the reinforcing fibres as straight as possible in particular to deflect them as little as possible in arcs. Arcs with very small radii for example in the range of below 1 mm should as far as possible be avoided completely. At least such arcs should be avoided along the main directions of force that occur in the component during the use of the component.

The holding fibres may be formed by threads which are made from polyester or else other materials. In this case yarns such as are known in the textiles industry may also be used as holding fibres. The holding fibres enclose the reinforcing fibres in order to fix the reinforcing fibres in a spatial position in relation to one another. With preference the fixing takes place by upper holding fibres which are linked or connected to lower holding fibres and in this way enclose the reinforcing fibres.

The backing which may also be referred to as an embroidery base consists of backing fibres that are connected to one another in a weaving process. Instead of a weaving process some other process for connecting fibres preferably without additional materials may also be used as represented for example by braiding or knitting. All of these processes are subsumed within this disclosure by the term weaving process. The backing fibres may also be formed from polyester or else other materials. In this case yarns such as are known in the textiles industry may also be used for forming the backing fibres. The use of additional materials such as for example synthetic resins for connecting the backing fibres to form the backing is indeed possible but has disadvantages.

It is also conceivable and possible to connect oriented backing fibres which are not connected to one another by yarns that serve as connecting fibres and to form the backing in this way. This application case should be preferred whenever the backing fibres are to absorb additional forces. In this case the backing fibres should be contained in the backing with fewest possible deviations from a straight or spline shaped extent with radii of more than 2 mm and in particular fewest possible deflections. For fixing the connecting fibres are then provided oriented such that the backing fibres only have small deviations from a straight course or alternatively have a course that is spline shaped and the radii of which are greater than 2 mm.

In one embodiment of the invention backing fibres and or the connecting fibres of the backing form holding fibres. With the use of separate upper holding fibres the enclosing of the reinforcing fibres with the holding fibres can be brought about. Also when a backing is used separate lower holding fibres may also be additionally provided connected to separate upper holding fibres to form the enclosure. Parts of the weave of the backing are in this case enclosed by the holding fibres that enclose the reinforcing fibres.

If the backing is not designed for absorbing additional forces or if the forces to be absorbed in the case of use of the steering column exceed corresponding values at least one nonwoven scrim may be provided comprising parallel oriented nonwoven fibres which are connected to one another and can absorb additional forces in the case of use of the steering column. For forming the component of the steering column preferably the reinforcing fibres running in paths are arranged on the surface of the at least one nonwoven scrim. In this case it is also advantageous to provide at least two nonwoven scrims between which the reinforcing fibres running in paths are arranged.

In the case of the nonwoven scrims being used the nonwoven fibres are oriented as parallel as possible and connected to one another by connecting fibres. The nonwoven fibres assume the function of absorbing forces in the finished component. The connecting fibres only assume the function of stabilizing the nonwoven scrim for further processing. As an alternative to nonwoven scrims woven fabrics in which the woven fibres are connected to one another by classic weaving technology may also be used. The more frequent deflections of all the fibres in the woven fabric in comparison with the nonwoven scrim means that when woven fabrics are used only lower forces can be transferred or absorbed. Both nonwoven fibres and woven fibres preferably consist of carbon aramid or glass. The choice whether a nonwoven scrim or a woven fabric is to be used is determined by the forces to be absorbed in the case of use of the steering column.

To increase the stiffness in the finished component in the case where at least two nonwoven scrims are used the directions of the nonwoven fibres respectively oriented parallel to one another in a scrim vary from scrim to scrim. Advantageously the angle that the nonwoven fibres assume in relation to one another is preferably in a range from at least 10 to at most 80 . Further preferred are angles in the range from 20 to 50 . In this case the angles of the fibres of two directly neighbouring nonwoven scrims in relation to one another should be less than 60 .

In a further step the structural unit may be impregnated with a curable resin and after curing forms the component of the steering column that contains the reinforcing fibres.

The problem addressed by the invention is solved by a method for producing a steering column corresponding to patent claim . In patent claim an advantageous development of the invention is presented. Further advantageous developments are presented in the subclaims. The steering column according to the invention comprises 

The topology of the formed fibre composite component which consists of the reinforcing fibres the backing and the at least one nonwoven scrim and the cured resin can be easily adapted by the method to the desired design and or the requirements for the steering column in the case in which it is used while results from model calculations can be effectively implemented in a reinforcing fibre structure. Work is preferably performed with an automatic embroidering machine which scans the course of the fibres and in a way corresponding to the software model sews reinforcing fibres onto a backing material in accordance with the optimum embroidery pattern.

The method is outstandingly suitable for more complex reinforcing element structures with specific local reinforcements as are desired in steering columns

In particular apart from the reinforcements by the reinforcing fibres reinforcements may also be represented by geometrical structures such as for example beads or grooves in the topology. In this way an optimum combination of the properties of the reinforcing fibres with the properties of the backing and the at least one nonwoven scrim and the cured resin is achieved.

To shorten the process chain it is advantageous for forming the fibre composite component to position one or more functional elements at predefined locations in a method step before the filling of the reinforcing package with a curable resin in order for these functional elements to be connected to the reinforcing fibres by the then following method steps in order to form a one piece component with the fibre composite component. Metal inlays which support the swivel axis or have possibly necessary toothings for the fixing device may be used here for example.

It is also conceivable and possible to connect one or more functional elements at predefined locations to the backing and only after that to fasten the reinforcing fibres to the backing. A combination with functional elements that are incorporated after the connection of the reinforcing fibres to the backing in the way described above is also conceivable and possible.

Elements that are intended for supporting functions such as metal inlays with bores for screwing to further components or elements with sliding guides or elements with toothings or other form fitting elements may be used as functional elements. Functional elements for passing on electric current sensor recording of physical variables piezoactuators for active acoustic functions on the steering column as well as other functions are also conceivable and possible.

Advantageously the fibre composite component already has the finished shape of the component that is to be fitted into the steering column after removal from the mould in which the forming of the topology and the encapsulation has taken place. For this purpose the reinforcing package is advantageously trimmed at its periphery with a prescribed circumferential contour before it is introduced into the mould. It is also conceivable and possible to provide the trimming during the introduction of the reinforcing package into the mould. Depending on the application case it may be advantageous to integrate in the mould cutting tools that allow corresponding contour trimming in the mould. In particular it is also possible before or during the introduction of the reinforcing package into the mould for the reinforcing package to be provided with clearances that are required for functions of the finished fibre composite component.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are further illustrated below with reference to the drawing figures.

The clamping bolt passes through slots in the side plates of the holding part and holes in the side faces of the swivel lever . The cam mechanism is arranged on the one end of the clamping bolt and the thrust bearing is arranged on the other end of the clamping bolt. The side plates as well as the side faces and the casing unit are arranged between the cam mechanism and the thrust bearing .

By turning the adjusting lever the fixing system can be optionally changed over into an open position or a closed position. In the open position the steering spindle or the steering wheel fastened thereto not represented in the figures can be adjusted in its position in particular displaced in the longitudinal direction and the direction of height or inclination .

In the closed position of the fixing system the steering column is fixed in its position. Such steering columns are known in the prior art.

In the example of the holding part is used to illustrate the provision of the holding part with reinforcing fibres. shows the holding part in its form ready for fitting. In this respect firstly an intermediate component is provided. The intermediate component is connected to a further intermediate component in separate method steps to form the holding part .

Firstly a backing consisting of backing fibres is formed. In the example the backing fibres are connected to one another by a weaving process cf. . As illustrated in and reinforcing fibres which are bundled into rovings are applied to this backing and are connected to the backing by an upper holding thread and a lower holding thread . A classic sewing technology serves here as the connecting process. With this technique it is possible to lay reinforcing fibres along stress profiles of a component. Optimally used this technique can contribute to significant material savings on account of the optimized fibre structure. In this case the individual reinforcing fibres are not only applied stretched out in the plane but also on any desired paths so that a desired complex fibre arrangement is achieved. This technology is often also referred to as embroidering technology.

For purposes of illustration in the corresponding rovings backing threads and holding threads are shown as pulled wide apart. However it is envisaged to press the threads firmly on to one another with a certain pretension. This takes place by a pretensioning of the holding threads during the sewing process. In this way the backing on which the reinforcing fibres are arranged is already given a certain strength. In the application of this technological process to the steering column according to the invention is illustrated. In the bundling of the reinforcing fibres to form the rovings is illustrated in the enlarged detail x from . In an alternative fastening technique is represented one in which each individual roving is fastened to the backing by holding threads . Both embodiments as in or in may be used according to choice even if only one of the variants is shown in the representations that follow.

In it is illustrated how the rovings are fixed on the backing fibres by the holding threads . In this way the reinforcing fibres are fixed by means of holding fibres on a surface area that forms a future wall surface of the holding part . In

It is also conceivable and possible for forming the periphery of the later holding part to fix the outline by glueing by means of a bead of glue or welding for example by means of a laser beam and after that to carry out the separating operation along the separating line running slightly outside.

To increase the basic strength it may be envisaged to provide before the further processing additional nonwoven scrims consisting of nonwoven fibres cf. which are grouped with the reinforcing fibres to form a package . The nonwoven scrims have nonwoven fibres oriented parallel in each scrim which may be connected to one another in a suitable way. For this purpose scrim holding threads as illustrated in may be provided. It is also conceivable and possible to dispense with nonwoven holding fibres and in a way corresponding to the representation of provide further nonwoven fibres which are oriented at an angle to the first nonwoven fibres and fix the latter in the scrim by corresponding loopings. illustrates how multiple nonwoven scrims of which the nonwoven fibres are oriented in relation to one another at an angle greater than 0 are grouped to form a nonwoven package . This nonwoven package may be packaged with the backing in which the rovings with the reinforcing fibres are fastened to form the package as illustrated in . Advantageously the separation along the separating line only takes place after the forming of the package .

In the simplest case this separation takes place when the package is placed into the thermoforming and filling mould . The filling mould has at least two filling openings through which resin is injected and air can escape. At least one of the filling openings may also serve as an overflow opening for excess resin introduced. Furthermore the mould has a lower mould and an upper mould . The lower mould and the upper mould enclose a mould cavity which has the topology of the intermediate component . The mould periphery may be formed as a separating edge which brings about the trimming of the package along the separating line when the mould halves are closed. For forming the component the intermediate component the upper mould and the lower mould are moved together after the package has been placed into the mould cavity . In this case the trimming described above can take place along the mould periphery . Following that a synthetic resin is injected through at least one of the filling openings the mould cavity being evacuated of air as completely as possible. Following that the resin is cured.

For this the resin is mixed with a hardener. This curing can take place by introducing an increased temperature and or by introducing ultrasound and or by introducing ultraviolet light into the mould cavity. Corresponding heating elements and or sonotrodes and or ultraviolet light sources UV light sources may be provided for this. When forming the mould a corresponding permeability for heat and or ultrasound and or ultraviolet light must be ensured.

After completion of the crosslinking or the curing of the resin the mould is opened as illustrated in and the intermediate component is removed. As illustrated in the second intermediate component is also provided in the same way and connected by connecting elements to form the holding part .

Represented in the example corresponding to are latching elements and which as functional elements can be placed with the package into the mould cavity of the mould and be connected to the reinforcing fibres during the impregnation with the resin. This embodiment is illustrated in .

Correspondingly all scrims are advantageously arranged on the side of the backing where the rovings are arranged. Subsequently in a way corresponding to the entire package is placed into the mould with the lower mould and as described above encapsulated with resin. The mould cavity which is enclosed by the upper mould and the lower mould has a shape which seen in cross section is substantially U shaped. Here too it is conceivable and possible to carry out the trimming of the contour during the closing of the mould. The resin is introduced through the channels and the air is let out through one of the channels . After the curing the component is demoulded and possibly also subjected to further finishing steps. In the example no finishing steps are required and so the swivel lever is formed directly. The appropriate choice of the functional elements has at least allowed the required degree of finishing to be reduced if not rendered completely superfluous. In the rovings are illustrated in a schematized form even though depending on the application case they are not visible on the surface of the finished component since they are for example covered by the nonwoven package or an opaque resin.

For the forming of the steering column the individual components of which at least one component contains reinforcing fibres are assembled.

