---

title: Seasonal portfolio construction platform apparatuses, methods and systems
abstract: The SEASONAL PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION PLATFORM APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS (“SPC”) transform user data request via SPC components into seasonal portfolio investment transaction records. In one implementation, the SPC may provide an investment analytics and management tool facilitating a user (e.g., investors, consumers, portfolio managers, traders, etc.) to research, build and maintain an investment strategy for a customized portfolio based on a current economic cycle phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768815&OS=08768815&RS=08768815
owner: FMR, LLC
number: 08768815
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application for letters patent discloses and describes various novel innovations and inventive aspects of SEASONAL PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION PLATFORM technology hereinafter SPC and contains material that is subject to copyright mask work and or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the disclosure by anyone as it appears in published Patent Office file records but otherwise reserve all rights.

The present innovations generally address apparatuses methods and systems for investment portfolio management and more particularly include SEASONAL PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION PLATFORM APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS SPC .

Consumers invest in financial instruments to pursue an economic profit. Consumers buy publicly traded financial instruments from a public trading exchange platform i.e. an outcry bidding system . Common publicly traded financial instruments are stocks bonds future contracts and options. Consumers can buy or sell one or more types of financial instruments to form an investment portfolio. In order to manage the performance of the investment portfolio consumers need to closely track the pricing index of each financial instrument in the portfolio on a daily basis.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

The SEASONAL PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION PLATFORM technology hereinafter SPC provides an investment analytics and management tool facilitating a user e.g. investors consumers portfolio managers traders etc. to research build and maintain an investment strategy for a customized portfolio based on a current economic cycle phase.

For example in one implementation if the investor determines they are at a recession phase of the business cycle the investor may adjust the portfolio to reduce investment on sectors that are most impacted by the recess e.g. real estate luxury goods etc. In one implementation the investor may increase the weights of investment in some asset class e.g. the consumer staples sector etc. which may be less impacted by the economic recession

As another example the investor may choose to adjust the portfolio at the early phase of the business and or economy e.g. selecting sectors that have historically performed well in the early phase. As another example at the mid cycle of the business when economic growth rate is at its peak the investor may increase weights on some asset classes e.g. equity IT stocks etc. e.g. . As another example at the late cycle of the business when the economy slows down and approaches recession the investor may need to be careful about investing in high risk sectors as the economic growth may slow down during this stage.

In one implementation aggregate business cycle fluctuations may reflect many aspects of the macroeconomy including production prices employment investment and consumption and or the like. Asset returns may consequently have a strong cyclical component with earnings the interest rates and inflation determined by developments in the economy. Based on the macroeconomic indicators the SPC may identify retrospectively phases of the business cycle as recess early mid and late using a set of censoring rules on a plurality of indicators of the cycle such as but not limited to corporate profits credit employment inventories and monetary policy. The phases may be chronological and each phase may be dated when half or more of the indicators if data are available signal a positive for that phase e.g. see in .

As shown by the chart the SPC may evaluate economic indicators to delineate the phase of the cycle. In one implementation the early phase of the recovery occurs when policy stimulus begins to take effect and pent up demand boils over. Exemplary economic indicators in the early phase may include real activity picks up low interest rates encourage borrowing sales unexpectedly increase but companies hold off re stocking until they see sustained strength and businesses may see rapid margin expansions and soaring profits as they have trimmed all the fat from their operations during the recession.

With the recovery gaining traction at the mid cycle where confidence in the strength of the recovery builds economic indicators may include both credit and profit growth is strong employment gains are steady growth peaks and policy moves to a neutral stance.

In one implementation the expansion may continue for a while as the economy spends most of its time in expansion but eventually it begins to brush up against capacity constraints and policy tightens in response to building inflationary pressures. The business cycle may arrive at the late cycle . Exemplary economic indicators at late cycle may include growth slows banks scale back lending and the rising price of credit dampens demand firms accumulate inventory as sales weaken which puts pressure on their earnings policy may be slow to respond to the imminent crash so settings remain contractionary though becoming less restrictive toward the end .

In one implementation as the business cycle rolls into the contraction the SPC may observe widespread falling real activity. Exemplary economic indicators at this stage may include tight financial conditions result in shrinking demand corporate profits plummet in line with sales revenues companies pare back production and de stock and there is aggressive policy easing.

In one embodiment a user may operate a user device which may include any of a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a Smartphone e.g. a BlackBerry an Apple iPhone a Google Android a HTC a Samsung Galaxy etc. and or the like. In one implementation the user device may send a portfolio construction adjustment and or rebalancing request to the SPC server wherein the request may comprise an inquiry on the investment portfolio allocation strategy e.g. the portfolio allocation to equity bonds and or other assets etc. For example the user device may generate a Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP S message including a portfolio construction and or adjustment request in the form of data formatted according to the eXtensible Markup Language XML . An example listing of a portfolio construction adjustment and or rebalancing request substantially in the form of a HTTP S message including XML formatted data is provided below 

In the above example the user may optionally specify desired investment instrument types e.g. equity bonds etc. and the SPC server may provide an allocation percentage for each type accordingly.

In one implementation the SPC server may obtain and or update economic data from a data provider e.g. a database and or server that aggregate economic indicator data etc. In one implementation an example listing of the economic data request substantially in the form of a HTTP S message including XML formatted data is provided below 

In one implementation the SPC server may receive the requested economic indicators from the data provider e.g. in the form of a .csv files Excel spreadsheet and or the like.

In one implementation the SPC server may analyze the obtained historical data to determine economic indicator characteristics associated with each economic business cycle phase e.g. date the historical economic cycle etc. as further discussed in . In one implementation the SPC may then analyze historical market performance to generate an optimal portfolio associated with each economic business cycle phase e.g. see . In one implementation the obtaining historical data and dating historical cycle phase and generating updating optimal portfolio for a phase may be conducted periodically e.g. with updated data.

In one implementation the user may determine investment preferences and submit investment constraint and or parameters e.g. a maximum allocation percentage of one asset type a maximum allocation percentage of a holding etc. In one implementation an example listing of a user investment constraint parameter request substantially in the form of a HTTP S message including XML formatted data is provided below 

In the above example a user may configure a maximum allocation percentage of equity to be 30 and may restrict investment in stock symbol ABC e.g. for conflict reasons etc. .

In one implementation the SPC server may create a probit regression model to date the current economic business cycle phase e.g. see etc. which may generates probabilities of the current economic phase. For example the SPC may determine via the regression model that the probability of being in an early economic phase is 0.3 the probability of being in a mid cycle is 0.7 and or the like. Within implementations an example listing of the regression probabilities of current phase message substantially in the form of a HTTP S message including XML formatted data is provided below 

In one implementation the SPC may retrieve the optimal portfolio for each business cycle phase and generate a portfolio by combining the probability weighted optimal business cycle portfolios. As in the above example the output portfolio would combine 0.112 of the optimal early cycle portfolio 0.612 of the optimal mid cycle portfolio and 0.012 of the optimal late cycle portfolio and or the like. The combined seasonal portfolio may be returned to the user.

In one implementation the SPC server may generate a portfolio record to the SPC database . For example an exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to store the portfolio record to the SPC database is provided below 

In another implementation the SPC server may update with a data provider e.g. Bloomberg etc. constantly periodically intermittently and or on demand. For example in one implementation the SPC server may constantly periodically intermittently and or upon a user request send a data request e.g. see in for the most up to date economic analytics data from a data provider which may in turn aggregate and provide the economic data analytics to the SPC server. For example the economics analytics data may take a form similar to a spreadsheet in the format of .csv .xls .dat and or the like and may comprise statistical results generated from eViews and or the like. Economic data may include but not limited to GDP employment income credit profits policy inventories and or the like.

In one implementation upon receiving the most up to date economic data analytics the SPC server may determine analyze the data to date historical cycle phases e.g. to determine data characteristics associated with each cycle phase historically. In one implementation the SPC may then determine an optimal investment portfolio for each cycle phase as further discussed in .

In one implementation the SPC may determine the current phase of the economic business cycle e.g. by determining a probability that the current business cycle may be associated with each cycle phase early mid late or recession etc. date the cycle etc. Combining with the portfolio constraints parameters that may be optionally submitted from the user the SPC server may combine optimal portfolios associated with each cycle phase based on the probabilities that the current business cycle is associated with each phase . For example in one implementation the SPC server may maintain a list of securities ETFs bonds and or other investment instruments that generate an optimal investment combination suitable for a particular economic phase and the SPC server may make the investment portfolio recommendation based on the economic phase. In one implementation such optimal investment combination suitable for the particular economic phase may be obtained via historical performance analytics e.g. see .

In one implementation the user may receive and review the provided portfolio recommendation and may optionally submit a user selection of specific holdings or may alternatively accept the default settings from SPC . In one implementation the SPC server may optionally adjust the holding parameters based on user preferences e.g. the user configured parameters on investment allocation within a sector an industry a type of instrument etc. and may construct the portfolio based on the parameters . In one implementation the economic cycle phase dating and portfolio construction updating may occur periodically and the SPC may rebalance the portfolio based osn the current phase of the economic business cycle.

In one implementation the SPC may may determine impactful factors for each economic phase e.g. recess early mid late phases may have representative impactful economic factors see etc. . Exemplary asset classes may include but not limited to equities fixed income real estate currency collectibles derivatives and or the like. For example for the recession phase the exemplary impactful factors may include but not limited to failing activity drying credit declining profits easing policy falling sales and inventory data and or the like. In one implementation the SPC may obtain and collect data values of the corresponding data factors to transform data into usable factors for analysis and instantiate a probit model to insert the factor data into the model . For example the probit model may generate a normalized value that indicates a probability value that the current economy may be associated with a particular business cycle phase.

In one implementation the SPC may obtain output form the probit model e.g. coefficients of the regression model and execute the probit model with the coefficients to generate forecast output values .

and normalize the output values to generate a probability value associated with an economic cycle phase . In one implementation the SPC may determine the current economic cycle phase based on the probability value for each phases e.g. recess early mid or late etc. Further discussion of the probit model dating the current economic cycle phase is provided in .

Continuing on with upon dating the economic business cycle phase in the SPC may construct and or update the seasonal portfolio. In one implementation the SPC may optionally obtain an asset class selection e.g. an asset class that the user is interested in for investment portfolio construction etc. Exemplary asset classes may include but not limited to equities fixed income real estate currency collectibles derivatives and or the like. In one implementation the SPC may retrieve stock classification under the selected asset class selection sector and or the like and may determine whether any remap is necessary for the asset classes and or stock classification . For example the retrieved historical stock classification may be obsolete and the SPC may need to remap and apply the current structure to the past scheme to create the stock classification e.g. responding to market index such as GICS and or the like.

In one implementation the SPC may obtain historical returns for a selected asset class e.g. monthly returns etc. for a specified time period . Exemplary data sources may include but not limited to S P index for 20 years analytics sources Bloomberg feeds and or the like such data may be imported into eViews Microsoft Excel and or the like.

In one implementation the SPC may optionally select asset classes with historically optimal performance and test for discrimination in performance of asset classes across the early mid late recess phases . For example indicators employed for the discrimination testing may include but not limited to random monthly difference hit rate average relative difference and or the like . In one implementation the SPC may compare the difference of asset class performance in the four difference economic cycle phases. Exemplary discrimination testing procedures may include but not limited to paired comparison due trio testing triangle testing ABX testing duo trio in constant reference models and or the like. For example the discrimination testing may illustrate the major contributor for portfolio performance e.g. 30 of the total return may come from equities asset class in the early cycle etc.

In one implementation the SPC may optimize the portfolio constituents with based on predefined portfolio constraints e.g. the SPC may double the weights of equities in the early cycle as equities perform better at such phase of the economy etc . For example the SPC may adopt different objectives when determining weights of different asset classes such as but not limited to minimizing asset turnover minimizing potential volatility maximizing average returns etc. . Additionally the SPC may have additional constraints for asset class weighting e.g. a max min approach that requiring no asset class holds more than 20 of the entire portfolio etc.

In one implementation the SPC may rebalance the portfolio based on the generated constituent weights based on the weights determined at . In one implementation the SPC may periodically update the portfolio.

In one implementation different economic phase may have different characteristics associated with the data factors . For example during recession the SPC may employ factors such as but not limited to diffusion index recessionary indicators e.g. consumer expectation on business and economic conditions average workweek for manufacturing production workers residential building permits etc. domestic economic activity e.g. GDP inventory cycle e.g. new orders vs. inventories profit cycle e.g. productivity growth credit cycle e.g. leading credit index and or the like. During early cycle the SPC may employ factors such as but not limited to diffusion index early cycle indicators e.g. productivity growth initial jobless claims etc. domestic activity e.g. state activity diffusion index inventory cycle e.g. inventory to sales ratio profit cycle e.g. cyclical productivity index credit cycle e.g. tightening of commercial industrial loan standards and or the like. During mid cycle the SPC may employ factors such as but not limited to diffusion index mid cycle indicators e.g. ISM manufacturing PMI national activity index etc. domestic activity e.g. industrial production inventory cycle e.g. manufacturing trade sales and inventories labor markets e.g. personal incomes payroll growth credit cycle e.g. financial stress index and or the like. For late cycle the SPC may employ factors such as but not limited to diffusion index late cycle indicators e.g. labor market differential composite leading index etc. domestic activity e.g. transportation industrial production inventory cycle e.g. inventory to shipment ratio profit cycle e.g. corporate profit growth credit cycle e.g. slope of yield curve and or the like.

In one implementation the SPC may invoke a probit regression structure employing the input economic factors to generate coefficients for the factors . In one implementation the SPC may generate normalized values as outputs of the probit regression structure e.g. representing a probability of the recession phase early cycle mid cycle and or late cycle

With reference to the SPC may obtain historical data including but not limited to the economic data factors and the corresponding cycle phase and or the like. Different economic business cycle phases may have different representative economic factors and SPC may determine a group of impactful economic factors for each phase. For each factor and or each cycle phase the SPC may determine whether the particular cycle phase has a factor as a determining factor and may then collect all determining factors for the cycle phase . In one implementation the SPC may determine overlapped factors with a particular phase and eliminate the overlapped factor . The SPC may then store the factor as a determining factor for the particular cycle phase .

In one implementation the SPC may instantiate a binary probit structure to obtain coefficients for regressors and obtain import current values of the factors into the structure to obtain a statistical measure e.g. a probability that current business cycle phase is the particular cycle phase etc. for the factor .

For example in one implementation exemplary binary probit regression results employing various economic indicators as variables e.g. and determining a probability that the current economic business cycle phase is in an early cycle may be provided as the following 

In one implementation upon obtaining the coefficients the SPC may obtain the current values of the determining factors in the regression model and import the data values into a probit structure to calculate a normalized value e.g. a probability value etc. . Such normalized value may be obtained as a probability that the current cycle phase is associated with the particular cycle phase .

In one implementation the SPC may determine whether the four cycle phases have been iterated and may then repeat for every cycle phase e.g. early mid late and recession so that the SPC may obtain a probability of each cycle phase for the current cycle phase.

In one implementation the optimizer may employ a normalized expected asset return e.g. per cycle phase early mid late or recession objective and the optimizer may in turn maximize the return while minimizing a risk to generate optimal asset weights for an expected portfolio e.g. per cycle phase early mid late and recession .

In one implementation the early cycle may be typical when the target policy rate is slashed and real rates are negative to provide stimulus to the economy. In the mid cycle policy may be more steady remaining stimulatory or is beginning to normalize and real rates are around their average levels. In late cycle policy is tight and real rates are restrictive. Often the Fed begins to cut rates heading into a recession but may be too late to avert it.

With reference to as the economy may spend most of its time in the mid cycle where the strength of the expansion gains traction and is widespread. Production may grow at a steady pace supported by solid demand and the economy is consistently adding jobs. The monetary policy stance is also accommodative. So the choice of mid cycle indicators captures broad based improvement as well as stability in overall macroeconomic conditions across sectors and markets at the national and regional levels. In one implementation the broad sweep of available indicators may point to a high probability of the U.S. being in mid cycle e.g. see .

In one implementation a typical feature of the mid cycle is easing lending conditions which underpin steady credit growth e.g. see . When credit flows the economy usually grows. The Fed s Senior Loan Officer Survey suggests that banks are on net still easing though not as aggressively as they do in early cycle which is generally consistent with the economy being in a state of expansion.

In another implementation shows indicators of state level activity suggest that improvement is widespread geographically with the majority of states seeing gains over a month period in employment production and real earnings. This may be typical of an economic expansion that is fairly entrenched. Looking ahead localised weakness may become evident in areas adversely affected by drought conditions.

As shown in there have also been generally more strengths than weaknesses across the different parts of the economy since the beginning of the year particularly in housing and to a lesser extent employment e.g. see .

As shown in some forward looking indicators may have softened especially in the industrial sector e.g. .

With reference to a large part of the current soft patch is undoubtedly related to policy uncertainty already high relative to history and likely to intensify. When the second half of the year unfolds and lack of clarity persists on the fiscal cliff households and businesses may increasingly behave with caution affecting their spending investment and hiring decisions. So while the deterioration in macro indicators is not at odds with previous mid cycle slowdowns the extreme policy risks the subdued global outlook and fragile sentiment raises the risks of a significantly worse outcome for the final months of the year.

As shown in momentum across a broad range of data may appear to have eased recently. For example the Chicago Fed National Index which captures indicators from production and income to consumption and housing may point to some loss in momentum e.g. see .

In one implementation the current slowdown is on a similar scale to that which occurred in the middle of 2011 but the downside risks have mounted. In addition to domestic policy risks there are external risks from an escalation of the ongoing European crisis and a further weakening of the Chinese economy. In one implementation it is likely that the softness in activity including the declines in new orders is a symptom of precautionary behavior as a result of heightened uncertainty over the near term domestic and global outlook.

Returning to the fundamental dynamics of a mid cycle overall inventory levels remain well contained. And initial unemployment claims seems to have resumed a downward trend . Lending and monetary conditions may also remain supportive .

With reference to the quantitative and qualitative analysis may suggest that the U.S. economy is not yet in late cycle but may be on the cusp. Reflecting this our measure of cyclical productivity the ratio of the Leading Economic Indicator to aggregate weekly hours worked appears to have plateaued e.g. see . This has tended to precede the late cycle because when firms cannot extract further productivity gains to increase production they need to hire more workers. This eventually puts upward pressures on wages and underlying inflation one of the defining characteristics of late cycle.

With reference to corporate profits may show the back of sharp margin expansion as sales picked up pace and production operations remained lean e.g. see . This period of soaring profits had ended by mid 2010 when firms began to hire again to add to capacity

With reference to Our measure of cyclical productivity corroborates this story Chart . It too rebounded in early 2009 as leading indicators including financial and manufacturing indicators strengthened while the number of workers and their hours remained at low levels. By mid 2010 the recovery had steadied and the labour market began its long process of recovery

With reference to one sector that has the potential to give rise to some early cycle dynamics is housing where construction and sales have shown further signs of recovery e.g. . Since the 1970s a housing recovery has signaled the beginning of most early cycle periods. At the current juncture it could offset some of the drag from other parts of the economy.

Users e.g. which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the SPC controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network . For example the SPC controller may be connected to and or communicate with users e.g. operating client device s e.g. including but not limited to personal computer s server s and or various mobile device s including but not limited to cellular telephone s smartphone s e.g. iPhone Blackberry Android OS based phones etc. tablet computer s e.g. Apple iPad HP Slate Motorola Xoom etc. eBook reader s e.g. Amazon Kindle Barnes and Noble s Nook eReader etc. laptop computer s notebook s netbook s gaming console s e.g. XBOX Live Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation Portable etc. portable scanner s and or the like.

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The SPC controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeably throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effectuate communications operations storage etc. The computer systemization may be connected to a power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing SPC controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. BCM28150 HSPA and BCM2076 Bluetooth 4.0 GPS etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications Intel s XMM 7160 LTE DC HSPA Qualcom s CDMA 2000 Mobile Data Station Modem Snapdragon and or the like. The system clock may have a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock may be coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. It should be understood that in alternative embodiments any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to floating point units integer processing units integrated system bus controllers logic operating units memory management control units etc. and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor may construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state value. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s classic e.g. ARM7 9 11 embedded Coretx M R application Cortex A embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Atom Celeron Mobile Core 2 Duo i3 i5 i7 Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code . Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the SPC controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed SPC mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller mobile devices e.g. smartphones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs etc. may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the SPC may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the SPC some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the SPC component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the SPC may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example SPC features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects may be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the SPC features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the SPC system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks may be programmed to perform the operation of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational operators such as decoders or simple mathematical operations. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be circuit flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the SPC may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate SPC controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the SPC.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the SPC thereby providing an electric current to all the interconnected components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters frequently although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters may connect to the interface bus via expansion and or slot architecture. Various expansion and or slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus ExpressCard Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA Thunderbolt and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 Ethernet fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Thunderbolt Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the SPC controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed SPC architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the SPC controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB Bluetooth IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital DisplayPort Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One output device may be a video display which may take the form of a Cathode Ray Tube CRT Liquid Crystal Display LCD Light Emitting Diode LED Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED Plasma and or the like based monitor with an interface e.g. VGA DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Often the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable HDMI etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the SPC controller. Peripheral devices may include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors near field communication NFC devices network interfaces printers radio frequency identifiers RFIDs scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. microphones cameras etc. .

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the SPC controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access may be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the SPC controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of the CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield e.g. Solo Connect etc. SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 sMIP s e.g. 208956 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the SPC controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the operation of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism however such an embodiment may result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In one configuration memory may include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may employ any number of computer storage devices systems. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the SPC component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection may be stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the SPC controller. The operating system may facilitate access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. In addition emobile operating systems such as Apple s iOS Google s Android Hewlett Packard s WebOS Microsofts Windows Mobile and or the like may be employed. Any of these operating systems may be embedded within the hardware of the NICK controller and or stored loaded into memory storage. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the SPC controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the SPC controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be an Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Apple s iMessage Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the SPC controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port 21 and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the SPC database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the SPC database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the SPC. In one embodiment the information server may provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the SPC as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua and iOS s Cocoa Touch IBM s OS 2 Google s Android Mobile UI Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium 14 Mobile NT XP Vista 7 8 i.e. Aero Metro Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Goofle s Mobile Chrome Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator Apple s Mobile Safari embedded web browser objects such as through Apple s Cocoa Touch object class and or the like. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. Chrome FireFox Internet Explorer Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones smartphones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Also in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar operations of both. The combined application may similarly effect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the SPC equipped nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as but not limited to Apple s Mail Server 3 dovect sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server may route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the SPC.

Access to the SPC mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mobile Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash operation passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the SPC may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the SPC component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the SPC and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The SPC database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be any of a number of fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as DB2 MySQL Oracle Sybase and or the like. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the SPC database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases may include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of capabilities encapsulated within a given object. If the SPC database is implemented as a data structure the use of the SPC database may be integrated into another component such as the SPC component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Users table may include fields such as but not limited to user id user device id username password dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode devices list contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type and or the like. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SPC. A Devices table may include fields such as but not limited to device ID device name device IP device GPS device MAC device serial device ECID device UDID device browser device type device model device version device OS device apps list device securekey wallet app installed flag and or the like. A Regression Models table may include fields such as but not limited to model ID model name model type model objective model input model output model structure model parameters model index model cycle id model variables and or the like. A Cycle Phase table may include fields such as but not limited to cycle id cycle name cycle phase name cycle funds cycle GDP cycle unemployment cycle benchmark cycle target weight cycle etf cycle inflation cycle pe and or the like. A Data Provider table may include fields such as but not limited to provide id provider name provider type provider data type provider index type provider server ip provider server id provider url and or the like. A Funds table may include fields such as but not limited to fund id fund name fund etf fund type fund sector fund history fund performance fund min investment fund return fund objective and or the like. A Portfolio table may include fields such as but not limited to portfolio id portfolio name portfolio user id portfolio constituent type portfolio  portfolio benchmark portfolio start date portfolio end date portfolio alert portfolio rebalance portfolio allocation portfolio return and or the like. A Trading Log table may include fields such as but not limited to log id log timestamp log instrument id log portfolio id log amount log exchange id log quantity and or the like. A Performance table may include fields such as but not limited to start date end date portfolio id return sector return GDP unemployment inflation what if return index return and or the like. A market data table includes fields such as but not limited to market data feed ID asset ID asset symbol asset name spot price bid price ask price and or the like in one embodiment the market data table is populated through a market data feed e.g. Bloomberg s PhatPipe Dun Bradstreet Reuter s Tib Triarch etc. for example through Microsoft s Active Template Library and Dealing Object Technology s real time toolkit Rtt.Multi. A Economic Indicator table may include fields such as but not limited to Econ data id econ data type econ data name econ data timestamp econ data value econ data unit econ and or the like.

In one embodiment the SPC database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search SPC component may treat the combination of the SPC database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the SPC. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the SPC may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The SPC may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The SPC database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SPC database communicates with the SPC component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The SPC component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the SPC component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the SPC discussed in the previous figures. As such the SPC affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks. The features and embodiments of the SPC discussed herein increase network efficiency by reducing data transfer requirements the use of more efficient data structures and mechanisms for their transfer and storage. As a consequence more data may be transferred in less time and latencies with regard to transactions are also reduced. In many cases such reduction in storage transfer time bandwidth requirements latencies etc. will reduce the capacity and structural infrastructure requirements to support the SPC s features and facilities and in many cases reduce the costs energy consumption requirements and extend the life of SPC s underlying infrastructure this has the added benefit of making the SPC more reliable. Similarly many of the features and mechanisms are designed to be easier for users to use and access thereby broadening the audience that may enjoy employ and exploit the feature sets of the SPC such ease of use also helps to increase the reliability of the SPC. In addition the feature sets include heightened security as noted via the Cryptographic components and throughout making access to the features and data more reliable and secure.

The SPC component may transform user portfolio construction request e.g. see in etc. via SPC components such as but not limited to Economic Data Collector e.g. see in etc. Portfolio Construction e.g. see etc. Economic Cycle Phase Dating e.g. see FIGS. B and A B etc. Portfolio Execution e.g. see in etc. and or the like into portfolio investment records e.g. see in etc. and or the like and use of the SPC.

The SPC component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Representational State Transfer REST SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the SPC server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The SPC component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SPC component communicates with the SPC database operating systems other program components and or the like. The SPC may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the SPC node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that may dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the SPC controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the SPC controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information server which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

http publib.boulder.ibm.com infocenter tivihelp v2r1 index.jsp topic com.ibm.IBMDI.doc referenceguide295.htm

http publib.boulder.ibm.com infocenter tivihelp v2r1 index.jsp topic com.ibm.IBMDI.doc referenceguide259.htm

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for SEASONAL PORTFOLIO CONSTRUCTION PLATFORM APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and or otherwise shows by way of illustration various example embodiments in which the claimed innovations may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed innovations. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the innovations or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the innovations and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical operational organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any data flow sequence s program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes processors services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are also contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the innovations and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other innovations not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed innovations including the right to claim such innovations file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical operational organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a SPC individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the SPC may be implemented that allow a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the SPC may be adapted for operation management. While various embodiments and discussions of the SPC have been directed to investment portfolio management however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

