---

title: Decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment
abstract: Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment. A computer system includes a processor that can execute computer-executable instructions to perform various operations. The processor can perform operations to provide security services to one or more customer platforms. The operations can include receiving a network security software component from a security service provider, and deploying the network security software component within a distributed computing environment so that the network security software component can be executed by a computing resource of the distributed computing environment to provide a security service to the customer platform(s). The network security software component includes a software component that has been decoupled from a hardware component of a network security device by the security service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09456003&OS=09456003&RS=09456003
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09456003
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130724
---
This application relates generally to network security. More specifically the disclosure provided herein relates to decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment.

Today many companies interact with their customers vendors development communities and others via the Internet and other networks. These interactions expose companies to a wide range of security threats many of which are constantly evolving. In an effort to prevent or at least mitigate security threats companies devote significant financial and engineering resources to deploy and to maintain security appliances within their internal networks and their gateways to public networks such as the Internet.

Many companies deploy a security perimeter that includes multiple security appliances to protect their data technology infrastructure and other assets. These appliances are often dedicated hardware devices upon which security software is executed. The security software may provide security functions such as for example firewall protection intrusion detection intrusion prevention or authentication. The perimeter based security model may provide the necessary protection for certain security threats but as these threats evolve the ineffectiveness of this model is quickly exposed that is for example the inflexibility to enable rapid deployment of new security appliances and to enable the hardware and or software of existing security appliances to be updated or otherwise improved to adapt to these evolved security threats.

Furthermore the increased adoption by companies of the bring your own device policy introduces additional security concerns. For example allowing an employee to bring his or her smartphone device to work and allowing that device to connect to their company s wireless local area network may introduce malicious software into the company s internal network often unbeknownst to the employee. With tens hundreds or even thousands of devices interacting with a company s internal network on a daily basis the number of possible security threats from each individual device let alone any malicious software or rogue code operating within what is perceived to be legitimate software is likely to increase significantly and increase the ineffectiveness of the current perimeter based security model.

The present disclosure is directed to decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment. By decoupling the hardware and software within a network security appliance and moving the software component to a distributed computing environment security vendors software developers and third party security service providers can benefit from on demand access to a variety of security services through open application programming interfaces APIs . In this manner each asset requiring protection can be protected in accordance with the specific security requirements of that asset instead of the security requirements of the collection of the assets as a whole as is the case with the perimeter based security model described above.

According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a computer system is disclosed. The computer system can include a processor and a memory that stores computer executable instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform various operations. The computer system in some embodiments is deployed within a distributed computing environment. The computer system in some other embodiments is external to and in communication with the distributed computing environment.

The operations can be performed to provide security services to one or more customer platforms. The operations can include receiving a network security software component from a security service provider and deploying the network security software component within the distributed computing environment so that the network security software component can be executed by the computing resource to provide a security service to the customer platform s . The network security software component includes a software component that has been decoupled from a hardware component of a network security device by the security service provider.

In some embodiments the operations may also include exposing an API to the customer platform to provide on demand access to the security service provided by the network security software component. In addition the operations may include receiving an API call from the customer platform and in response providing the security service to the customer platform. The API call can identify an asset that is associated with the customer platform. The API call can also include a selection of the security service to protect the access. The asset may be real or virtualized.

In some embodiments the operations may also include provisioning the network security software component to protect an identified asset and providing the security service to the customer platform to protect the asset.

In some embodiments the operations may also include receiving a further network security software component from a further security service provider. In these embodiments the further network security software component has been decoupled from a hardware component of a further network security device by the further security service provider. The operations in these embodiments can also include deploying the further network security software component within the distributed computing environment so that the further network security software component can be executed by the computing resource to provide a further security service to the customer platform. The further security service can be used to provide a previously identified asset and or a further asset.

According to another aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein a method performed by the computer system is also disclosed. The method can include the same operations as those described above.

According to yet another aspect a mobile device is disclosed. The mobile device can include a processor and a memory. The memory can store computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations in some embodiments can include launching a mobile client and connecting to a security software service platform via the mobile client. The operation can also include calling an API exposed by the security software service platform to request that a security service be enabled for the mobile device. In response to calling the API the mobile device can perform an operation for receiving instructions to enable the security service.

In some embodiments the mobile device is a bring your own device device for use within an enterprise network. In these embodiments the security service can include a traffic routing service that routes traffic originating from the mobile device to a security node operating within a distributed computing environment via control provided by the security service platform. In addition to or as an alternative to the traffic routing service the security service can enable traffic encryption for traffic originating from the mobile device.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of this disclosure.

The following detailed description is directed to decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment. By decoupling the hardware and software within a network security appliance and moving the software component to a distributed computing environment security vendors software developers and third party security service providers can benefit from on demand access to a variety of security services through open application programming interfaces APIs . In this manner each asset requiring protection can be protected in accordance with the specific security requirements of that asset instead of the security requirements of the collection of the assets as a whole as is the case with the perimeter based security model described above.

While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system and application programs on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other types of program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Referring now to aspects of an operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein for decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The operating environment shown in includes a plurality of network security devices A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as network security devices . The network security devices may include network security appliances that provide various network security functions including but not limited to intrusion prevention functions via intrusion prevention systems IPSs intrusion detection functions via intrusion detection systems IDSs firewall functions virtual private network VPN functions antivirus functions spam filtering functions and content filtering functions. Each of the network security devices may provide one or more of these network security functions.

Each of the network security devices includes hardware components and software components. The hardware components of the network security devices may include for example one or more processors one or more memory components one or more network connectivity components one or more input output components and one or more power components. These hardware components may be discrete components within the network security devices or may be combined in various combinations such as for example in a system on chip SoC configuration. The hardware components and particularly the processor s may execute the software components to provide one or more of the network security functions described above and in some implementations additional functions not specifically mentioned above.

Many companies deploy a security perimeter that includes multiple security appliances such as the network security devices to protect their data technology infrastructure and other assets. As discussed above this perimeter based security model may provide the necessary protection for certain security threats but as these threats evolve the ineffectiveness of this model is quickly exposed that is for example the inflexibility to enable rapid deployment of new security appliances and to enable the hardware and or software of existing security appliances to be updated or otherwise improved to adapt to these evolved security threats. Furthermore as discussed above the increased adoption by companies of the bring your own device policy introduces additional security concerns as the number of possible security threats from each individual device let alone any malicious software or rogue code operating within what is perceived to be legitimate software is likely to increase significantly and increase the ineffectiveness of the current perimeter based security model.

In an effort to address the aforementioned shortcomings of a perimeter based security model and for additional reasons one aspect disclosed herein enables network security software A N to be decoupled from the hardware components of the network security devices A N respectively in order to provide security functions such as for example those described above within a distributed computing environment via controls provided through a security software service platform . More generally vendors software developers third party providers and others may be encouraged to decouple the software components of their network security appliances and to deploy the software components on the distributed computing environment which operates in accordance with a cloud computing model by which ubiquitous convenient and on demand network access to security services provided by the software components can be achieved through leveraging a shared pool of configurable computing resources to enable rapid provisioning of virtual network security appliances that provide the network security functions previously provided by dedicated network security appliances such as the network security devices . In this manner the distributed computing environment is able to provide on demand security services via the security software service platform to provide access to these services via a broad range of networks including wireless and wired wide area networks and to provide rapid and elastic provisioning and tear down of new security services as well as resource usage monitoring alerting reporting and domain specific deployment of network security. Additional details regarding the security software service platform are provided herein below with reference to .

The distributed computing environment may provide a shared pool of configurable computing resources computing resources including processing resources memory resources storage resources and networking resources that can be configured in various ways to support the requirements of the network security software that were previously met by the hardware components of the network security devices . In some embodiments the security software service platform may execute on or otherwise utilize at least a portion of the computing resources provided by the distributed computing environment . Alternatively in some other embodiments the security software service platform may execute on or otherwise utilize computing resources external to the distributed computing environment . For example the security software service platform may execute on dedicated computing resources or shared computing resources that are external to and in communication with the distributed computing environment . As such the illustrated embodiment shown in in which the security software service platform is included in the distributed computing environment should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In some embodiments a configuration of at least a portion of the computing resources is provided via a web application interface provided on a web site that provides access to configuration functions of the distributed computing environment. Alternatively in some other embodiments a configuration of at least a portion of the computing resources is provided via a native application interface provided on a native application that executes on a customer device as will be described in greater detail below.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the computing resources is configured in accordance with a configuration template. A configuration template may provide configurations for executing general use applications processor intensive applications memory intensive applications network intensive applications storage intensive applications or may be specific to applications that provide certain services such as the security services described herein. In some embodiments the available security services are provided as part of the template such that a user can select which security services to deploy for a particular identified asset.

The deployment of various security services within the distributed computing environment allows for a unique innovation environment in which the security capabilities provided by multiple security vendors developers and or third parties hereinafter referred to generally or collectively as security service providers are made available within a common platform. This allows security service providers to leverage other technologies to discover and offer new features and or services that may otherwise be unavailable in the traditional model of dedicated network security appliances. For example one security service provider may provide an industry leading firewall application and another security service provider may provide an industry leading IDS. A customer of the security software service platform can leverage both of these industry leading services to protect their asset s . In addition service providers may elect to utilize capabilities made available by other service providers via the security software service platform to bolster their own offerings. In this manner new and innovative security service products may be offered to customers via the security software service platform .

The unique innovation environment that is created by the deployment of various security services within the distributed computing environment under control of the security software service platform also provides security service providers with additional opportunities to monetize their security service offerings. By way of example a security service provider may provide their security service s via the security software service platform to other security service providers for a fee. Security service providers therefore can monetize their security service offerings not only by providing the security services to customers for the protection of their assets but also providing the security services to other security service providers. The fee charged from service provider to service provider may be the same as or different than the fee charged to other customers.

The network security software A N may expose one or more network security software application programming interfaces APIs A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as network security software APIs to the security software service platform . The security software service platform may call one or more of the network security software APIs to request that the network security software perform certain operations. The network security software in turn may be executed by one or more virtual machines operating on a portion of the computing resources to perform the requested operations and may provide a response. For example consider the network security software A A as being capable of providing IDS functions and so the security software service platform may call the network security software API A that is associated with the network security software A A to request that the network security software A A initiate the IDS functions and the network security software A A may in turn initiate the IDS functions and respond to the security software service platform with confirmation that the IDS functions have been initiated.

The security software service platform may expose one or more security software service APIs A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as security software service APIs to provide customer platforms A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as customer platforms access to the security software service platform and more particularly the security services provided by the network security software being executed in the distributed computing environment . According to various embodiments the functionality of the customer platforms may be provided by one or more server computers desktop computers mobile telephones other mobile devices laptop computers set top boxes other computing systems and the like. It should be understood that the functionality of the customer platforms can be provided by a single device by two similar devices and or by two or more dissimilar devices. For purposes of describing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein the customer platforms may be described herein as server computers personal computers mobile devices or a combination thereof. It should be understood that this embodiment is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The customer platforms may execute one or more customer applications A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as customer applications . The customer applications may initiate API calls A N hereinafter referred to collectively and or generically as API calls over one or more communications networks network to one or more of the security software service APIs to access via the security software service platform the services provided by the network security software within the distributed computing environment . The customer applications may include for example web browsers that provide access to one or more websites associated with the security software service platform and or the distributed computing environment such that a user can provision one or more virtual machines that utilize at least a portion of the computing resources to execute one or more of the network security software .

The customer platforms may include individual user devices such as mobile telephones other mobile devices laptop computers set top boxes and the like as described above. In addition the customer platforms can include reseller platforms enterprise customer platforms vendor platforms legacy platforms billing system platforms charging system platforms and the like. Each of these platforms may contain one or more networks servers databases and or other computing systems.

Reseller platforms may provide a reseller storefront by which customers may for example browse security services offered by the security software service platform purchase security services and read and write reviews for security services. The reseller platforms may be made accessible via one or more websites and or one or more native applications including application storefront applications installed on customer mobile devices and or personal computers for example.

The enterprise customer platforms may include enterprise customer networks and computing systems. The enterprise customer platforms may include one or more assets to be protected by one or more of the security services offered by the security software service platform . Alternatively or additionally enterprise customers may deploy one or more virtual assets on the distributed computing environment .

The vendor platforms may include networks and computing systems of security vendors that decouple the network security software from the hardware of the network security devices and deploy the network security software within the distributed computing environment

The legacy platforms may include legacy networks and legacy computing systems of the entity that provides the security software service platform . The legacy platforms may interact with the security software service platform to provide the security software service platform access to customer data and other information stored within the legacy network and or to provide access to functions of the legacy network including customer provisioning.

The billing system platforms may include computing systems that may provide billing services to the security software service platform to facilitate billing for security services provided via the security software service platform . The charging system platforms may include computing systems that provide charging services to the security software service platform to facilitate charging for security services provided via the security software service platform in accordance with any charging scheme.

The network may be or may include a wireless wide area network WWAN such as a mobile telecommunications network utilizing one or more mobile telecommunications technologies to provide one or more of the customer platforms access to the security software service platform and to additionally provide voice and or data services to one or more of the customer platforms . The mobile telecommunications technologies can include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA ONE CDMA2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . Moreover the network may utilize various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Space Division Multiple Access SDMA and the like. Data communications may be provided using General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family including High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA LTE and various other current and future wireless data access standards. The network may be configured to provide voice and or data communications with any combination of the above technologies. The network may be configured to or adapted to provide voice and or data communications in accordance with future generation technologies.

The network may be or may include a wireless local area network WLAN operating in accordance with one or more Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standards such as IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n and or future 802.11 standard referred to herein collectively as WI FI . Draft 802.11 standards are also contemplated. In some embodiments the WLAN is implemented utilizing one or more wireless WI FI access points. In some embodiments one or more of the wireless WI FI access points is another computing device with connectivity to a WWAN and that is functioning as a WI FI hotspot. One or more of the customer platforms may securely connect to the network via various encryption technologies including but not limited WI FI Protected Access WPA WPA2 Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP and the like.

The network may be or may include a wireless personal area network WPAN operating in accordance with Infrared Data Association IrDA BLUETOOTH wireless Universal Serial Bus USB Z Wave ZIGBEE or some other short range wireless technology. Additional details regarding the network are provided herein below with reference to .

The assets A B in the perimeter based security model network configuration are protected by network security appliances A C which may individually perform any network security function such as for example firewall functions IDS functions IPS functions or authentication functions. The network security appliances A C include a first network security appliance A a second network security appliance B and a third network security appliance C.

The perimeter based security model network configuration may provide the necessary protection for the asset against certain security threats but as these threats evolve the ineffectiveness of the perimeter based security model network configuration is quickly exposed that is for example the inflexibility to enable rapid deployment of new security appliances and to enable the hardware and or software of the network security appliances A C to be updated or otherwise improved to adapt to these evolved security threats.

By decoupling the hardware and software within the network security appliances A C and moving the software components to the distributed computing environment shown in security service providers can benefit from on demand access to a variety of security services through open APIs. In this manner each asset requiring protection can be protected in accordance with the specific security requirements of that asset instead of the security requirements of the collection of the assets as a whole as is the case with the perimeter based security model network configuration described above.

Turning now to a ring based security model network configuration is shown. The ring based security model network configuration shows the network with which two assets asset A A and asset B B are in communication. Although two assets are shown any number of assets may be protected using the ring based security model network configuration . The assets A B in the ring based security model network configuration are surrounded by security software service rings A B respectively referred to generally or generically as security software service rings . Each of the security software service rings provides security that is specific to one or more assets. In the illustrated example the security software service ring A is associated with the security functions provided by a first network security ring A a second network security ring B and a third network security ring C to the asset A A. Also in the illustrated example the security service ring B is associated with the security functions provided by the second network security ring B to the asset B B. It should be understood that the security software service rings may be associated with any number of security functions provided by any number of network security rings and so the illustrated example should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

In the illustrated example the first network security ring A provides the same security function as the first network security appliance A the second network security ring B provides the same security function as the second network security appliance B the third network security ring C provides the same security function as the third network security appliance C and collectively the network security rings A C provide customized protection for the asset A A. The second network security ring B also provides customized protection for the asset B B. In this manner the asset A A and the asset B B are protected in accordance with their individual specific security requirements instead of the security requirements of the collection of both assets as is the case with the perimeter based security model network configuration described above wherein the asset A A and the asset B B are both protected by the first network security appliance A the second network security appliance B and the third network security appliance C.

Turning briefly to the security software service platform provides the network security rings in response to API calls such as the API calls . For example the customer platform A A may initiate the API call A A to the security software service platform in response to which the security software service platform can provision the security service provided by the network security software A A by configuring at least a portion of the computing resources for executing the network security software A A to protect the asset A A and or the asset B B. The asset A A and or the asset B B may be virtualized assets deployed within the distributed computing environment or may be assets external to the distributed computing environment and operating on or within one or more of the customer platforms .

Turning now to the security software service platform and various components thereof will be described in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The illustrated security software service platform includes a configuration data store domain specific APIs provisioning APIs usage APIs platform APIs security APIs alerting APIs and reporting APIs. . The various APIs may include computer executable instructions which when executed by one or more processor internal or external to the distributed computing environment cause the one or more processor to perform operations to facilitate interactions between the security software service platform and one or more of the customer platforms .

The configuration data store stores configuration data for implementing various security services within the distributed computing environment . For example a particular security service provided by the network security software A A may require a certain configuration of at least a portion of the computing resources and so the configuration data store can store configuration data associated with this configuration such that API calls to the security software service platform for the security service provided by the network security software A A may be responded to by configuring at least a portion of the computing resources in accordance with the configuration data. In this way customers can easily select security services to be provisioned for their assets without knowledge of the computing resources needed to actually implement the security services.

The domain specific APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to allow certain domains names to access the security software service platform . Through the domain specific APIs the security software service platform can provide access to customer security services that are custom designed by one or more security service providers for a particular domain.

The provisioning APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to provision customers to utilize the security software service platform . The provisioning APIs may access various customer systems including customer databases billing systems charging systems and other customer oriented computing systems to provision a customer to utilize the security software service platform .

The usage APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to enable usage monitoring. Usage monitoring may include allowing customers to monitor resource usage of the computing resources utilized by the security service s that is protecting their asset s . Other usage monitoring may include monitoring data associated with the security service s that is protecting a customer s asset s .

The platform APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to other applications such as the applications executing on the customer platforms to allow access to the various security services offered via the security software service platform . The platform APIs may be or may include the security software service APIs .

The security APIs may include the network security software APIs exposed by the network security software deployed within the distributed computing environment .

The alerting APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to enable internal or external alerts to be generated and sent to customers. Internal alerts may be provided within the security software service platform to alert of issues the computing resources and or the network security software executing on the computing resources . External alerts may be provided to the customer platforms in response to alert criteria being met. It is contemplated that the alert criteria may include pre defined alert criteria which may be implemented by default or upon selection by a customer when a security service is provisioned. It also is contemplated that the alert criteria may include custom alert criteria defined by or for a customer when a security service is provisioned. Alert may be sent via email telephone call push notification short message service SMS message Internet protocol IP message really simple syndication RSS feed or other alert methodology known in the art.

The reporting APIs are exposed by the security software service platform to enable reports to be generated and sent to customers. The reports may provide summary level and or detailed accounts of any operations performed by the security software service platform or at the control of the security software service platform including operations performed by the network security software . The reports may be provided via email telephone call push notification SMS message IP message RSS feed or any other reporting methodology known in the art.

Turning now to a concept of platform multipliers will be described in context of the security software service platform . The security software service platform is able to generate revenue via multiple avenues. As illustrated in the security software service platform is in communication with vendors providers developers and consultants on the left hand side and on the right hand side the security software service platform is in communication with businesses consumers prosumers and devices machines .

The vendors the providers the developers and the consultants are able to decouple the hardware and software components of their network security device offerings and deploy them within the distributed computing environment at the control of the security software service platform . The entity that operates the security software service platform may charge a fee to the vendors the providers the developers and or the consultants for use of the security software service platform as a way by which to offer security services in addition to or in lieu of dedicated network security devices. Additionally the security software service platform provides the security services to a plurality of customer types such as for example the businesses the consumers the prosumers and the devices machines .

Moreover the vendors the providers the developers and or the consultants may access a number of security services offered by each other. A fee may be associated with such offerings and so this provides yet another avenue for revenue generated by the security software service platform .

Turning now to aspects of a method for decoupling hardware and software components of the network security devices to provide security software as a service in the distributed computing environment will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. It should be understood that the operations of the methods disclosed herein are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all of the operations in an alternative order s is possible and is contemplated. The operations have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Operations may be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

It also should be understood that the methods disclosed herein can be ended at any time and need not be performed in its entirety. Some or all operations of the methods and or substantially equivalent operations can be performed by execution of computer readable instructions included on a computer storage media as defined herein. The term computer readable instructions and variants thereof as used herein is used expansively to include routines applications application modules program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Computer readable instructions can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

Thus it should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance and other requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein are referred to variously as states operations structural devices acts or modules. These states operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof. As used herein the phrase cause a processor to perform operations and variants thereof is used to refer to causing a processor of a computing system or device such as any computing resources operating within the distributed computing environment or external to the distributed computing environment to perform one or more operations and or causing the processor to direct other components of the computing system or device to perform one or more of the operations.

For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed in part by one or more service providers and in another part by the security software service platform via execution of one or more software modules. It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein a security service provider of a network security device such as one of the network security devices decouples the software components from the hardware components of the network security device such as by decoupling the network security software A from the network security device A A the network security software B from the network security device B B or the network security software N from the security device N N. The process of decoupling the software components from the hardware components of the network security device may be particular to a specific security service provider and therefore the details of the actual decoupling process are not detailed herein.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security service provider ports the software component of the network security device to the security software service platform . The process of porting the software component to the security software service platform may be facilitated by a porting software application which may be implemented via one or more web or native applications. In some implementations the security service provider creates an account with the security software service platform and uploads the software component s to the security software service platform in association with that account.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform deploys the software component within the distributed computing environment . From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform exposes an API such as the security software service API to the customer platforms to provide on demand access to the security service provided by the software component that was decoupled from the hardware of the network security device.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform receives an API call from a customer platform such as one of the API calls from one of the customer platforms . In response to the API call the security software service platform provides the security service requested in the API call. From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

Turning now to aspects of a method for establishing security rings around an asset will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. For purposes of illustrating and describing some of the concepts of the present disclosure the method is described as being performed by the security software service platform via execution of one or more software modules. It should be understood that additional and or alternative devices and or network nodes can provide the functionality described herein via execution of one or more modules applications and or other software. Thus the illustrated embodiments are illustrative and should not be viewed as being limiting in any way.

The method begins at operation wherein the security software service platform identifies an asset for protection. In some embodiments the asset is identified via input received from a customer platform such as one of the customer platforms . A user of the customer platform may identify the asset for protection by way of a web application interface or a native application interface. The identified asset may be a virtualized asset that has been deployed within the distributed computing environment . In some embodiments the virtualized asset is not yet deployed within the distributed computing environment . In some other embodiments the asset is virtualized in another distributed computing environment. In still other embodiments the asset is not virtualized.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform receives a selection of one or more security services to protect the identified asset. For example a user of the customer platform may select a firewall service an IDS service and an authentication service for protecting the identified asset. In response to the selection the security software service platform at operation provisions the software component s associated with the selected security service s to protect the identified asset.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform provides the security service s to protect the identified asset. The security software service platform provides the security service s to protect the identified asset in accordance with a ring based security model such as described herein above. In this manner each asset requiring protection can be protected in accordance with the specific security requirements of that asset instead of the security requirements of the collection of the assets as a whole as is the case with a perimeter based security model.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform receives a selection of one or more additional security services to protect the identified asset. The method then proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform provides the additional security service s to protect the identified asset. From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

Turning now to aspects of a method for extending a virtual machine creation template to incorporate a newly ported software component that has been decoupled from a network security device will be described in detail according to an illustrative embodiment. The method begins at operation wherein the security software service platform receives a ported software component that has been decoupled from a network security device. For example the security software service platform may receive the network security software A A the network security software B B and or the network security software N N that has been decoupled from the network security device A A the network security device B B and or the network security device N N respectively.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform extends a virtual machine creation template to incorporate access to the ported software component. For example the template may include a user interface element such as for example a checkbox to allow a user to enable or disable the ported software component. If selected the ported software component can be enabled for an identified asset

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the security software service platform receives from a customer platform a virtual machine configuration that utilizes the extended virtual machine creation template. In response at operation the security software service platform deploys a new virtual machine that is configured in accordance with the virtual machine configuration within the distributed computing environment . From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

Turning now to additional details of the network are illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment. The network includes a cellular network a packet data network for example the Internet and a circuit switched network for example a publicly switched telephone network PSTN . The cellular network includes various components such as but not limited to base transceiver stations BTSs Node B s or e Node B s base station controllers BSCs radio network controllers RNCs mobile switching centers MSCs mobile management entities MMEs short message service centers SMSCs multimedia messaging service centers MMSCs home location registers HLRs home subscriber servers HSSs visitor location registers VLRs charging platforms billing platforms voicemail platforms GPRS core network components location service nodes an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the like. The cellular network also includes radios and nodes for receiving and transmitting voice data and combinations thereof to and from radio transceivers networks the packet data network and the circuit switched network .

A mobile communications device such as for example a cellular telephone a user equipment a mobile terminal a PDA a laptop computer a handheld computer and combinations thereof can be operatively connected to the cellular network . In some embodiments the mobile communications device is or is included in one or more of the customer platforms . The cellular network can be configured as a 2G GSM network and can provide data communications via GPRS and or EDGE. Additionally or alternatively the cellular network can be configured as a 3G UMTS network and can provide data communications via the HSPA protocol family for example HSDPA EUL also referred to as HSUPA and HSPA . The cellular network also is compatible with 4G mobile communications standards as well as evolved and future mobile standards.

The packet data network includes various devices for example servers computers databases and other devices in communication with another as is generally known. The packet data network devices are accessible via one or more network links. The servers often store various files that are provided to a requesting device such as for example a computer a terminal a smartphone or the like. Typically the requesting device includes software a browser for executing a web page in a format readable by the browser or other software. Other files and or data may be accessible via links in the retrieved files as is generally known. In some embodiments the packet data network includes or is in communication with the Internet. The circuit switched network includes various hardware and software for providing circuit switched communications. The circuit switched network may include or may be what is often referred to as a plain old telephone system POTS . The functionality of a circuit switched network or other circuit switched network are generally known and will not be described herein in detail.

The illustrated cellular network is shown in communication with the packet data network and a circuit switched network though it should be appreciated that this is not necessarily the case. One or more Internet capable devices for example a personal computer a laptop a portable device or another suitable device can communicate with one or more cellular networks and devices connected thereto through the packet data network . It also should be appreciated that the Internet capable device can communicate with the packet data network through the circuit switched network the cellular network and or via other networks not illustrated .

As illustrated a communications device for example a telephone facsimile machine modem computer or the like can be in communication with the circuit switched network and there through to the packet data network and or the cellular network . It should be appreciated that the communications device can be an Internet capable device and can be substantially similar to the Internet capable device . In the specification the network is used to refer broadly to any combination of the networks . It should be appreciated that substantially all of the functionality described with reference to the network can be performed by the cellular network the packet data network and or the circuit switched network alone or in combination with other networks network elements and the like.

According to various implementations the customer platforms can use any combination of the devices disclosed herein including but not limited to the mobile device the Internet capable device and or the communication device to access web pages or other resources such as web pages or other resources provided by or for the security software service platform and or the distributed computing environment to access the security software service platform to access the distributed computing environment to receive the API calls to respond to the API calls and or for other interactions between the customer platforms and the security software service platform and the distributed computing environment . As such it should be understood that the security software service platform the distributed computing environment and the customer platforms can interact with one another via any number and or combination of devices and networks.

Turning now to an illustrative mobile device and components thereof will be described. In some embodiments one or more of the customer platforms described above with reference to can be configured as and or can have an architecture similar or identical to the mobile device described herein in . It should be understood however that the customer platforms may or may not include the functionality described herein with reference to . While connections are not shown between the various components illustrated in it should be understood that some none or all of the components illustrated in can be configured to interact with one other to carry out various device functions. In some embodiments the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . Thus it should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which various aspects of embodiments can be implemented and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

As illustrated in the mobile device can include a display for displaying data. According to various embodiments the display can be configured to display asset information asset tag or asset ID information asset management account information various graphical user interface GUI elements text images video virtual keypads and or keyboards messaging data notification messages metadata internet content device status time date calendar data device preferences map and location data combinations thereof and or the like. The mobile device also can include a processor and a memory or other data storage device memory . The processor can be configured to process data and or can execute computer executable instructions stored in the memory . The computer executable instructions executed by the processor can include for example an operating system one or more applications such as one or more of the applications other computer executable instructions stored in the memory or the like. In some embodiments the applications also can include a UI application not illustrated in .

The applications may include a mobile client that enables the mobile device to make open API calls to the security software service platform for seamless provisioning of security services provided through the security software service platform on the mobile device . The mobile client in some embodiments is a lite weight client.

As explained above the increased adoption by companies of a bring your own device policy introduces some security concerns. For example allowing an employee to bring his or her smartphone device to work and allowing that device to connect to their company s wireless local area network may introduce malicious software into the company s internal network often unbeknownst to the employee. With tens hundreds or even thousands of devices interacting with a company s internal network on a daily basis the number of possible security threats from each individual device let alone any malicious software or rogue code operating within what is perceived to be legitimate software is likely to increase significantly and is therefore further reason to move away from the inflexible nature of the current perimeter based security model. By loading the mobile client onto the mobile device an enterprise can automate provisioning of the mobile device other like devices and services on these devices as well as enable traffic encryption and routing through a network based security node deployed within the distributed computing environment and controlled by the security software service platform .

The UI application can interface with the operating system to facilitate user interaction with functionality and or data stored at the mobile device and or stored elsewhere. In some embodiments the operating system can include a member of the SYMBIAN OS family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED a member of the WINDOWS MOBILE OS and or WINDOWS PHONE OS families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION a member of the PALM WEBOS family of operating systems from HEWLETT PACKARD CORPORATION a member of the BLACKBERRY OS family of operating systems from RESEARCH IN MOTION LIMITED a member of the IOS family of operating systems from APPLE INC. a member of the ANDROID OS family of operating systems from GOOGLE INC. and or other operating systems. These operating systems are merely illustrative of some contemplated operating systems that may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein and therefore should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The UI application can be executed by the processor to aid a user in entering content scanning or capturing asset ID or asset tag information creating new asset tags or asset ID numbers viewing asset information and or account information answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords for device access configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings multimode interaction interacting with other applications and otherwise facilitating user interaction with the operating system the applications and or other types or instances of data that can be stored at the mobile device . The data can include for example asset information asset tags and or asset identifiers and or other applications or program modules. According to various embodiments the data can include for example presence applications visual voice mail applications messaging applications text to speech and speech to text applications add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location based service applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications the data and or portions thereof can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware also can store code for execution during device power up and power down operations. It can be appreciated that the firmware can be stored in a volatile or non volatile data storage device including but not limited to the memory and or a portion thereof.

The mobile device also can include an input output I O interface . The I O interface can be configured to support the input output of data such as location information asset information user information organization information presence status information user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface can include a hardwire connection such as a universal serial bus USB port a mini USB port a micro USB port an audio jack a PS2 port an IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE port a serial port a parallel port an Ethernet RJ411 port an RJ11 port a proprietary port combinations thereof or the like. In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to synchronize with another device to transfer content to and or from the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device can be configured to receive updates to one or more of the applications via the I O interface though this is not necessarily the case. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts I O devices such as keyboards keypads mice interface tethers printers plotters external storage touch multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices displays projectors medical equipment e.g. stethoscopes heart monitors and other health metric monitors modems routers external power sources docking stations combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface may be used for communications between the mobile device and a network device or local device.

The mobile device also can include a communications component . The communications component can be configured to interface with the processor to facilitate wired and or wireless communications with one or more networks such as the network described herein. In some embodiments other networks include networks that utilize non cellular wireless technologies such as WI FI or WIMAX. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for facilitating communications via the cellular network and one or more other networks.

The communications component in some embodiments includes one or more transceivers. The one or more transceivers if included can be configured to communicate over the same and or different wireless technology standards with respect to one another. For example in some embodiments one or more of the transceivers of the communications component may be configured to communicate using GSM CDMAONE CDMA2000 LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technology standards. Moreover the communications component may facilitate communications over various channel access methods which may or may not be used by the aforementioned standards including but not limited to TDMA FDMA W CDMA OFDM SDMA and the like.

In addition the communications component may facilitate data communications using GPRS EDGE the HSPA protocol family including HSDPA EUL or otherwise termed HSUPA HSPA and various other current and future wireless data access standards. In the illustrated embodiment the communications component can include a first transceiver TxRx A that can operate in a first communications mode e.g. GSM . The communications component also can include an Ntransceiver TxRx N that can operate in a second communications mode relative to the first transceiver A e.g. UMTS . While two transceivers A N hereinafter collectively and or generically referred to as transceivers are shown in it should be appreciated that less than two two and or more than two transceivers can be included in the communications component .

The communications component also can include an alternative transceiver Alt TxRx for supporting other types and or standards of communications. According to various contemplated embodiments the alternative transceiver can communicate using various communications technologies such as for example WI FI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC other RF technologies combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also can facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks internet based radio service networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as the Internet an intranet a broadband network a WI FI hotspot an Internet service provider ISP a digital subscriber line DSL provider a broadband provider combinations thereof or the like.

The mobile device also can include one or more sensors . The sensors can include temperature sensors light sensors air quality sensors movement sensors orientation sensors noise sensors proximity sensors or the like. As such it should be understood that the sensors can include but are not limited to accelerometers magnetometers gyroscopes infrared sensors noise sensors microphones combinations thereof or the like. Additionally audio capabilities for the mobile device may be provided by an audio I O component . The audio I O component of the mobile device can include one or more speakers for the output of audio signals one or more microphones for the collection and or input of audio signals and or other audio input and or output devices.

The illustrated mobile device also can include a subscriber identity module SIM system . The SIM system can include a universal SIM USIM a universal integrated circuit card UICC and or other identity devices. The SIM system can include and or can be connected to or inserted into an interface such as a slot interface . In some embodiments the slot interface can be configured to accept insertion of other identity cards or modules for accessing various types of networks. Additionally or alternatively the slot interface can be configured to accept multiple subscriber identity cards. Because other devices and or modules for identifying users and or the mobile device are contemplated it should be understood that these embodiments are illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

The mobile device also can include an image capture and processing system image system . The image system can be configured to capture or otherwise obtain photos videos and or other visual information. As such the image system can include cameras lenses charge coupled devices CCDs combinations thereof or the like. The mobile device may also include a video system . The video system can be configured to capture process record modify and or store video content. Photos and videos obtained using the image system and the video system respectively may be added as message content to an MMS message email message and sent to another mobile device. The video and or photo content also can be shared with other devices via various types of data transfers via wired and or wireless communication devices as described herein.

The mobile device also can include one or more location components . The location components can be configured to send and or receive signals to determine a geographic location of the mobile device . According to various embodiments the location components can send and or receive signals from global positioning system GPS devices assisted GPS A GPS devices WI FI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like. The location component also can be configured to communicate with the communications component to retrieve triangulation data for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component can interface with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component can include and or can communicate with one or more of the sensors such as a compass an accelerometer and or a gyroscope to determine the orientation of the mobile device . Using the location component the mobile device can generate and or receive data to identify its geographic location or to transmit data used by other devices to determine the location of the mobile device . The location component may include multiple components for determining the location and or orientation of the mobile device .

The illustrated mobile device also can include a power source . The power source can include one or more batteries power supplies power cells and or other power subsystems including alternating current AC and or direct current DC power devices. The power source also can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . Because the mobile device can include additional and or alternative components the above embodiment should be understood as being illustrative of one possible operating environment for various embodiments of the concepts and technologies described herein. The described embodiment of the mobile device is illustrative and should not be construed as being limiting in any way.

Referring now to a method for enabling a mobile device to make open API calls to the security software service platform will be described according to an illustrative embodiment. The method is described as being performed by one of the customer platforms that is configured as a mobile device such as for example the mobile device .

The method begins at operation wherein the customer platform launches a mobile client. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the customer platform connects to the security software service platform via the mobile client. From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the mobile client calls an API exposed by the security software service platform to enable provisioning of the customer platform as well as network based security features to enforce one or more policies on the customer platform wherein the customer platform is utilized as a bring your own device device.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the customer platform receives instructions to enable traffic encryption for traffic originating from and terminating at the customer platform . In addition the customer platform receives instructions for routing traffic originating from the customer platform to a security node operating within the distributed computing environment at the control of the security software service platform wherein the security node is operated as part of a security service provided by one or more security service providers.

From operation the method proceeds to operation wherein the customer platform sends traffic to the security node operating within the distributed computing environment at the control of the security software service platform . From operation the method proceeds to operation . The method ends at operation .

The computer system includes a processing unit a memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more network devices each of which is operatively connected to a system bus . The bus enables bi directional communication between the processing unit the memory the user interface devices the I O devices and the network devices .

The processing unit may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. Processing units are generally known and therefore are not described in further detail herein.

The memory communicates with the processing unit via the system bus . In some embodiments the memory is operatively connected to a memory controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The memory includes an operating system and one or more program modules . The operating system can include but is not limited to members of the WINDOWS WINDOWS CE and or WINDOWS MOBILE families of operating systems from MICROSOFT CORPORATION the LINUX family of operating systems the SYMBIAN family of operating systems from SYMBIAN LIMITED the BREW family of operating systems from QUALCOMM CORPORATION the MAC OS iOS and or LEOPARD families of operating systems from APPLE CORPORATION the FREEBSD family of operating systems the SOLARIS family of operating systems from ORACLE CORPORATION other operating systems and the like.

The program modules may include various software and or program modules described herein. In some embodiments for example the program modules include program modules for operating the security software service platform or any of the computing resources of the distributed computing environment . This and or other programs can be embodied in computer readable media containing instructions that when executed by the processing unit perform one or more of the methods described in detail above with respect to . According to embodiments the program modules may be embodied in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although not shown in it should be understood that the memory also can be configured to store the various data such as the configuration data described in as being stored in the configuration data store if desired.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include any available computer storage media or communication media that can be accessed by the computer system . Communication media includes computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics changed or set in a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer system . In the claims the phrase computer storage medium and variations thereof does not include waves or signals per se and or communication media.

The user interface devices may include one or more devices with which a user accesses the computer system . The user interface devices may include but are not limited to computers servers personal digital assistants cellular phones or any suitable computing devices. The I O devices enable a user to interface with the program modules . In one embodiment the I O devices are operatively connected to an I O controller not shown that enables communication with the processing unit via the system bus . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as but not limited to a keyboard a mouse or an electronic stylus. Further the I O devices may include one or more output devices such as but not limited to a display screen or a printer.

The network devices enable the computer system to communicate with other networks or remote systems via a network such as the network . Examples of the network devices include but are not limited to a modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router or a network card. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN or a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN .

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that systems and methods for decoupling hardware and software components of network security devices to provide security software as a service in a distributed computing environment have been disclosed herein. Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological and transformative acts specific computing machinery and computer readable media it is to be understood that the concepts and technologies disclosed herein are not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

The subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein.

