---

title: Prioritized push-to-talk session using quality of service (QoS) over an internet protocol multimedia subsystem (IMS)
abstract: A device establishes a quality of service (QoS) framework with a network connected to the device. The device includes a push-to-talk (PTT) application, and the QoS framework assigns priorities to different types of traffic associated with the device. The device utilizes the PTT application to establish a PTT session with another device via the network, and prioritizes, based on the QoS framework, PTT traffic, provided in the PTT session, over best effort traffic during the PTT session with the other device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491596&OS=09491596&RS=09491596
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09491596
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131018
---
A push to talk PTT service provides direct one to one and or one to many audio communication. PTT may include a mechanism that provides instantaneous communication between parties and that utilizes a button to switch user equipment UE from a voice transmission mode to a voice reception mode. The operation of UEs in this manner may be similar to how walkie talkies operate. A PTT service may switch a UE from a full duplex mode where both parties may hear each other simultaneously to a half duplex mode where a single party may speak at one time. Multiple parties to a conversation may also be included. Availabilities of parties may be checked before a call with the help of a presence function.

In the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP the fourth generation 4G cellular network includes an evolved packet system EPS . The EPS may include a radio access network e.g. referred to as a long term evolution LTE network a wireless core network e.g. referred to as an evolved packet core EPC network an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS network and a packet data network PDN . The LTE network is often called an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN . The EPC network is an all IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. The EPC network allows UEs to access various services by connecting to the LTE network an evolved high rate packet data eHRPD radio access network RAN and or a wireless local area network WLAN RAN. The IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services. The PDN may include a communications network that is based on packet switching.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Current 4G PTT applications use a public Internet connection with no quality of service QoS for PTT services. Without QoS a user s PTT experience may degrade when a network or a UE is busy and PTT traffic is queued up behind other traffic e.g. email video Internet etc. traffic . The user experience may be exemplified in what is called a push to hear delay which measures how quickly a user hears a beep after pushing the PTT button and how quickly the user s voice reaches a called party. Current 4G PTT applications have push to hear delays of approximately 1.5 to 2 seconds which creates a poor user experience.

As further shown in the PTT application in both the first UE and the second UE may be enhanced to improve the PTT session. For example the first UE and the second UE may utilize the IMS network of the EPS rather than the public Internet to establish and conduct PTT sessions. Unlike the public Internet the IMS network may permit the first UE and the second UE to utilize QoS with respect to PTT sessions. In some implementations the QoS may include prioritizing PTT traffic over other types of traffic such as for example email video and Internet traffic.

As further shown the first UE and the second UE may be enhanced by permitting the first UE and the second UE to modify a Discontinuous Receive DRX cycle timer. The DRX cycle timer may include a timer that dictates when a UE checks a network for traffic. For example a UE may check a network for traffic after expiration of the DRX cycle timer. In some implementations the first UE and the second UE may decrease the DRX cycle timer e.g. relative to what is used in public Internet based PTT so that the first UE and the second UE check the EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently. This may enable the first UE and the second UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from the EPS and to become aware of incoming PTT calls faster which may result in shorter initial call setup times e.g. relative to public Internet based PTT .

As further shown in the first UE and the second UE may be enhanced by permitting the first UE and the second UE to modify frame bundling of PTT traffic. Frame bundling may include combining packets into longer frames so that a number of frames and therefore the overhead may be reduced on a network. In some implementations the first UE and the second UE may modify a number of PTT packets that are bundled together in order to optimize latency across the EPS. For example the first UE and the second UE may decrease the number of PTT packets that are bundled together in order to improve latency and or voice quality.

In example implementation assume that the first user utilizes the PTT application of the first UE to establish a PTT session with the second UE and the second user. As shown in the PTT enhancements to the first UE and the second UE may improve a call setup time for establishing the PTT session and may improve a latency time associated with the PTT session. Thus the first user and the second user may establish and conduct the PTT session without the significant delays provided in current 4G PTT applications.

Such PTT enhancements may permit prioritization of PTT traffic over other types of traffic such as email video Internet etc. traffic. This may provide improved PTT call setup time and or latency time over current 4G PTT implementations which may improve the PTT user experience. For example the PTT enhancements may provide push to hear delays of approximately less than one second.

As further shown in eNB may connect with MME over a S1 MME interface and may connect with SGW over a S1 U interface. MME may connect with SGW over a S11 interface and may connect with HSS over a S6a interface. SGW may connect with PGW over a S5 interface. PCRF may connect with PGW over a Gx interface. PGW may connect with PDN over a SGi interface and may connect with P CSCF . Other connections not shown in may also be utilized by EPS . For example multiple MMEs may connect with one another over S10 interfaces.

UE may include a device that is capable of communicating over LTE network EPC network and or IMS network . In some implementations UE may include a radiotelephone a PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a PDA that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a workstation computer a personal computer a landline telephone or another type of computation and communication device.

EPS may include is a core network architecture of the 3GPP LTE wireless communication standard. EPS may include LTE network EPC network IMS network and PDN .

LTE network may include a communications network that connects users e.g. UE to a service provider network. In some implementations LTE network may include a wireless local area network WLAN or another type of access network e.g. an E UTRAN or an eHRPD network . In some implementations LTE network may include a radio access network capable of providing a particular data rate a particular latency packet optimization a particular capacity and coverage etc.

eNB may include one or more computation and communication devices such as a base station that receive traffic from MME and or SGW and transmit that traffic to UE . eNB may also include one or more devices that receive traffic from UE and transmit that traffic to MME and or SGW or to other UEs . eNB may combine the functionalities of a base station and a radio network controller RNC in 2G or 3G radio access networks.

EPC network may include an IP packet switched core network that supports high speed wireless and wireline broadband access technologies. In some implementations EPC network may provide packet switched voice services e.g. which are traditionally circuit switched using IMS network and PDN .

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that may be responsible for idle mode tracking and paging procedures e.g. including retransmissions for UE . MME may be involved in a bearer activation deactivation process e.g. for UE and may choose a SGW for UE at an initial attach and at a time of intra LTE handover. In some implementations MME may authenticate UE . Non access stratum NAS signaling may terminate at MME and MME may generate and allocate temporary identities to UEs . MME may check authorization of UE to utilize LTE network and may enforce roaming restrictions for UE . MME may be a termination point in EPC network for ciphering integrity protection for NAS signaling and may handle security key management. MME may provide a control plane function for mobility between LTE network and other access networks with a S3 interface terminating at MME .

SGW may include one or more devices that route and forward user data packets may act as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter eNB handovers and may act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies. For idle state UEs SGW may terminate a downlink data path and may trigger paging when downlink data arrives for UE . SGW may manage and store contexts associated with UE e.g. parameters of an IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. . In some implementations SGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic.

PCRF may include one or more computation and communication devices that provide policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities. PCRF may provide network control regarding service data flow detection gating QoS and flow based charging etc. In some implementations PCRF may determine how a certain service data flow shall be treated and may ensure that user plane traffic mapping and treatment is in accordance with a user s subscription profile.

PGW may include one or more devices that provide connectivity of UE to external packet data networks by being a traffic exit entry point for UE . UE may simultaneously connect to more than one PGW for accessing multiple PDNs . PGW may perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful intercept and packet screening. PGW may also act as an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies. In some implementations PGW may include one or more traffic transfer devices or network devices such as a gateway a router a switch a firewall a NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic.

IMS network may include an architectural framework or network e.g. a telecommunications network for delivering IP multimedia services. In some implementations IMS network may include a standardized reference architecture that provides session control a connection control and an applications services framework and user and services data.

HSS may include one or more computation and communication devices that provide a master user database that supports devices of IMS network that handle calls. HSS may contain subscription related information e.g. user profiles may perform authentication and authorization of a user and may provide information about a user s location and IP information.

P CSCF may include one or more computation and communication devices that function as a proxy server for UE where SIP signaling traffic to and from UE may go through P CSCF . In some implementations P CSCF may validate and then forward requests from UE and may process and forward responses to UE .

PDN may include one or more data communications networks that are based on packet switching as opposed to circuit switching that is used in public telephone networks. In some implementations PDN may be capable of communicating with UE over IMS network .

The number of devices and or networks shown in is provided as an example. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks or differently arranged devices and or networks than those shown in . Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit etc. a microprocessor and or any processing component e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions and or that is designed to implement a particular function. In some implementations processor may include multiple processor cores for parallel computing. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage component e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter which enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface a high definition multimedia interface HDMI or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided as an example. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include modifying a UE to expose an IMS PDN application programming interface API and a DRX cycle API to a PTT application block . For example UE may include a PTT application that enables UE to establish and conduct PTT sessions with other UEs . In some implementations UE may include an IMS PDN API that enables UE to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network as opposed to over the public Internet. For example the IMS PDN API may enable the PTT application to make a data connection with PDN over IMS network . In some implementations UE may include several hidden or unexposed APIs that may not be viewed or altered by applications provided in UE . However the IMS PDN API may be exposed by UE so that the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network .

In some implementations UE may include a DRX cycle API that controls a DRX cycle timer associated with UE . The DRX cycle timer may include a timer that dictates when UE checks a network for traffic e.g. UE may check a network for traffic after expiration of the DRX cycle timer . In some implementations the DRX cycle API may be exposed by UE so that the PTT application may modify the DRX cycle timer. For example UE may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently. This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS .

As further shown in process may include providing secure access to the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API to enable use and or modification of the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API by the PTT application block . For example UE may include a security application that provides secure access to exposed APIs in UE . In some implementations the security application may provide secure access to the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API by the PTT application. In some implementations the security application may prevent unauthorized applications from accessing the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API.

For example the security application may include authentication credentials e.g. a certificate a signature an authentication key a security token etc. that may be utilized to authenticate applications attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. The security application may request that a particular application attempting to access the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API provide authentication credentials. If the authentication credentials provided by the particular application match the authentication credentials of the security application the security application may authenticate the particular application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. If the authentication credentials provided by the particular application fail to match the authentication credentials of the security application the security application may not authenticate the particular application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API.

In some implementations the PTT application may be installed in UE by a manufacturer of UE by a network service provider or may be downloaded and installed in UE by a user of UE . When the PTT application is installed in UE the PTT application may be provided with authentication credentials that match the authentication credentials of the security application. Therefore the security application may authenticate the PTT application for accessing the IMS PDN API and or the DRX cycle API. When the PTT application is authenticated for access to the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API the PTT application may utilize and or modify the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish a data connection e.g. set up data routes with PDN over IMS network . The PTT application may utilize the data connection over IMS network to implement a QoS framework for PTT traffic associated with the PTT application.

In some implementations when the PTT application is installed in UE or when UE receives a tracking area update TAU e.g. a TAU may be performed periodically or when UE moves to another set of cells or tracking area from EPS the PTT application may access the DRX cycle API in order to modify the DRX cycle API. For example the PTT application may modify the DRX cycle timer provided in the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently e.g. every so many milliseconds seconds minutes etc. . This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS such as an incoming PTT call which may result in shorter call setup times e.g. relative to public Internet based PTT .

In some implementations the PTT application may restore the DRX cycle timer to a configurable default value based on particular conditions. For example the PTT application may restore the DRX cycle timer to the default value when UE is connected to an access network other than LTE network . In such an example the PTT application may modify the DRX cycle timer again when UE reconnects to LTE network .

In some implementations if the PTT application is removed or uninstalled from UE or if the PTT application is turned off or disabled e.g. by the user the security application may reset the DRX cycle timer to a configurable default value that may reduce battery usage in UE . For example the default value of the DRX cycle timer may include a value that causes UE to check EPS for traffic less frequently which may conserve battery usage in UE . In some implementations the security application may read a default DRX value that is being broadcasted by EPS and may use the default DRX value to change the DRX cycle timer of UE to the default value. This may reset the DRX cycle timer of UE to a default value which EPS wants devices to use e.g. when using the default value . In some implementations if the PTT application is turned on or enabled e.g. by the user the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently e.g. every so many milliseconds seconds minutes etc. .

In some implementations if the PTT application is removed from UE or if the PTT application is turned off or disabled e.g. by the user the security application may remove any data routes set up by the PTT application via the IMS PDN API. In some implementations if the PTT application is turned on or enabled e.g. by the user the PTT application may utilize the IMS PDN API to establish another data connection e.g. set up data routes with PDN over IMS network .

As further shown in process may include utilizing a QoS framework to assign priority to PTT traffic from the PTT application block . For example UE may utilize a QoS framework to assign priority to PTT traffic associated with the PTT application. In some implementations since the IMS PDN API may permit the PTT application to establish a data connection with PDN over IMS network the PTT application may utilize the data connection over IMS network to implement a QoS framework for PTT traffic associated with the PTT application. For example the PTT application may prioritize PTT traffic over best effort traffic such as for example email traffic video traffic Internet traffic etc. as PTT traffic traverses IMS network and PDN . In some implementations QoS bearers may be defined in IMS network and may be set up statically when UE registers with IMS network . In some implementations the QoS bearers may be set up dynamically when UE utilizes the PTT application to make a PTT call.

In some implementations the PTT traffic may be prioritized after guaranteed bit rate GBR conversational audio e.g. voice over IP VoIP traffic before non GBR variable bit rate video traffic before non GBR standard video telephony video streaming and general best effort traffic and before non GBR machine to machine M2M traffic. By prioritizing the PTT traffic over the non GBR traffic the PTT application may reduce latency times associated with PTT sessions.

As further shown in process may include providing an API that indicates network currently associated with the UE block . For example UE may include an MCC MNC API that notifies the PTT application about a mobile country code MCC and a mobile network code MNC currently associated with UE . A MCC may include a short numeric code that identifies a country of a particular location and MNC may include a short numeric code that identifies a particular mobile network operator. The combination of a MCC and a MNC e.g. a MCC MNC tuple may be used to uniquely identify a network to which UE is currently connected. In some implementations the MCC MNC API may notify the PTT application about the network to which UE is currently connected. In some implementations when the MCC MNC tuple changes and indicates that UE is connected to a different network the PTT application may utilize the DRX cycle API to restore the DRX cycle timer to the default value.

As further shown in process may include granting or restricting use of the PTT application based on the network block . For example the PTT application may utilize the MCC MNC tuple to identify the network to which UE is currently connected. In some implementations the PTT application may permit or prevent use of the PTT application based on the network to which UE is currently connected. For example the PTT application may permit use of the PTT application when the MCC MNC tuple indicates that UE is currently connected to LTE network . The PTT application may prevent use of the PTT application when the MCC MNC tuple indicates that UE is roaming or is currently connected to a wireless local area network WLAN such as for example an IEEE 802.11 e.g. Wi Fi network.

As further shown in process may include permitting a user datagram protocol UDP voice application to execute in the background block . For example UE may be provisioned to permit a UDP voice application to execute in the background of UE under all conditions. In some implementations the UDP voice application may include a VoIP application such as for example Skype iChat Gizmo etc. In some implementations UE may continuously execute the UDP voice application in the background of UE may not suspend the UDP voice application when UE enters sleep mode and may not terminate the UDP voice application when the user quits the UDP voice application. This may ensure that the UDP voice application is available for the PTT application under all conditions e.g. after device power up and will make the PTT application aware of incoming PTT calls.

As further shown in process may include modifying frame bundling of PTT traffic block . For example the PTT application of UE may be permitted to modify frame bundling of PTT traffic. Frame bundling may include combining packets into longer frames so that a number of frames and therefore the overhead may be reduced on a network. In some implementations the PTT application may modify a number of PTT packets that are bundled together in order to optimize latency across EPS . For example the PTT application may decrease the number of PTT packets that are bundled together in frames in order to improve latency and or voice quality. In some implementations frame bundling of PTT traffic may involve balancing between bundling too many packets together in one frame e.g. which may result in the PTT application s jitter buffer overflowing and not bundling enough packets together in one frame e.g. which may result in the PTT application s jitter buffer emptying too quickly both of which may result in degraded voice.

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in UE may include a security application that determines whether an application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . Security application may include a signature that is utilized to authenticate applications attempting to access IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . As further shown in PTT application may provide a signature to security application and another application may provide another signature to security application . Assume that security application determines that the signature provided by PTT application matches the signature of security application . Accordingly security application may determine that PTT application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API and may provide this information to an operating system of UE . Further assume that security application determines that the other signature provided by the other application does not match the signature of security application . Accordingly security application may determine that the other application is not authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API and may provide this information to the operating system.

As further shown in PTT application may provide an access request to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API and IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API may check based on access request with the operating system to determine whether PTT application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . Since PTT application is authenticated PTT application may be granted access to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . The other application may provide another access request to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API may check based on the other access request with the operating system to determine whether the other application is authenticated for accessing IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API . Since the other application is not authenticated the other application may be denied access to IMS PDN API and or DRX cycle API .

With reference to UE may utilize a QoS framework to assign priority to PTT traffic associated with PTT application . As shown in a first QoS framework may include a framework with an application type field a quality control index QCI field and a bearer characteristics field. First QoS framework may prioritize traffic associated with EPS but may not implement QoS for PTT traffic. For example IMS signaling session initiation protocol SIP signaling and other signaling may be prioritized first VoIP and the audio part of video telephony may be prioritized second enhanced video telephony may be prioritized third public safety data applications and enterprise user traffic may be prioritized fourth best effort Internet traffic and standard video telephony may be prioritized fifth and slightly less than best effort Internet traffic and M2M traffic may be prioritized sixth. Without QoS PTT traffic may be prioritized fifth with the best effort Internet traffic and the standard video telephony.

As further shown in a second QoS framework may prioritize traffic associated with EPS and may implement QoS for PTT traffic. For example PTT IMS signaling SIP signaling and other signaling may be prioritized first VoIP and the audio part of video telephony may still be prioritized second enhanced video telephony may still be prioritized third public safety data applications enterprise user traffic and PTT traffic may be prioritized fourth best effort Internet traffic and standard video telephony may still be prioritized fifth and slightly less than best effort Internet traffic and M2M traffic may still be prioritized sixth. With QoS PTT traffic may be prioritized second e.g. for IMS signaling and fourth with the public safety data applications and the enterprise user traffic. Thus UE may prioritize PTT traffic over the best effort traffic such as for example email traffic video traffic Internet traffic etc. as PTT traffic traverses IMS network and PDN .

As shown in UE may include a MCC MNC API that notifies PTT application about a MCC and a MNC currently associated with UE . MCC MNC API may receive a MCC and a MNC e.g. a MCC MNC tuple from EPS and may utilize the MCC MNC tuple to identify a network to which UE is currently connected. MCC MNC API may notify PTT application about the network to which UE is currently connected as further shown in . PTT application may permit or prevent use of PTT application based on the network to which UE is currently connected. For example as indicated by reference number in PTT application may be disabled when UE is roaming or is currently connected to a WLAN such as a Wi Fi network.

As shown in UE may include a UDP voice application and may permit UDP voice application to continuously execute in the background of UE as indicated by reference number . As further shown in PTT application may utilize frame bundling of PTT traffic to generate bundled PTT traffic and may provide bundled PTT traffic to EPS . PTT application may modify a number of PTT packets that are bundled together in order to optimize latency across EPS .

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

As shown in process may include reducing a DRX cycle timer with a PTT application block . For example the PTT application of UE may access the DRX cycle API and may reduce the DRX cycle timer provided in the DRX cycle API. In some implementations the security application may provide secure access to the DRX cycle API by the PTT application. In some implementations the PTT application may decrease the DRX cycle timer so that UE checks EPS for traffic e.g. PTT traffic more frequently e.g. every so many milliseconds seconds minutes etc. . This may enable UE to more quickly receive PTT traffic from EPS such as an incoming PTT call which may result in shorter call setup times e.g. relative to public Internet based PTT .

As further shown in process may include establishing a QoS framework with a network for prioritizing PTT traffic block . For example UE may connect to PDN over IMS network and via LTE network and EPC network . In some implementations the PTT application of UE may establish a QoS framework with EPS e.g. with IMS network that prioritizes PTT traffic associated with the PTT application. For example the PTT application may prioritize PTT traffic over best effort traffic e.g. email traffic video traffic Internet traffic etc. as the PTT traffic traverses IMS network and PDN .

As further shown in process may include receiving best effort traffic block . For example a user may utilize UE to create and send an email e.g. email traffic browse the Internet e.g. Internet traffic stream a video e.g. video traffic etc. The email traffic the Internet traffic and the video traffic may be referred to as best effort traffic. In some implementations UE may generate the best effort traffic and may provide the best effort traffic to EPS . In some implementations UE may receive the best effort traffic by for example receiving an email receiving a video receiving a web page from the Internet etc.

As further shown in process may include utilizing a PTT application to establish a PTT session with a UE block . For example the user may instruct UE to execute the PTT application and the user may utilize the PTT application to establish a PTT session with another UE . In some implementations the PTT application may display a list of available PTT contacts associated with the user and the user may select a PTT contact associated with the other UE from the list. When the user selects the PTT contact the PTT application may cause UE to generate a PTT call destined for the other UE . In some implementations UE may provide the PTT call to the other UE via EPS . If the PTT contact accepts the PTT call a PTT session may be established between UE and the other UE . If the PTT contact does not accept the PTT call a PTT session may not be established between UE and the other UE .

In some implementations UE may receive a PTT call from the other UE and may execute the PTT application based on receiving the PTT call. Based on the PTT call the PTT application may display information indicating that the other UE is trying to establish a PTT session with UE . If the user accepts the PTT call a PTT session may be established between UE and the other UE . If the user does not accept the PTT call a PTT session may not be established between UE and the other UE .

As further shown in process may include utilizing frame bundling for PTT traffic in the PTT session block . For example the PTT application of UE may utilize frame bundling for PTT traffic associated with the PTT session with the other UE . In some implementations a PTT application of the other UE may also utilize frame bundling for PTT traffic associated with the PTT session. In some implementations the PTT applications may modify a number of PTT packets that are bundled together in order to optimize latency across EPS for the PTT session. For example the PTT applications may decrease the number of PTT packets that are bundled together in frames in order to improve latency and or voice quality for the PTT session.

As further shown in process may include prioritizing the PTT traffic during the PTT session and based on the QoS framework block . For example during the PTT session UE may prioritize the PTT traffic over other traffic e.g. best effort traffic based on the QoS framework established with EPS . In some implementations during the PTT session the other UE may also prioritize the PTT traffic over any best effort traffic associated with the other UE based on the QoS framework established with EPS . In some implementations the PTT traffic in the PTT session with the other UE may be prioritized before non GBR traffic such as for example variable bit rate video traffic standard video telephony traffic video streaming traffic general best effort traffic and M2M traffic. By prioritizing the PTT traffic over the non GBR traffic the PTT application may reduce latency times associated with PTT session with the other UE .

In some implementations the combination of the reduced DRX cycle timer the QoS framework for PTT traffic and the frame bundling of PTT traffic may provide improved PTT call setup time and or latency time over current 4G PTT implementations which may improve the PTT user experience for the users of UE and the other UE . For example the combination may enable the user of UE to experience push to hear delays of approximately less than one second during the PTT session with the other UE . In some implementations the combination may enable the user of the other UE to experience push to hear delays of approximately less than one second during the PTT session with UE .

As further shown in process may include ending the PTT session with the UE block . For example the user of UE may end the PTT session with the other UE by selecting a mechanism e.g. an end call button icon link etc. displayed by the PTT application during the PTT session. In some implementations when the user of UE selects the end call mechanism UE may terminate the PTT session with the other UE and may display information associated with the PTT application to the user. In some implementations UE may display other information e.g. best effort traffic a home page etc. to the user when the PTT session is terminated. In some implementations the user of the other UE may end the PTT session with UE .

Although shows example blocks of process in some implementations process may include additional blocks fewer blocks different blocks or differently arranged blocks than those depicted in . Additionally or alternatively two or more of the blocks of process may be performed in parallel.

As shown in while the user is creating email message smart phone may check EPS for information e.g. received calls traffic etc. based on a DRX cycle timer associated with smart phone as indicated by reference number . Assume that smart phone previously modified the DRX cycle timer so that smart phone checks EPS for information more frequently. As further shown in a coworker of the user may be associated with a tablet computer and may utilize tablet computer to access a PTT application provided in tablet computer . Assume that the coworker utilizes the PTT application to generate a request for a PTT session with the user and smart phone . Tablet computer may provide request for the PTT session to EPS and EPS may forward request toward smart phone utilizing the QoS framework.

When request is received by smart phone smart phone may execute a PTT application provided in smart phone and may stop displaying email message . The PTT application may cause smart phone to display information associated with request such as the coworker s name the coworker s picture a mechanism to accept or deny request etc. Assume that the user utilizes the displayed information to accept request and establish a PTT session with tablet computer and the coworker as indicated by reference number in . When the PTT session is established the PTT application may cause smart phone to display a user interface that includes a picture of coworker a PTT button and an end call button. As further shown in the PTT application of smart phone may utilize frame bundling for PTT traffic associated with the PTT session as indicated by reference number .

As shown in assume that the user selects the PTT button and begins talking to smart phone as indicated by reference number . The user s spoken voice may be provided by smart phone to tablet computer e.g. via EPS and may be output e.g. as audio by tablet computer to the coworker as indicated by reference number . As further shown in a delay time between when the user speaks and when the coworker hears the user s voice may be approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number .

As shown in assume that the coworker selects the PTT button and begins talking to tablet computer as indicated by reference number . The coworker s spoken voice may be provided by tablet computer to smart phone e.g. via EPS and may be output e.g. as audio by smart phone to the user as indicated by reference number . As further shown in a delay time between when the coworker speaks and when the user hears the coworker s voice may be approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number .

Either the user or the coworker may end the PTT session by selecting the end call button. When the end call button is selected smart phone and tablet computer may end the PTT session as indicated by reference number in . As further shown after the PTT session ends smart phone may resume displaying email message to the user and tablet computer may display a home page or some other information to the coworker.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

When the user selects the icon associated with the PTT application smart phone may execute the PTT application. The PTT application may cause smart phone to display a user interface associated with the PTT application as shown in . User interface may include a list of PTT contacts associated with the user and a variety of information associated with the PTT contacts. The list of PTT contacts and the information associated with the PTT contacts may be stored locally in smart phone e.g. in memory and or may be stored in a device separate from and accessible by smart phone . A first PTT contact e.g. Joe may include information about the availability or presence of the first PTT contact e.g. Joe may be available and contact information associated with the first PTT contact e.g. an address a telephone number a profile etc. . A second PTT contact e.g. Brian may be unavailable and a third PTT contact e.g. Betty may be available. As further shown in assume that the user selects Joe from the list of PTT contacts as indicated by reference number .

When the user selects Joe from the list of PTT contacts the PTT application may cause smart phone to establish a PTT session with Joe s UE . Once the PTT session is established the PTT application may cause smart phone to display a user interface that includes a picture of Joe a PTT button and an end call button as shown in . As further shown in assume that the user selects the PTT button and begins talking to smart phone . The user s spoken voice may be provided by smart phone to Joe s UE e.g. via EPS and using the QoS framework and may be output by Joe s UE e.g. as audio in approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number .

Now assume that Joe selects a PTT button and begins talking to Joe s UE . Joe s spoken voice may be provided by Joe s UE to smart phone e.g. via EPS and may be output by smart phone e.g. as audio in approximately less than one second as indicated by reference number in . When the user is finished with the PTT session with Joe assume that the user selects the end call button as indicated by reference number in . When the end call button is selected smart phone may end the PTT session and may resume displaying user interface e.g. the list of PTT contacts to the user as shown in to permit the user to initiate another PTT call.

As indicated above are provided merely as an example. Other examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to .

To the extent the aforementioned implementations collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

A component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Implementations of the security application are described herein with respect to a PTT application and to particular APIs exposed for the purpose of enhancing the PTT application. However the security application may be utilized to provide secure access to one or more exposed APIs of the UE other than the particular exposed APIs described herein e.g. the IMS PDN API and the DRX cycle API . For example the security application may be utilized to grant or deny the PTT application and or one or more other applications of the UE access to any exposed API of the UE. Furthermore although the PTT application is described herein in terms of PTT voice calls the PTT application may alternatively or additionally be utilized for PTT video calls.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Furthermore as used herein the term set is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

