---

title: Web call access and egress to private network
abstract: A system may include a Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) backend server configured to receive a request for a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) for a WebRTC call session requested by a browser application and generate the URI for the WebRTC call session; and a validation proxy configured to receive the URI from a WebRTC gateway and validate the URI with the WebRTC backend server. The WebRTC backend server may be receive a request to validate the URI from the validation proxy, determine whether the URI corresponds to a valid URI, and send a validation message to the validation proxy, if the received URI is valid. The validation proxy may generate a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) message based on the received validation message and send the generated SIP message to a contact center services system to initiate a real-time call between the contact center services system and the browser application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08861692&OS=08861692&RS=08861692
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08861692
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130515
---
Various technologies exist for the delivery of voice communication over a network. For example a provider of voice communication services may manage a network that may enable users to communicate via voice and or video calls. A user may participate in voice communication by using a dedicated device such as a telephone or by using software dedicated for voice communication such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP software. A common tool for accessing processing and navigating information on the Internet is a browser application. In order to enable voice and video communication in browser applications an application programming interface API referred to as Web Real Time Communication WebRTC has been developed.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings identify the same or similar elements.

Implementations described herein relate to Web call access and or egress to a private network. A Web call may be initiated by a user by using a browser application e.g. Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Explorer Google Chrome Apple Safari etc. configured with Web Real Time Communication WebRTC capability. A WebRTC enabled browser application may include a Web Application Programming Interface API that may interface with an audio and or video application enabled for real time communication. The Web API may interface with a WebRTC API. The WebRTC API may interface with real time communication protocols e.g. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Real Time Protocol RTP Interactive Connectivity Establishment ICE Session Traversal Utilities for Network Address Translation STUN etc. that may manage real time connections with other devices across a network.

A company may enable users to initiate a WebRTC call via a web page accessible to a user. For example a user may access the company s web page and may click on a button to activate a phone call to a customer representative. In response to clicking the button the browser application may initiate a WebRTC call to a customer representative. While the company may enable direct connection of the WebRTC call from the user s browser application to the customer representative such a direct connection may pose a number of problems. For example providing a direct WebRTC connection to a customer representative may leave the company s web site vulnerable to a denial of service DOS event. If a large number of users click on the button within a particular time period a network and or phone system that handles customer service calls may be overwhelmed.

A DOS event may be prevented by using an authorization interface on a public server. For example a caller connecting to a WebRTC gateway may be required to provide an account number and or a password and the WebRTC gateway may communicate with an authorization server e.g. an OpenID server an OAuth Server a Diameter server etc. to validate the account number and password. However a caller such as a toll free customer may not have an account number and or password and thus authorization of the caller may not be available. Rather authorization may need to be performed on the called party such as the company associated with a toll free number.

As another example the phone system that handles customer service calls may be hosted in a private network of a telephone services provider as a contact center services system. The company may pay for use of the contact center services system and may be charged for phone calls handled by the contact center services system. For example a user may dial a toll free number to speak with a customer representative may be connected to the contact center services system and the provider may charge the company for the telephone call. Thus the provider may need to enable users to reach the contact center services system via WebRTC from a browser application and may need to determine how to charge the company for the telephone call.

A customer as the term is used herein may refer to a customer such as a company or a corporate client of a provider of communication services. The provider of communication services may manage a private network that may host communication services such as a contact center for the customer. Implementations described herein relate to a system that prevents WebRTC denial of service events for a customer that enables a customer to incorporate handling of WebRTC calls into a contact center hosted in the provider s private network that enables the provider to track and bill WebRTC calls and or that enables the passing of call session data from a customer server to a contact center via a WebRTC call.

WebRTC caller may include any device with a browser application configured with WebRTC functionality. For example WebRTC caller may include a portable communication device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a global positioning system GPS device and or another type of wireless device a personal computer or workstation a server device a portable computer a television a projector a speaker or another type of a display or audio output device a set top box a gaming system and or any type of device with communication capability.

Public network may include one or more circuit switched networks and or packet switched networks. Public network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a wireless network and or any combination of these or other types of networks. Public network may include a customer web server a WebRTC access server and a WebRTC gateway .

Customer web server may include one or more computer devices such as server devices which host a web site associated with the customer. For example customer web server may include a web page with a WebRTC selection object such as a call button to enable a user to request to talk to a contact center agent. When a WebRTC call is requested by a browser application in response to a user of WebRTC caller pressing the call button customer web server may request a Uniform Resource Identifier URI from WebRTC access server and provide the URI to the browser application. The URI may direct the browser application to a contact center via WebRTC gateway . Moreover the request may include call session data that may be used by private provider network to process the WebRTC call.

Furthermore customer web server may manage contact center agents. When a contact center request to connect a call to a contact center agent is received customer web server may select a contact center agent based on the requirements associated with the request and may provide a URI to the contact center to direct the contact center to the selected contact center agent.

WebRTC access server may include one or more computer devices such as server devices which enable customer web server to communicate with a WebRTC backend system. For example WebRTC access server may receive a request for a WebRTC URI may authenticate customer web server may obtain the requested WebRTC URI from a WebRTC backend system and may forward the obtained WebRTC URI to customer web server .

WebRTC gateway may include one or more network devices that function as a gateway for provider network with respect to WebRTC calls. For example WebRTC gateway may route WebRTC calls from public network to private provider network and may route calls from private provider network to public network . WebRTC gateway may convert an incoming WebRTC call to a Session Initiation Protocol SIP call or to another type of call that is used within private provider network . Furthermore WebRTC gateway may convert an outgoing SIP call or another type of call used within private provider network into a WebRTC call in public network . WebRTC gateway may apply one or more filter rules to determine whether a particular WebRTC call connection should be allowed into private provider network .

Private provider network may include a private circuit switched network and or packet switched network. Private provider network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network a wireless network and or any combination of these or other types of networks. Private provider network may include a validation proxy a WebRTC backend system and a contact center services system .

Validation proxy may validate WebRTC URIs received from WebRTC gateway . For example WebRTC gateway may forward a WebRTC URI to validation proxy validation proxy may send the WebRTC URI to WebRTC backend system and may receive a validation message from WebRTC backend system . The validation message may include call session data and validation proxy may add the call session data to the WebRTC call.

WebRTC backend system may generate WebRTC URIs for WebRTC calls associated with private provider network and may validate generated WebRTC URIs. WebRTC backend system may interface with customer web servers via WebRTC access server . WebRTC backend system may receive a request for a WebRTC URI from customer web server via WebRTC access server may generate the WebRTC URI and may forward the generated WebRTC URI to customer web server via WebRTC access server . The generated WebRTC URI may for example direct a browser application running on WebRTC caller to contact center services system . Furthermore WebRTC backend system may retrieve call session data from the received request such as information identifying a caller information relating to the caller a reason for the call etc. The retrieved call session data may be stored in connection with the generated WebRTC URI.

Still further WebRTC backend system may validate the generated WebRTC URI at a later time based on a request received from validation proxy . For example WebRTC backend system may determine whether the generated WebRTC URI is valid. A WebRTC URI may be valid when the WebRTC URI corresponds to a previously generated WebRTC URI and or when the WebRTC URI satisfies one or more criteria such as not being expired and not having been previously validated. WebRTC backend system may generate a validation message in response to determining that the WebRTC URI is valid and may include any stored call session data in the validation message.

Contact center services system may host contact center services for one or more customers of private provider network . For example contact center services system may include an Interactive Voice Response IVR platform with or without Automatic Speech Recognition ASR which may request information from a caller and may direct the caller to a particular destination. Contact center services system may run multiple instances of a platform wherein each instance is associated with a particular customer. Different customers may be associated with different types versions subscriptions and or options configured for instances of contact center services system .

For example contact center services system may prompt the user to make one or more selections relating to the user s reason for calling or may prompt the user to provide identifying information. Alternatively some or all of the information may be obtained by customer web server and passed to contact center services system as call session data included in the WebRTC call. Contact center services system may perform one or more actions after obtaining information relating to the WebRTC call. For example contact center services system may park the call while a contact center agent is selected or made available may direct the user to a voicemail system where the user can leave a message and or may connect the user to a contact center agent.

In some implementations contact center services system may generate a URI for an existing WebRTC call and may provide the generated URI to customer web server via WebRTC backend system . The generated URI may be used to identify the WebRTC call and may be used to associate control actions generated by customer web server with the WebRTC call. Contact center services system may receive an instruction to perform a control action from customer web server via WebRTC backend system may retrieve a URI from the received instruction may identify a particular WebRTC call based on the retrieved the URI and may perform the control action with respect to the identified WebRTC call based on the received instruction. Contact center services system may send a response message back to customer web server via WebRTC backend system after the control action has been executed. Furthermore contact center services system may send a report message associated with a particular WebRTC call to customer web server via WebRTC backend system .

Contact center services system may be configured to receive telephone calls from callers using an Internet Protocol IP telephone device and or callers using a time division multiplexing TDM telephone device not shown in . Contact center services system may further be configured to communicate with contact center agents such as an IP contact center agent or a TDM contact center agent not shown in . An IP contact center agent may include any device configured with VoIP functionality such as a VoIP application. A TDM contact center agent may include any device configured for placing and or receiving TDM telephone calls using a TDM network such as such as a 2generation or 1generation wireless network a circuit based legacy telephone network and or another type of TDM network.

Furthermore contact center services system may be configured to communicate with WebRTC contact center agents . WebRTC contact center agent may include any device with a browser application configured with WebRTC functionality. For example WebRTC contact center agents may include a portable communication device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet computer a global positioning system GPS device and or another type of wireless device a personal computer or workstation a server device a portable computer a television a projector a speaker or another type of a display or audio output device a set top box a gaming system and or any type of device with communication capability.

Contact center agents may be managed by customer web server . Thus when contact center services system determines that a contact center agent should be connected to the user making the WebRTC call or to a user making an IP or a TDM call to contact center services system contact center services system may request a contact center agent URI from customer web server . Contact center services system may receive the requested contact center agent URI and may contact WebRTC contact center agent via WebRTC gateway using the received contact center agent URI.

Although shows exemplary components of environment in other implementations environment may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of environment may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other components of environment .

For example while shows a single WebRTC caller a single customer web server a single WebRTC access server a single WebRTC gateway a single validation proxy a single WebRTC backend system a single contact center services system and a single WebRTC contact center agent for illustrative purposes in practice environment may include multiple WebRTC callers multiple customer web servers multiple WebRTC access servers multiple WebRTC gateways multiple validation proxies multiple WebRTC backend systems multiple contact center services systems and or multiple WebRTC contact center agents .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include any type of single core processor multi core processor microprocessor latch based processor and or processing logic or families of processors microprocessors and or processing logics that interprets and executes instructions. In other embodiments processor may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA and or another type of integrated circuit or processing logic.

Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and or instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor . For example memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device a read only memory ROM device or another type of static storage device a content addressable memory CAM a magnetic and or optical recording memory device and its corresponding drive e.g. a hard disk drive optical drive etc. and or a removable form of memory such as a flash memory.

Input device may allow an operator to input information into device . Input device may include for example a keyboard a mouse a pen a microphone a remote control an audio capture device an image and or video capture device a touch screen display and or another type of input device. In some embodiments device may be managed remotely and may not include input device . In other words device may be headless and may not include a keyboard for example.

Output device may output information to an operator of device . Output device may include a display a printer a speaker and or another type of output device. For example device may include a display which may include a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying content to the customer. In some embodiments device may be managed remotely and may not include output device . In other words device may be headless and may not include a display for example.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems via wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared and or visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable and or waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications. Communication interface may include a transmitter that converts baseband signals to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that converts RF signals to baseband signals. Communication interface may be coupled to an antenna for transmitting and receiving RF signals.

Communication interface may include a logical component that includes input and or output ports input and or output systems and or other input and output components that facilitate the transmission of data to other devices. For example communication interface may include a network interface card e.g. Ethernet card for wired communications and or a wireless network interface e.g. a WiFi card for wireless communications. Communication interface may also include a universal serial bus USB port for communications over a cable a Bluetooth wireless interface a radio frequency identification RFID interface a near field communications NFC wireless interface and or any other type of interface that converts data from one form to another form.

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations relating to processing of WebRTC calls. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may be implemented within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components additional components or differently arranged components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Server interface may communicate with customer web servers . For example server interface may use a particular format and or protocol for communicating with a particular customer web server . Furthermore authentication module may establish a secure connection with customer web server by establishing a secure communication channel with customer web server .

Authentication module may authenticate customer web server when customer web server contacts WebRTC access server . For example authentication module may verify a digital signature associated with customer web server . Contact center interface may communicate with contact center services system and may establish a secure communication channel with contact center services system . Backend interface may communicate with WebRTC backend system and may establish a secure communication channel with WebRTC backend system .

Although shows exemplary functional components of WebRTC access server in other implementations WebRTC access server may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of WebRTC access server may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of WebRTC access server .

Access server interface may communicate with WebRTC access server and may establish a secure communication channel with WebRTC access server . Registration module may register a particular customer web server with WebRTC backend system . For example registration module may receive a request to register customer web server may configure an authentication procedure for customer web server in connection with WebRTC access server may obtain contact center specifications and or URI generation specifications from customer web server and or may configure billing for WebRTC calls associated with customer web server . Customer database may store the information relating to customer web server that was obtained by registration module .

URI generator module may generate a WebRTC URI for a WebRTC call requested by customer web server based on information stored in customer database . The generated WebRTC URI may direct WebRTC caller to contact center services system .

Call database may store information relating to particular WebRTC calls associated with particular customer web servers . Exemplary information that may be stored in call database is described below with reference to . Validation proxy interface may communicate with validation proxy . Validation module may process a request to validate a WebRTC URI received from validation proxy . Validation module may either validate or reject a particular WebRTC URI based on information stored in call database . If a WebRTC URI is validated validation module may send a validation message to validation proxy via validation proxy interface . The validation message may include call session data that was stored in call database .

Billing module may process billing for a particular WebRTC call. As an example billing module may send information about the particular WebRTC call to a billing system not shown . As another example billing module may include a particular number such as a particular toll free number in a validation message sent by validation module based on the particular customer associated with the validation message. The particular number may be used by contact center services system and or a billing system associated with contact center services system to bill the customer for the WebRTC call. In other implementations a different type of identifier may be used for billing such as an enterprise identifier or a URI associated with customer web server .

Although shows exemplary functional components of WebRTC backend system in other implementations WebRTC backend system may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of WebRTC backend system may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of WebRTC backend system .

Gateway interface may communicate with WebRTC gateway . For example gateway interface may receive calls incoming to contact center services interface from WebRTC gateway . Validation module may validate a WebRTC URI associated with an incoming call by generating a validation request and receiving a validation message in response. If a validation message is received validation module may generate a phone message such as a Session Initiation Protocol SIP message to contact center services system . Furthermore validation module may populate the SIP message with call session data received via the validation message.

Contact center interface may communicate with contact center services system . For example contact center interface may forward validated WebRTC calls to contact center services system . Backend interface may communicate with WebRTC backend system . For example backend interface may send a request to validate a WebRTC URI to WebRTC backend system and may receive a validation message from WebRTC backend system .

Although shows exemplary functional components of validation proxy in other implementations validation proxy may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of validation proxy may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of validation proxy .

Contact center services platform may include one or more instances of a contact center services platform associated with a particular customer. For example contact center services platform may include an Interactive Voice Response IVR platform with or without Automatic Speech Recognition ASR which may request information from a caller and may direct the caller to a particular destination. Contact center services platform may manage connections with contact center agents such as IP contact center agents and or TDM contact center agents. Contact center services platform may also include a service routing component used for toll free routing. The service routing component may be configured to route toll free WebRTC calls.

Call agent manager may manage connecting a caller to a WebRTC contact center agent. For example when contact center services platform determines that WebRTC caller should be connected to a contact center agent call agent manager may secure a connection to a contact center agent. In some implementations WebRTC contact center agents may not be available and call agent manager may select a contact center agent using another technique. If WebRTC contact center agents are available call agent manager may request selection of a WebRTC contact center agent from customer web server .

Access server interface may communicate with WebRTC access server . For example access server interface may receive an instruction from call agent manager to obtain a WebRTC contact center agent URI from customer web server via WebRTC access server . Access server interface may obtain a WebRTC contact center agent URI from WebRTC access server and provide the WebRTC contact center agent URI to call agent manager . Call agent manager may contact the WebRTC contact center agent using the obtained WebRTC contact center agent URI via WebRTC API . WebRTC API may establish and manage a WebRTC connection between contact center services system and WebRTC contact center agent using the obtained WebRTC contact center agent URI.

Although shows exemplary functional components of contact center services system in other implementations contact center services system may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of contact center services system may perform functions described as being performed by one or more other functional components of contact center services system .

Call ID field may include an identifier e.g. a string of characters that uniquely identifies a particular WebRTC call initiated by WebRTC caller and for which a WebRTC URI has been requested by customer web server . Customer ID field may include an identifier that identifies a customer associated with the particular WebRTC call. For example customer ID field may store a customer account number or another identifier that may be used to bill the customer for WebRTC calls and or that may be used by contact center services system to identify a contact center instance associated with the customer.

Call session data field may store call session information associated with the WebRTC call. As an example call session data field may include information associated with a caller such as the caller s name address phone number geographic location account number purchase history subscription details and or any other information associated with a caller. As another example call session data field may store a reason associated with the call. As yet another example call session data field may store an indication that the caller has been flagged for a particular action. Moreover call session data field may store information associated with the customer such as a particular toll free number or another type of identifier that may be provided to contact center services system to generate a bill for the WebRTC call.

URI field may store a WebRTC URI assigned to the particular WebRTC call. As an example WebRTC URI may be generated based on specifications associated with the particular customer such as a URI of a particular contact center services platform associated with the particular customer. As another example WebRTC URI may include an identifier for a set of instructions stored by WebRTC gateway to cause WebRTC gateway to request a particular type of connection with WebRTC caller such a particular type of secure tunnel.

Validation field may store information about whether the URI stored in URI field should be considered valid. As an example the URI may be designated to be valid for a particular length of time after generation e.g. 60 seconds and may be deemed expired and invalid after the particular length of time has expired. As another example the URI may only be validated once and after one validation the URI may be designated as invalid.

Although shows exemplary components of call database in other implementations call database may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in .

The process of may include receiving a request to register a customer for WebRTC contact center services block . For example customer web server may request to register with WebRTC backend system via WebRTC access server . WebRTC backend system may generate a new entry for the customer in customer database . An authentication procedure may be configured with an access server block . For example WebRTC backend system may establish a digital signature for customer web server and or may establish generation of a secure communication channel between customer web server and WebRTC access server e.g. by using a public key private key encryption etc. . In other implementations the establishment of an authentication procedure may be performed by WebRTC access server .

Contact center specifications may be obtained from the customer block and URI generation may be configured based on the obtained customer specifications block . For example customer web server may be associated with a particular contact center services system or a particular instance running on contact center services system and URI generation may be configured to include an address identifying the particular contact center services system or the particular instance running on contact center services system .

Billing for WebRTC calls may be configured for the customer block . As an example registration module may select a toll free number or another type of identifier that may be provided to contact center services system in order to bill a WebRTC call to the customer. As another example registration module may identify a billing account associated with the customer and may provide the billing account to billing module .

The process of may include receiving a request for a URI for a WebRTC call session from a customer block . For example a user of WebRTC caller may access customer web server using a browser application and may activate a WebRTC call by for example clicking on a button to request to talk to a customer representative. In response customer web server may contact WebRTC access server to request a WebRTC URI for the user. Furthermore customer web server may obtain call session data and may forward the call session data along with the request. As an example customer web server may obtain information associated with the caller such as the caller s name geographic location address phone number account number purchase history subscription details and or other information associated with the caller. The caller may be identified by prompting the caller for the information when the call is accessing customer web server by having the caller log in and matching the caller s login information with an account number by matching the caller s account to an identifier associated with WebRTC caller e.g. an IP address and or by using another technique.

As another example the call session data may include information identifying a reason for the call. The reason may be obtained by prompting the user to enter a reason or to select a reason from a list or may be inferred based on the user s activity prior to activating the WebRTC call e.g. based on the particular web page that the user was accessing . As yet another example the call session data may include a flag to perform a particular action with respect to the caller. For example customer web server may identify an account associated with the caller may determine that the caller has an account balance and may flag the caller to be connected to an account management contact center agent. As another example customer web server may select the caller for a promotion or a survey and may flag the caller to be connected to a promotion contact center agent or a survey contact center agent.

The customer request may be authenticated block and the request may be forwarded to a backend system along with call session information block . For example WebRTC access server may authenticate customer web server using an established authentication procedure and may forward the request along with any call session data to WebRTC backend system . A URI may be received from the backend system block and the URI may be forwarded to the customer block . For example WebRTC access server may receive in response to the sent request a WebRTC URI from WebRTC backend system and may forward the received WebRTC URI to customer web server . Customer web server may provide the WebRTC URI to the browser application and the browser application may use the received WebRTC URI to initiate a WebRTC call to contact center services system via WebRTC gateway .

In some implementations the WebRTC URI may include an identifier for a set of instructions stored by WebRTC gateway . For example the stored instructions may cause WebRTC gateway to request a secure connection or a particular type of secure connection with WebRTC caller . Thus the browser application of WebRTC caller may establish a secure connection with WebRTC gateway for the WebRTC call connection through public network .

The process of may include receiving a URI associated with a WebRTC call from a WebRTC gateway block and sending a validation request to validate the URI to a backend system block . For example validation proxy may receive a WebRTC URI from WebRTC caller via WebRTC gateway and may send the WebRTC URI to WebRTC backend system with a request to validate the WebRTC URI.

A validation message along with call session data may be received block . For example validation proxy may receive a validation message from WebRTC backend system . The validation message may include call session data that was obtained by WebRTC backend system from customer web server via WebRTC access server . The call session data may include a toll free number associated with the customer may include information identifying the caller and or other information associated with the caller may include a reason for the call may include an indication that a particular action should be taken by contact center services system .

A SIP message may be populated with the received call session data block and the SIP message may be forwarded to a contact center services system block . For example validation proxy may generate a SIP INVITE message and may populate the SIP message with the received call session data. The SIP INVITE message may be sent to contact center session services . In other implementations validation proxy may generate another type of message to send to contact center session services system .

If WebRTC URI is not validated validation proxy may receive a rejection message from WebRTC backend system . If a rejection message is received from WebRTC backend system the WebRTC call may be terminated and no message may be sent to contact center services system .

The process of may include receiving a request for a WebRTC URI from an access server on behalf of a customer block . For example WebRTC backend system may receive a request from WebRTC access server on behalf of customer web server for a WebRTC URI for a WebRTC call initiated by a user from a browser application running on WebRTC caller . The request may include call session data.

Call session data may be retrieved from the received request block . For example URI generation module may retrieve from the received request information associated with the user information relating to a reason for the call an indication that the caller should be flagged for a particular action and or other types of call session data.

A WebRTC URI may be generated for the customer based on specifications associated with the customer block . As an example URI generation module may access customer database to determine URI generation specifications associated with the customer such as a domain name or another type of an address associated with a particular contact center services system . Thus packets that include the WebRTC URI as a destination address may be routed to contact center services system . As another example private provider network may have particular security requirements for WebRTC calls coming in through public network . Thus the generated WebRTC URI may include an identifier for a set of instructions stored by WebRTC gateway . The stored instructions may cause WebRTC gateway to request a particular type of connection with WebRTC caller such a particular type of secure tunnel.

URI generation module may generate a new call record and may store the generated WebRTC URI along with the retrieved call session data in the new call record . The generated WebRTC URI may be assigned a particular expiration time after which the WebRTC URI ceases to be valid. The generated WebRTC URI may be provided to the access server block . For example WebRTC backend system may provide the generated WebRTC URI to WebRTC access server .

A request to validate the generated WebRTC URI may be received from a validation proxy block and a determination may be made as to whether the WebRTC URI is valid block . For example validation module may receive a request to validate a WebRTC URI from validation proxy . Validation module may access call database and may identify a call record associated with the WebRTC URI. Validation module may determine whether the WebRTC URI is valid based on validation field . If validation field indicates that the WebRTC URI is still valid a validation message may be generated.

If the WebRTC URI is determined to be invalid block NO a rejection message may be sent. For example validation module may send a rejection message to validation proxy and validation proxy may drop the WebRTC call. If the WebRTC URI is determined to be valid block YES call session data may be incorporated into a validation message block and the validation message may be sent to the validation proxy block . For example validation module may add the call session data from call record to a validation message and may send the validation message to validation proxy . The added call session data may include a customer ID identifying customer web server a toll free number or another type of identifier such as an enterprise ID URI etc. associated with the customer that may be used for billing purposes information associated with the caller e.g. name account number etc. a reason for the call an indication flagging the user for a particular action e.g. a particular type of contact center agent and or other types of call session data.

The process of may include detecting a request for a contact center agent block and call session data associated with the detected request may be obtained block . For example a process flow at contact center services platform may determine that a WebRTC call or another type of call such as an IP call or a TDM call should be connected to a particular type of contact center agent and may activate call agent manager to secure a WebRTC call to the particular type of contact center agent. Contact center services platform may provide call session data to call agent manager such as information associated with the caller information relating to the reason for the call and or any other information obtained by contact center services platform .

A request for the contact center agent along with the obtained call session data may be sent to an access server block . For example call agent manager may send a request to customer web server via WebRTC access server to obtain a contact center agent URI for the call. A contact center agent URI may be received from the access server block and the received contact center agent URI may be used to call the contact agent via a WebRTC gateway block . For example call agent manager may obtain a WebRTC URI to call a selected contact center agent and may use WebRTC API to call the selected contact center agent via WebRTC gateway .

The process of may include receiving a request for a contact center agent URI from a contact center services system block and the received request may be provided to a customer web server block . For example WebRTC access system may receive a request for a contact center agent URI. The request may include information identifying the customer which may be used by WebRTC access system to identify a particular customer web server to which the request should be forwarded. Furthermore the request may include call session data that may identify a particular type of contact center agent that should be selected e.g. a billing department agent a complaints department agent etc. . The request may be forwarded to an identified customer web server .

A contact center agent URI may be received from the customer web server block and the received contact center agent URI may be forwarded to the contact center services system block . For example WebRTC access server may receive the contact center agent URI and may forward the received contact center agent URI to contact center services system . Contact center services agent may use the contact center agent URI to initiate a WebRTC call to the contact center agent via WebRTC gateway .

WebRTC backend system may generate a WebRTC URI for the customer based on specifications associated with the customer and stored in customer database . The generated WebRTC URI may include a domain name or another type of address associated with contact center services system . Thus packets with a destination address based on the generated WebRTC URI may be routed to contact center services system . WebRTC backend system may send the generated WebRTC URI to WebRTC access server signal . WebRTC access server may provide the received WebRTC URI to customer web server signal and customer web server may provide the WebRTC URI to the browser application running on WebRTC caller signal .

The browser application running on WebRTC caller may invoke the WebRTC API to place a WebRTC call using the received WebRTC URI signal . The WebRTC URI may be used to route the call to WebRTC gateway as the routing table of WebRTC gateway may indicate that contact center services system is reachable through WebRTC gateway . WebRTC gateway may determine that contact center services system is reachable through validation proxy may convert the WebRTC call to a SIP call and may forward the SIP call to validation proxy signal . Validation proxy may determine that the SIP call is associated with a WebRTC call that needs to be validated and may send the WebRTC URI to WebRTC backend system along with a request to validate the WebRTC URI signal .

WebRTC backend system may access call record associated with the received WebRTC URI and may determine whether the WebRTC URI is valid. If no call record can be found for the WebRTC URI or if the call record indicates that the WebRTC URI is no longer valid WebRTC backend system may send a rejection message and validation proxy may drop the call. Assume the WebRTC URI is determined to be valid. WebRTC backend system may retrieve call session data associated with the call from call record and may include the call session data in a validation message that is sent back to validation proxy signal . Validation proxy may generate a SIP INVITE message to request a connection to contact center services system may populate the SIP INVITE message with call session data included in the validation message and may send the SIP INVITE message to contact center services system signal . Contact center services system may respond to the SIP INVITE message in order to open a call connection to WebRTC caller .

Contact center services system may determine that the existing call needs to be routed to a particular type of contact center agent e.g. an account management agent a troubleshooting agent etc. . Contact center services system may send a request to customer web server for a WebRTC contact center agent URI via WebRTC access server and WebRTC access server may forward the request to customer web server signals and . The request may include call session data such as information associated with the caller a reason for the call and or information identifying the particular type of contact center agent that is being requested.

Customer web server may manage contact center agents and may identify and select an available contact center agent that is of the requested particular type of contact center agent. Customer web server may determine a URI of the selected contact center agent and may send the contact center agent URI back to contact center services system via WebRTC access server signals and . Contact center services system may initiate a SIP call to the selected contact center agent using the received URI. The SIP call may be routed through private provider network to WebRTC gateway B signal . WebRTC gateway B may convert the SIP call to a WebRTC call and may use the URI to contact WebRTC contact center agent to open a WebRTC call with WebRTC contact center agent signal .

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel. As another example while a series of signal flows have been described with respect to the order of the signal flows may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent signal flows may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and methods is not limiting of the embodiments. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and methods based on the description herein.

Further certain portions described above may be implemented as a component that performs one or more functions. A component as used herein may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor executing software .

It should be emphasized that the terms comprises comprising when used in this specification are taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the embodiments unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

