---

title: Reducing carbon dioxide to products
abstract: A method reducing carbon dioxide to one or more products may include steps (A) to (C). Step (A) may bubble said carbon dioxide into a solution of an electrolyte and a catalyst in a divided electrochemical cell. The divided electrochemical cell may include an anode in a first cell compartment and a cathode in a second cell compartment. The cathode may reduce said carbon dioxide into said products. Step (B) may adjust one or more of (a) a cathode material, (b) a surface morphology of said cathode, (c) said electrolyte, (d) a manner in which said carbon dioxide is bubbled, (e), a pH level of said solution, and (f) an electrical potential of said divided electrochemical cell, to vary at least one of (i) which of said products is produced and (ii) a faradaic yield of said products. Step (C) may separate said products from said solution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08845878&OS=08845878&RS=08845878
owner: Liquid Light, Inc.
number: 08845878
owner_city: Monmouth Junction
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130306
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 609 088 filed Mar. 9 2012 to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 607 240 filed Mar. 6 2012 and to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 846 221 filed Jul. 29 2010 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present application incorporates by reference co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 787 481 entitled REDUCING CARBON DIOXIDE TO PRODUCTS in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant DE SC0006201 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to chemical reduction generally and more particularly to a method and or apparatus for implementing reducing carbon dioxide to products.

The combustion of fossil fuels in activities such as the electricity generation transportation and manufacturing produces billions of tons of carbon dioxide annually. Research since the 1970s indicates increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere may be responsible for altering the Earth s climate changing the pH of the ocean and other potentially damaging effects. Countries around the world including the United States are seeking ways to mitigate emissions of carbon dioxide.

A mechanism for mitigating emissions is to convert carbon dioxide into economically valuable materials such as fuels and industrial chemicals. If the carbon dioxide is converted using energy from renewable sources both mitigation of carbon dioxide emissions and conversion of renewable energy into a chemical form that can be stored for later use will be possible. Electrochemical and photochemical pathways are means for the carbon dioxide conversion.

The present disclosure concerns methods for reducing carbon dioxide to one or more products. The methods may include steps A to C . Step A may bubble the carbon dioxide into a solution of an electrolyte and a catalyst in a divided electrochemical cell. The divided electrochemical cell may include an anode in a first cell compartment and a cathode in a second cell compartment. The cathode generally reduces the carbon dioxide into the products. Step B may adjust one or more of a a cathode material b a surface morphology of said cathode c said electrolyte d a manner in which said carbon dioxide is bubbled e a pH level of said solution and f an electrical potential of said divided electrochemical cell to vary at least one of i which of said products is produced and ii a faradaic yield of said products. Step C may separate the products from the solution.

The present disclosure concerns a system for electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide. The system may include an electrochemical cell which may include a first cell compartment an anode positioned within said first cell compartment a second cell compartment a separator interposed between said first cell compartment and said second cell compartment. The second cell compartment may contain an electrolyte. The electrochemical cell may include a cathode within said second cell compartment. The cathode may be selected from the group consisting of n GaAs SS304 n Ge NiCoO Rh and mixtures thereof. The system may also include an energy source operably coupled with said anode and said cathode. The energy source may be configured to apply a voltage between said anode and said cathode to reduce carbon dioxide at said cathode to at least one of acetate acetic acid glycolate and glycolic acid.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention an electro catalytic system is provided that generally allows carbon dioxide to be converted at modest overpotentials to highly reduced species in an aqueous solution. Some embodiments generally relate to simple efficient and economical conversion of carbon dioxide to reduced organic products such as methanol formic acid and formaldehyde. Inorganic products such as polymers may also be formed. Carbon carbon bonds and or carbon hydrogen bonds may be formed in the aqueous solution under mild conditions utilizing a minimum of energy. In some embodiments the energy used by the system may be generated from an alternative energy source or directly using visible light depending on how the system is implemented.

The reduction of carbon dioxide may be suitably catalyzed by aromatic heterocyclic amines e.g. pyridine imidazole and substituted derivatives . Simple organic compounds have been found to be effective and stable homogeneous electrocatalysts and photoelectrocatalysts for the aqueous multiple electron multiple proton reduction of carbon dioxide to organic products such as formic acid formaldehyde and methanol. For production of methanol the reduction of carbon dioxide may proceed along an electron e transfer pathway. High faradaic yields for the reduced products have generally been found in both electrochemical and photoelectrochemical systems at low reaction overpotentials.

Metal derived multi electron transfer was previously thought to achieve highly reduced products such as methanol. Currently simple aromatic heterocyclic amine molecules may be capable of producing many different chemical species on route to methanol through multiple electron transfers instead of metal based multi electron transfers.

Some embodiments of the present invention thus relate to environmentally beneficial methods for reducing carbon dioxide. The methods generally include electrochemically and or photoelectrochemically reducing the carbon dioxide in an aqueous electrolyte supported divided electrochemical cell that includes an anode e.g. an inert conductive counter electrode in a cell compartment and a conductive or p type semiconductor working cathode electrode in another cell compartment. A catalyst may be included to produce a reduced product. Carbon dioxide may be continuously bubbled through the cathode electrolyte solution to saturate the solution.

For electrochemical reductions the electrode may be a suitable conductive electrode such as Al Au Ag Bi C Cd Co Cr Cu Cu alloys e.g. brass and bronze Ga Hg In Mo Nb Ni NiCoO Ni alloys e.g. Ni 625 NiHX Ni Fe alloys Pb Pd alloys e.g. PdAg Pt Pt alloys e.g. PtRh Rh Sn Sn alloys e.g. SnAg SnPb SnSb Ti V W Zn stainless steel SS e.g. SS 2205 SS 304 SS 316 SS 321 austenitic steel ferritic steel duplex steel martensitic steel Nichrome e.g. NiCr 60 16 with Fe elgiloy e.g. Co Ni Cr degenerately doped p Si degenerately doped p Si As degenerately doped p Si B degenerately doped n Si degenerately doped n Si As and degenerately doped n Si B. Other conductive electrodes may be implemented to meet the criteria of a particular application. For photoelectrochemical reductions the electrode may be a p type semiconductor such as p GaAs p GaP p InN p InP p CdTe p GaInPand p Si or an n type semiconductor such as n GaAs n GaP n InN n InP n CdTe n GaInPand n Si. Other semiconductor electrodes may be implemented to meet the criteria of a particular application including but not limited to CoS MoS TiB WS SnS AgS CoP FeP MnP MoP NiSi MoSi WSi CoSi TiO SnO GaAs GaSb Ge and CdSe.

The catalyst for conversion of carbon dioxide electrochemically or photoelectrochemically may be a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic heterocyclic amine. Suitable amines are generally heterocycles which may include but are not limited to heterocyclic compounds that are 5 member or 6 member rings with at least one ring nitrogen. For example pyridines imidazoles and related species with at least one five member ring bipyridines e.g. two connected pyridines and substituted derivatives were generally found suitable as catalysts for the electrochemical reduction and or the photoelectrochemical reduction. Amines that have sulfur or oxygen in the rings may also be suitable for the reductions. Amines with sulfur or oxygen may include thiazoles or oxazoles. Other aromatic amines e.g. quinolines adenine azoles indoles benzimidazole and 1 10 phenanthroline may also be effective electrocatalysts.

Carbon dioxide may be photochemically or electrochemically reduced to formic acid with formaldehyde and methanol being formed in smaller amounts. Catalytic hydrogenation of carbon dioxide using heterogeneous catalysts generally provides methanol together with water as well as formic acid and formaldehyde. The reduction of carbon dioxide to methanol with complex metal hydrides such as lithium aluminum hydrides may be costly and therefore problematic for bulk production of methanol. Current reduction processes are generally highly energy consuming and thus are not efficient ways for a high yield economical conversion of carbon dioxide to various products.

On the other hand the use of processes for converting carbon dioxide to reduced organic and or inorganic products in accordance with some embodiments of the invention generally has the potential to lead to a significant reduction of carbon dioxide a major greenhouse gas in the atmosphere and thus to the mitigation of global warming. Moreover some embodiments may advantageously produce methanol and related products without adding extra reactants such as a hydrogen source. The resultant product mixture may use little in the way of further treatment. For example a resultant 1 molar M methanol solution may be used directly in a fuel cell. For other uses simple removal of the electrolyte salt and water may be readily accomplished.

Before any embodiments of the invention are explained in detail it is to be understood that the embodiments may not be limited in application per the details of the structure or the function as set forth in the following descriptions or illustrated in the figures of the drawing. Different embodiments may be capable of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of terms such as including comprising or having and variations thereof herein are generally meant to encompass the item listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

In the following description of methods process steps may be carried out over a range of temperatures e.g. approximately 10 C. Celsius to 50 C. and a range of pressures e.g. approximately 1 to 10 atmospheres unless otherwise specified. Numerical ranges recited herein generally include all values from the lower value to the upper value e.g. all possible combinations of numerical values between the lowest value and the highest value enumerated are considered expressly stated . For example if a concentration range or beneficial effect range is stated as 1 to 50 it is intended that values such as 2 to 40 10 to 30 or 1 to 3 etc. are expressly enumerated. The above may be simple examples of what is specifically intended.

A use of electrochemical or photoelectrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide tailored with certain electrocatalysts may produce methanol and related products in a high yield of about 60 to about 100 based on the amount of carbon dioxide suitably about 75 to 90 and more suitably about 85 to 95 . At an electric potential of about 0.50 to 2 volts V with respect to a saturated calomel electrode SCE methanol may be produced with good faradaic efficiency at the cathode.

An example of an overall reaction for the reduction of carbon dioxide may be represented as follows CO2 2H2O CH3OH 3 2O2 For a 6 e reduction the reactions at the cathode and anode may be represented as follows CO2 6H 63OH H2O cathode 3H2O 3 2O2 6H 6 anode 

The reduction of the carbon dioxide may be suitably achieved efficiently in a divided electrochemical or photoelectrochemical cell in which i a compartment contains an anode that is an inert counter electrode and ii another compartment contains a working cathode electrode and a catalyst. The compartments may be separated by a porous glass frit or other ion conducting bridge. Both compartments generally contain an aqueous solution of an electrolyte. Carbon dioxide gas may be continuously bubbled through the cathodic electrolyte solution to saturate the solution.

In the working electrode compartment carbon dioxide may be continuously bubbled through the solution. In some embodiments if the working electrode is a conductor an external bias may be impressed across the cell such that the potential of the working electrode is held constant. In other embodiments if the working electrode is a p type semiconductor the electrode may be suitably illuminated with light. An energy of the light may be matching or greater than a bandgap of the semiconductor during the electrolysis. Furthermore either no external source of electrical energy may be used or a modest bias e.g. about 500 millivolts may be applied. The working electrode potential is generally held constant relative to the SCE. The electrical energy for the electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide may come from a normal energy source including nuclear and alternatives e.g. hydroelectric wind solar power geothermal etc. from a solar cell or other nonfossil fuel source of electricity provided that the electrical source supply at least 1.6 volts across the cell. Other voltage values may be adjusted depending on the internal resistance of the cell employed.

Advantageously the carbon dioxide may be obtained from any sources e.g. an exhaust stream from fossil fuel burning power or industrial plants from geothermal or natural gas wells or the atmosphere itself . Most suitably the carbon dioxide may be obtained from concentrated point sources of generation prior to being released into the atmosphere. For example high concentration carbon dioxide sources may frequently accompany natural gas in amounts of 5 to 50 exist in flue gases of fossil fuel e.g. coal natural gas oil etc. burning power plants and nearly pure carbon dioxide may be exhausted from cement factories and from fermenters used for industrial fermentation of ethanol. Certain geothermal steams may also contain significant amounts of carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide emissions from varied industries including geothermal wells may be captured on site. Separation of the carbon dioxide from such exhausts is known. Thus the capture and use of existing atmospheric carbon dioxide in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention generally allow the carbon dioxide to be a renewable and unlimited source of carbon.

For electrochemical conversions the carbon dioxide may be readily reduced in an aqueous medium with a conductive electrode. Faradaic efficiencies have been found high some reaching about 100 . For photoelectrochemical conversions the carbon dioxide may be readily reduced with a p type semiconductor electrode such as p GaP p GaAs p InP p InN p WSe p CdTe p GaInPand p Si.

The electrochemical photoelectrochemical reduction of the carbon dioxide generally utilizes one or more catalysts in the aqueous solution. Aromatic heterocyclic amines may include but are not limited to unsubstituted and substituted pyridines and imidazoles. Substituted pyridines and imidazoles may include but are not limited to mono and disubstituted pyridines and imidazoles. For example suitable catalysts may include straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl e.g. C1 C10 mono and disubstituted compounds such as 2 methylpyridine 4 tertbutyl pyridine 2 6 dimethylpyridine 2 6 lutidine bipyridines such as 4 4 bipyridine amino substituted pyridines such as 4 dimethylamino pyridine and hydroxyl substituted pyridines e.g. 4 hydroxy pyridine and substituted or unsubstituted quinoline or isoquinolines. The catalysts may also suitably include substituted or unsubstituted dinitrogen heterocyclic amines such as pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine. Other catalysts generally include azoles imidazoles indoles oxazoles thiazoles substituted species and complex multi ring amines such as adenine pterin pteridine benzimidazole phenonthroline and the like.

Referring to a block diagram of a system is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The system or apparatus generally comprises a cell or container a liquid source a power source a gas source an extractor and an extractor . A product may be presented from the extractor . An output gas may be presented from the extractor . Another output gas may be presented from the cell .

The cell may be implemented as a divided cell. The divided cell may be a divided electrochemical cell and or a divided photochemical cell. The cell is generally operational to reduce carbon dioxide CO and protons into one or more organic products and or inorganic products. The reduction generally takes place by bubbling carbon dioxide into an aqueous solution of an electrolyte in the cell . A cathode in the cell may reduce the carbon dioxide into one or more compounds.

The cell generally comprises two or more compartments or chambers a separator or membrane an anode and a cathode . The anode may be disposed in a given compartment e.g. . The cathode may be disposed in another compartment e.g. on a side of the separator opposite the anode . An aqueous solution may fill both compartments . A catalyst may be added to the compartment containing the cathode .

The liquid source may implement a water source. The liquid source may be operational to provide pure water to the cell .

The power source may implement a variable voltage source. The source may be operational to generate an electrical potential between the anode and the cathode . The electrical potential may be a DC voltage.

The gas source may implement a carbon dioxide source. The source is generally operational to provide carbon dioxide to the cell . In some embodiments the carbon dioxide is bubbled directly into the compartment containing the cathode and the electrolyte . In a preferred embodiment a carbon dioxide saturated electrolyte is introduced to the cell . The electrolyte may include one or more of Na2SO4 KHCO3 KCl NaNO3 NaCl NaF NaClO4 KClO4 K2SiO3 CaCl2 a guanidinium cation an H cation an alkali metal cation an ammonium cation an alkylammonium cation a halide ion an alkyl amine a borate a carbonate a guanidinium derivative a nitrite a nitrate a phosphate a polyphosphate a perchlorate a silicate a sulfate and a tetraalkyl ammonium salt.

The extractor may implement an organic product and or inorganic product extractor. The extractor is generally operational to extract separate products e.g. formic acid acetone glyoxal isopropanol formaldehyde methanol polymers and the like from the electrolyte . The extracted products may be presented through a port of the system for subsequent storage and or consumption by other devices and or processes.

The extractor may implement an oxygen extractor. The extractor is generally operational to extract oxygen e.g. O byproducts created by the reduction of the carbon dioxide and or the oxidation of water. The extracted oxygen may be presented through a port of the system for subsequent storage and or consumption by other devices and or processes. Chlorine and or oxidatively evolved chemicals may also be byproducts in some configurations. The organic pollutants may be rendered harmless by oxidization. Any other excess gases e.g. hydrogen created by the reduction of the carbon dioxide may be vented from the cell via a port .

In the process described water may be oxidized or split to protons and oxygen at the anode while the carbon dioxide is reduced to organic products at the cathode . The electrolyte in the cell may use water as a solvent with any salts that are water soluble and with a pyridine or pyridine derived catalyst . The catalysts may include but are not limited to nitrogen sulfur and oxygen containing heterocycles. Examples of the heterocyclic compounds may be pyridine imidazole pyrrole thiazole furan thiophene and the substituted heterocycles such as amino thiazole and benzimidazole. Cathode materials generally include any conductor. Any anode material may be used. The overall process is generally driven by the power source . Combinations of cathodes electrolytes catalysts introduction of carbon dioxide to the cell introduction of divalent cations e.g. Ca Mg Zn to the electrolytes pH levels and electric potential from the power source may be used to control the reaction products of the cell . For instance the pH of electrolyte solution may be maintained between about pH 1 and pH 8 with a suitable range depending on what product or products are desired. Organic products and inorganic products resulting from the reaction may include but are not limited to acetaldehyde acetate acetic acid acetone 1 butanol 2 butanol 2 butanone carbon carbon monoxide carbonates ethane ethanol ethylene formaldehyde formate formic acid glycolate glycolic acid glyoxal glyoxylate glyoxylic acid graphite isopropanol lactate lactic acid methane methanol oxalate oxalic acid a polymer containing carbon dioxide 1 propanal 1 propanol and propionic acid.

In particular implementations the cell includes a tin Sn cathode for the production of formate. A catalyst is preferably used with the catalyst preferably including one or more of 2 picoline and 2 6 lutadine. The preferred catalyst concentration is between about 1 ppm and 100 mM and more preferably between about 0.01 mM and 30 mM. The electrolyte in the cell may include potassium chloride with a concentration of 0.5 M however other electrolytes may be utilized including but not limited to another chloride electrolyte e.g. LiCl CsCl NHCl a perchlorate electrolyte a phosphate electrolyte a bicarbonate electrolyte and a sulfate electrolyte. During operation of the cell a surface hydroxide may develop on the surface of the tin cathode. Such surface hydroxide development may lead to a decrease in current density of the cell but product yields may remain stable for an extended period of time. For example in one preferred embodiment stable yields were obtained in a duration that exceeded 145 hours. To address the surface hydroxide development an acidic solution may be introduced to the cathode compartment where additional protons may be made available at the cathode surface to reduce the hydroxide to water. A pH buffer may be utilized to maintain a preferred pH range in the cathode compartment of between about 1 and 7 with a more preferable pH range of between 3 and 6 and even more preferable pH range of between 3 and 4.5. In one embodiment the pH buffer is a phosphate buffer which may be a 0.2M phosphate buffer. A cation mixture may also be introduced to the catholyte compartment which also may address the formation of the surface hydroxide development. Preferred cations include mid sized cations such as potassium K and cesium Cs which may be introduced in a molar ratio of potassium to cesium of between about 1 1000 and 1000 1.

In some nonaqueous embodiments the solvent may include methanol acetonitrile and or other nonaqueous solvents. The electrolytes generally include tetraalkyl ammonium salts and a heterocyclic catalyst. A primary product may be oxalate in a completely nonaqueous system. In a system containing a nonaqueous catholyte and an aqueous anolyte the products generally include all of the products seen in aqueous systems with higher yields.

Experiments were conducted in one two and three compartment electrochemical cells with an SCE as the reference electrode. The experiments were generally conducted at ambient temperature and pressure. Current densities were observed to increase with increased temperature but the experiments were generally operated at ambient temperature for best efficiency. Carbon dioxide was bubbled into the cells during the experiments. A potentiostat or DC power supply provided the electrical energy to drive the process. Cell potentials ranged from 2 volts to 4 volts depending on the cathode material. Half cell potentials at the cathode ranged from 0.7 volts to 2 volts relative to the SCE depending on the cathode material used. Products from the experiments were analyzed using gas chromatography and a spectrometer.

The process is generally controlled to get a desired product by using combinations of specific cathode materials catalysts electrolytes surface morphology of the electrodes introduction of reactants relative to the cathode introduction of divalent cations to the electrolyte adjusting pH levels and or adjusting electrical potentials. Faradaic yields for the products generally range from less than 1 to more than 90 with the remainder being hydrogen although methane carbon monoxide and or ethylene may also be produced as gaseous byproducts.

Referring to tables illustrating relative product yields for different cathode material catalyst electrolyte pH level and cathode potential combinations are shown. The combinations listed in the tables generally are not the only combinations providing a given product. The combinations illustrated may demonstrate high yields of the products at the lowest potential. The cathodes tested generally include all conductive elements on the periodic table steels nickel alloys copper alloys such as brass and bronze and elgiloy. Most of the conductors may be used with heterocyclic catalysts to reduce the carbon dioxide. The products created may vary based on which cathode material is used. For instance a W cathode with pyridine catalyst may give acetone as a product whereas a Sn cathode with pyridine may primarily give formic acid and methanol as products. A product yield may also be changed by the manner in which the carbon dioxide was bubbled into the cell . For instance with a stainless steel 2205 cathode in a KCl electrolyte if the carbon dioxide bubbles directly contact the cathode the product mix may switch to methanol and isopropanol rather than formic acid and acetone when the carbon dioxide bubbles avoid contact with the cathode i.e. the carbon dioxide bubbles circumvent the cathode in the cell .

Cell design and cathode treatment e.g. surface morphology or surface texture may affect both product yields and current density at the cathode. For instance a divided cell with a stainless steel 2205 cathode in a KCl electrolyte generally has higher yields with a heavily scratched rough cathode than an unscratched smooth cathode . In some embodiments the roughness or smoothness of a cathode surface may be determined by a comparison between a surface area measurement and the geometric surface area of the cathode where the greater the difference between the surface area measurement and the geometric surface area the rougher the cathode. Matte tin generally performs different than bright tin. Maintaining carbon dioxide bubbling only on the cathode side of the divided cell e.g. in compartment may also increase yields.

Raising or lowering the cathode potential may also alter the reduced products. For instance ethanol is generally evolved at lower potentials between 0.8 volts and 1 volt using the duplex steel pyridine KCl while methanol is favored beyond 1 volt.

Faradaic yields for the products may be improved by controlling the electrical potential of the reaction. By maintaining a constant potential at the cathode hydrogen evolution is generally reduced and faradaic yields of the products increased. Addition of hydrogen inhibitors such as acetonitrile certain heterocycles alcohols and other chemicals may also increase yields of the products.

With some embodiments stability may be improved with cathode materials known to poison rapidly when reducing carbon dioxide. Copper and copper alloy electrodes commonly poison in less than an hour of electrochemically reducing carbon dioxide. However when used with a heterocyclic amine catalyst copper based alloys were operated for many hours without any observed degradation in effectiveness. The effects were particularly enhanced by using sulfur containing heterocycles. For instance a system with a copper cathode and 2 amino thiazole catalyst showed very high stability for the reduction of carbon dioxide to carbon monoxide and formic acid.

Heterocycles other than pyridine may catalytically reduce carbon dioxide in the electrochemical process using many aforementioned cathode materials including tin steels nickel alloys and copper alloys. Nitrogen containing heterocyclic amines shown to be effective include azoles indoles 4 4 bipyridines picolines methyl pyridines lutidines dimethyl pyridines hydroxy pyridines imidazole benzimidazole methyl imidazole pyrazine pyrimidine pyridazine pyridazineimidazole nicotinic acid quinoline adenine and 1 10 phenanthroline. Sulfur containing heterocycles include thiazole aminothiazoles thiophene. Oxygen containing heterocycles include furan and oxazole. As with pyridine the combination of catalyst cathode material and electrolyte may be used to control product mix.

Some process embodiments of the present invention for making converting hydrocarbons generally consume a small amount of water e.g. approximately 1 to 3 moles of water per mole of carbon. Therefore the processes may be a few thousand times more water efficient than existing production techniques.

Referring to a formula of an aromatic heterocyclic amine catalyst is shown. The ring structure may be an aromatic 5 member heterocyclic ring or 6 member heterocyclic ring with at least one ring nitrogen and is optionally substituted at one or more ring positions other than nitrogen with R. L may be C or N. R1 may be H. R2 may be H if L is N or R2 is R if L is C. R is an optional substitutent on any ring carbon and may be independently selected from H a straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl hydroxyl amino pyridyl or two R s taken together with the ring carbons bonded thereto are a fused six member aryl ring and n 0 to 4.

Referring to formulae of substituted or unsubstituted aromatic 5 member heterocyclic amines or 6 member heterocyclic amines are shown. Referring to R3 may be H. R4 R5 R7 and R8 are generally independently H straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl hydroxyl amino or taken together are a fused six member aryl ring. R6 may be H straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl hydroxyl amino or pyridyl.

Referring to one of L1 L2 and L3 may be N while the other L s may be C. R9 may be H. If L1 is N R10 may be H. If L2 is N R11 may be H. If L3 is N R12 may be H. IfL1 L2 or L3 is C then R10 R11 R12 R13 and R14 may be independently selected from straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl hydroxyl amino or pyridyl.

Referring to R15 and R16 may be H. R17 R18 and R19 are generally independently selected from straight chain or branched chain lower alkyl hydroxyl amino or pyridyl.

Suitably the concentration of aromatic heterocyclic amine catalysts is about 1 millimolar mM to 1 M. The electrolyte may be suitably a salt such as KCl KHCO NaNO NaSO NaClO NaF NaClO KClO KSiO or CaClat a concentration of about 0.5 M. Other electrolytes may include but are not limited to all group 1 cations e.g. H Li Na K Rb and Cs except Francium Fr Ca ammonium cations alkylammonium cations and alkyl amines. Additional electrolytes may include but are not limited to all group 17 anions e.g. F Cl Br I and At borates carbonates nitrates nitrites perchlorates phosphates polyphosphates silicates and sulfates. Na generally performs as well as K with regard to best practices so NaCl may be exchanged with KCl. NaF may perform about as well as NaCl so NaF may be exchanged for NaCl or KCl in many cases. Larger anions tend to change the chemistry and favor different products. For instance sulfate may favor polymer or methanol production while Cl may favor products such as acetone. The pH of the solution is generally maintained at about pH 3 to 8 suitably about 4.7 to 5.6.

At conductive electrodes formic acid and formaldehyde were found to be intermediate products along the pathway to the 6 e reduced product of methanol with an aromatic amine radical e.g. the pyridinium radical playing a role in the reduction of both intermediate products . The intermediate products have generally been found to also be the final products of the reduction of carbon dioxide at conductive electrodes or p type semiconductor electrodes depending on the particular catalyst used. Other C C couple products may also be possible. For example reduction of carbon dioxide may suitably yield formaldehyde formic acid glyoxal methanol isopropanol or ethanol depending on the particular aromatic heterocyclic amine used as the catalyst. The products of the reduction of carbon dioxide are generally substitution sensitive. As such the products may be selectively produced. For example use of 4 4 bipyridine as the catalyst may produce methanol and or 2 propanol. Lutidines and amino substituted pyridines may produce 2 propanol. Hydroxy pyridine may produce formic acid.

The effective electrochemical photoelectrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide disclosed herein may provide new methods of producing methanol and other related products in an improved efficient and environmentally beneficial way while mitigating carbon dioxide caused climate change e.g. global warming . Moreover the methanol product of reduction of carbon dioxide may be advantageously used as 1 a convenient energy storage medium which allows convenient and safe storage and handling 2 a readily transported and dispensed fuel including for methanol fuel cells and 3 a feedstock for synthetic hydrocarbons and corresponding products currently obtained from oil and gas resources including polymers biopolymers and even proteins that may be used for animal feed or human consumption. Importantly the use of methanol as an energy storage and transportation material generally eliminates many difficulties of using hydrogen for such purposes. The safety and versatility of methanol generally makes the disclosed reduction of carbon dioxide further desirable.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be further explained by the following examples which should not be construed by way of limiting the scope of the invention.

Chemicals and materials. All chemicals used were 98 purity and used as received from the vendor e.g. Aldrich without further purification. Either deionized or high purity water Nanopure Barnstead was used to prepare the aqueous electrolyte solutions.

Electrochemical system. The electrochemical system was composed of a standard two compartment electrolysis cell to separate the anode and cathode reactions. The compartments were separated by a porous glass frit or other ion conducting bridge . The electrolytes were used at concentrations of 0.1 M to 1 M with 0.5 M being a typical concentration. A concentration of between about 1 mM to 1 M of the catalysts were used. The particular electrolyte and particular catalyst of each given test were generally selected based upon what product or products were being created.

Referring to a flow diagram of an example method used in the electrochemical examples is shown. The method or process generally comprises a step or block a step or block a step or block a step or block and a step or block . The method may be implemented using the system .

In the step the electrodes and may be activated where appropriate. Bubbling of the carbon dioxide into the cell may be performed in the step . Electrolysis of the carbon dioxide into organic and or inorganic products may occur during step . In the step the products may be separated from the electrolyte. Analysis of the reduction products may be performed in the step .

The working electrode was of a known area. All potentials were measured with respect to a saturated calomel reference electrode Accumet . Before and during all electrolysis carbon dioxide Airgas was continuously bubbled through the electrolyte to saturate the solution. The resulting pH of the solution was maintained at about pH 3 to pH 8 with a suitable range depending on what product or products were being made. For example under constant carbon dioxide bubbling the pH levels of 10 mM solutions of 4 hydroxy pyridine pyridine and 4 tertbutyl pyridine were 4.7 5.28 and 5.55 respectively. For Nuclear Magnetic Resonance NMR experiments isotopically enriched C NaHCO 99 was obtained from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Inc.

Chemicals and materials. All chemicals used were analytical grade or higher. Either deionized or high purity water Nanopure Barnstead was used to prepare the aqueous electrolyte solutions.

Photoelectrochemical system. The photoelectrochemical system was composed of a Pyrex three necked flask containing 0.5 M KCl as supporting electrolyte and a 1 mM to 1 M catalyst e.g. 10 mM pyridine or pyridine derivative . The photocathode was a single crystal p type semiconductor etched for approximately 1 to 2 minutes in a bath of concentrated HNO HCl 2 1 v v prior to use. An ohmic contact was made to the back of the freshly etched crystal using an indium zinc 2 wt. Zn solder. The contact was connected to an external lead with conducting silver epoxy Epoxy Technology H31 covered in glass tubing and insulated using an epoxy cement Loctite 0151 Hysol to expose only the front face of the semiconductor to solution. All potentials were referenced against a saturated calomel electrode Accumet . The three electrode assembly was completed with a carbon rod counter electrode to minimize the reoxidation of reduced carbon dioxide products. During all electrolysis carbon dioxide gas Airgas was continuously bubbled through the electrolyte to saturate the solution. The resulting pH of the solution was maintained at about pH 3 to 8 e.g. pH 5.2 .

Referring to a flow diagram of an example method used in the photochemical examples is shown. The method or process generally comprises a step or block a step or block a step or block a step or block and a step or block . The method may be implemented using the system .

In the step the photoelectrode may be activated. Bubbling of the carbon dioxide into the cell may be performed in the step . Electrolysis of the carbon dioxide into the products may occur during step . In the step the products may be separated from the electrolyte. Analysis of the reduction products may be performed in the step .

Light sources. Four different light sources were used for the illumination of the p type semiconductor electrode. For initial electrolysis experiments a Hg Xe arc lamp USHIO UXM 200H was used in a lamp housing PTI Model A 1010 and powered by a PTI LTS 200 power supply. Similarly a Xe arc lamp USHIO UXL 151H was used in the same housing in conjunction with a PTI monochromator to illuminate the electrode at various specific wavelengths.

A fiber optic spectrometer Ocean Optics 52000 or a silicon photodetector Newport 818 SL silicon detector was used to measure the relative resulting power emitted through the monochromator. The flatband potential was obtained by measurements of the open circuit photovoltage during various irradiation intensities using the 200 watt W Hg Xe lamp 3 W cm 23 W cm . The photovoltage was observed to saturate at intensities above approximately 6 W cm.

For quantum yield determinations electrolysis was performed under illumination by two different light emitting diodes LEDs . A blue LED Luxeon V Dental Blue Future Electronics with a luminous output of 500 milliwatt mW 50 mW at 465 nanometers nm and a 20 nm full width at half maximum FWHM was driven at to a maximum rated current of 700 mA using a Xitanium Driver Advance Transformer Company . A Fraen collimating lens Future Electronics was used to direct the output light. The resultant power density that reached the window of the photoelectrochemical cell was determined to be 42 mW cm measured using a Scientech 364 thermopile power meter and silicon photodetector. The measured power density was assumed to be greater than the actual power density observed at the semiconductor face due to luminous intensity loss through the solution layer between the wall of the photoelectrochemical cell and the electrode.

Electrochemical experiments were generally performed using a CH Instruments potentiostat or a DC power supply with current logger to run bulk electrolysis experiments.

Gas Chromatography. The electrolysis samples were analyzed using a gas chromatograph HP 5890 GC equipped with a FID detector.

Spectrophotometry. The presence of formaldehyde and formic acid was also determined by the chromotropic acid assay.

Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. NMR spectra of electrolyte volumes after bulk electrolysis were also obtained using an automated Bruker Ultrashield 500 Plus spectrometer.

The following tables provide additional examples of embodiments of the present invention. In particular Table 2 shows faradaic efficiencies for formate HCOO production with a system employing a controlled potential electrolysis at 1.37V vs. SCE in COsaturated water with a 0.5M KCl electrolyte. The catalyst concentration in the cathode compartment was 30 mM. The anode compartment contained water with 0.1667M KSO. The electrolysis was carried out in a three chambered glass cell with separated cathode and anode chambers. Carbon dioxide was continuously bubbled on the cathode chamber. In Table 2 j mA cm represents average current density and FY represents Faradaic Yield which was calculated from the ppm of the formate measured by IC analysis on the catholyte solution collected after the electrolysis and the total charge passed during the electrolysis.

Table 3 illustrates faradaic efficiencies for formate production using tin cathodes with 30 mM 2 picoline catalyst in the cathode compartment with various electrolytes. The electrolytes were saturated with carbon dioxide and present in 0.5M concentrations.

Table 4 illustrates faradaic efficiencies for formate production using tin cathodes obtained from electrolysis in a divided H Cell with a controlled potential at 1.37V vs. SCE in SCE in COsaturated water with a 0.5M KCl electrolyte. The cathode compartment included a catalyst of 30 mM 2 picoline with the anode compartment including water with 0.1667M KSO. The cathode compartment and anode compartment were separated by a proton exchange membrane Selemion HSF . The pH was monitored continuously in situ by a glass electrode immersed in the cathode compartment.

Table 5 illustrates the effects of 2 picoline concentrations on faradaic efficiencies for formate production using tin electrodes. Without use of 2 picoline as a catalyst the average faradaic yield may be about 25 for the electrolysis in the COsaturated KCl solution.

Table 6 illustrates the effects of pH for formate production using tin cathodes. The pH was adjusted using HCl or KOH solution after saturating with CO.

Table 7 illustrates faradaic efficiencies for formate production using tin cathodes buffered at 4.5 pH. The system employed a controlled potential electrolysis 1.37V vs. SCE in COsaturated 0.5M KCl prepared in 0.2M phosphate buffer pH 4.5 Alfa Aesar . The catalyst in the cathode compartment was 1 mM 2 picoline with 0.1667M KSOin the anode compartment. The cathode compartment and anode compartment were separated by a proton exchange membrane.

Table 8 illustrates faradaic efficiencies for formate production using tin cathodes in water with an electrolyte including 0.25M KCl and 0.25M CsCl. The cathode compartment included 30 mM 2 picoline as a homogenous catalyst. The system employed a controlled potential electrolysis 1.37V vs. SCE in CO2 saturated 0.5M KCl. The anode compartment included 0.1667M K2SO4. The cathode compartment and anode compartment were separated by a proton exchange membrane. Without use of 2 picoline as a catalyst the average faradaic yield may be about 17.2 for the electrolysis in the CO2 saturated KCl and CsCl solution.

Carbon dioxide may be efficiently converted to value added products using either a minimum of electricity that may be generated from an alternate energy source or directly using visible light. Some processes described above may generate high energy density fuels that are not fossil based as well as being chemical feedstock that are not fossil or biologically based. Moreover the catalysts for the processes may be substituents sensitive and provide for selectivity of the value added products.

By way of example a fixed cathode e.g. stainless steel 2205 may be used in an electrochemical system where the electrolyte and or catalyst are altered to change the product mix. In a modular electrochemical system the cathodes may be swapped out with different materials to change the product mix. In a hybrid photoelectrochemical system the anode may use different photovoltaic materials to change the product mix.

Some embodiments of the present invention generally provide for new cathode materials new electrolyte materials and new sulfur and oxygen containing heterocyclic catalysts. Specific combinations of cathode materials electrolytes catalysts pH levels and or electrical potentials may be used to get a desired product. The organic products may include but are not limited to acetaldehyde acetone carbon carbon monoxide carbonates ethanol ethylene formaldehyde formic acid glyoxal glyoxylic acid graphite isopropanol methane methanol oxalate oxalic acid. Inorganic products may include but are not limited to polymers containing carbon dioxide. Specific process conditions may be established that maximize the carbon dioxide conversion to specific chemicals beyond methanol.

Cell parameters may be selected to minimize unproductive side reactions like Hevolution from water electrolysis. Choice of specific configurations of heterocyclic amine pyridine catalysts with engineered functional groups may be utilized in the system to achieve high faradaic rates. Process conditions described above may facilitate long life e.g. improved stability electrode and cell cycling and product recovery. The organic products created may include methanol formaldehyde formic acid glyoxal acetone and isopropanol using the same pyridine catalyst with different combinations of electrolytes cathode materials bubbling techniques and cell potentials. Heterocyclic amines related to pyridine may be used to improve reaction rates product yields cell voltages and or other aspects of the reaction. Heterocyclic catalysts that contain sulfur or oxygen may also be utilized in the carbon dioxide reduction.

Some embodiments of the present invention may provide cathode and electrolyte combinations for reducing carbon dioxide to products in commercial quantities. Catalytic reduction of carbon dioxide may be achieved using steel or other low cost cathodes. High faradaic yields e.g. 20 of organic products with steel and nickel alloy cathodes at ambient temperature and pressure may also be achieved. Copper based alloys used at the electrodes may remain stable for long term reduction of carbon dioxide. The relative low cost and abundance of the combinations described above generally opens the possibility of commercialization of electrochemical carbon dioxide reduction.

Various process conditions disclosed above including cathode materials cathode surface morphology electrolyte choice catalyst choice cell voltage pH level and manner in which the carbon dioxide is bubbled generally improve control of the reaction so that different products or product mixes may be made. Greater control over the reaction generally opens the possibility for commercial systems that are modular and adaptable to make different products. The new materials and process conditions combinations generally have high faradaic efficiency and relatively low cell potentials which allows an energy efficient cell to be constructed.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

