---

title: Three dimensional (3D) printing of epoxy, hardener, and parts of an object to be assembled later
abstract: A three dimensional (3D) printer and method for dispensing a material to form a 3D substructure and for dispensing an adhesive onto the 3D substructure. The adhesive printed onto the 3D substructure may be used to attach the 3D substructure to another substructure such as a conventionally formed substructure or another 3D printed substructure. Printing the adhesive using the 3D printer during the same 3D manufacturing process used to print the 3D substructure may improve precision of the location at which the adhesive is dispensed, thereby improving the quality of superstructure created by joining the substructures. An embodiment of the present teachings may decrease the overall time and cost to attach substructures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09527241&OS=09527241&RS=09527241
owner: XEROX CORPORATION
number: 09527241
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
The present teachings relate to three dimensional 3D printing and more particularly to the printing of a 3D structure and the assembly of the 3D printed structure with other 3D printed structures or structures manufactured using other techniques.

The use of traditional manufacturing techniques is rapidly moving toward digital manufacturing. Additive or subtractive manufacturing herein collectively 3D printing provides many advantages over traditional manufacturing techniques. For example intricate structural designs that could not be formed previously using conventional techniques may be formed using 3D printing. Further 3D printing provides a cost effective method for manufacturing batch sizes as small as a single unit. Designs may be created using computer aided design CAD software by an end user or a user may download web based software instructions to create a needed repair part or desired decorative structure at home or small business. Different print heads can add a plurality of different materials to the object being created e.g. rubber plastics paper polyurethane like materials metals etc. .

Some 3D printed substructures may require assembly with other substructures after printing. For example a 3D printed substructure may be attached to one or more other 3D printed substructures to one or more conventionally manufactured substructure or to both using an adhesive. For assembly two or more 3D printed structures may be transported after printing to an assembly station where an adhesive is manually applied to one or both substructures. The structures are then assembled using the adhesive to secure the two or more structures together.

A 3D printed structure and method that allows more rapid or convenient assembly of parts would be desirable.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of one or more embodiments of the present teachings. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is it intended to identify key or critical elements of the present teachings nor to delineate the scope of the disclosure. Rather its primary purpose is merely to present one or more concepts in simplified form as a prelude to the detailed description presented later.

An embodiment of the present teachings may include a system for forming a structure the system including a three dimensional 3D printer. The 3D printer may include a first reservoir comprising a polymer a second reservoir comprising an adhesive a nozzle configured to dispense the polymer onto a platform to form a 3D substructure and a nozzle configured to dispense the adhesive onto the 3D substructure.

In another embodiment a method for forming a structure may include providing a three dimensional 3D printer wherein the printer includes a first reservoir comprising a polymer and a second reservoir comprising an adhesive. The method may further include dispensing the polymer from the first reservoir through a nozzle to print a 3D substructure using the 3D printer and dispensing the adhesive from the second reservoir through a nozzle onto the 3D substructure using the 3D printer.

It should be noted that some details of the FIGS. have been simplified and are drawn to facilitate understanding of the present teachings rather than to maintain strict structural accuracy detail and scale.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present teachings examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Attaching a 3D printed substructure to other 3D printed substructures to one or more conventionally manufactured substructure or to both using an adhesive requires the manual application of adhesive to the printed substructure. Manual application of adhesive may suffer from lack of precision high cost and potential for error.

In an embodiment of the present teachings one or more adhesives may be applied by a 3D printer itself during formation of the 3D printed substructure for example using one of the embodiments described below. Application of an adhesive by a 3D printer may improve adhesive placement precision and reduce cost and the potential for error. For purposes of this application a substructure or subassembly is a structure that will be attached to another substructure to form a completed assembly i.e. superstructure .

Printing of a 3D substructure and an adhesive and assembly of two 3D printed substructures to form a completed assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present teachings is depicted in the cross sections of . depicts a 3D printer including a platform and a plurality of material supplies for example a plurality of reservoirs that supply various liquid viscous materials to be printed. The reservoirs may be supplied by different printheads or by different reservoirs in the same printhead although other configurations are contemplated. In an embodiment a material such as a polymer is dispensed e.g. ejected by the printer from reservoir B through a nozzle B onto the platform . The nozzles and reservoirs may be part of a printhead . During printing the printhead moves in X Y and Z directions to dispense a plurality of layers A C onto platform to form a 3D substructure . Layers may be about 100 m or less in thickness. 3D printing of structures and substructures is well known in the art.

Subsequently an adhesive is dispensed by the printer through nozzle A onto the substructure to provide a dispensed adhesive as depicted in . The dispensed adhesive may be an air curable adhesive an epoxy for example polyurethane acrylic cyanoacrylate etc. a thermoplastic a thermoset etc. The adhesive may be dispensed into a recess in the 3D substructure as depicted in or over a flat surface or other structural topography. Because the adhesive is dispensed using the 3D printer the location and volume of adhesive may be precisely controlled. It will be appreciated that in another embodiment the adhesive may be dispensed prior to completing substructure for example after depositing one or more of layers A and B but before depositing layer C.

In an embodiment the adhesive may be an air curable adhesive. A particular type of air curable adhesive may have various desirable qualities for a particular application but an unacceptably short working time. In an embodiment an optional sealer may be dispensed from reservoir C through nozzle C onto the top layer C to form a film covering that covers dispensed adhesive as depicted in . The film covering reduces exposure of the adhesive to air thus slowing a cure rate of the adhesive . The film covering may be formed to include a tab portion for easy removal of the film covering . The formation of material overhangs such as that required to print tab of film covering using the 3D printer may be performed by an artisan skilled in the art of 3D printing.

In an alternate embodiment instead of printing the film covering using a liquid viscous material the printer may include a tape and reel assembly including a supply reel A and a take up reel B. A tape assembly includes a plurality of preformed solid film coverings . In this embodiment the printer is configured to dispense a solid film covering onto the top layer C and to cover dispensed adhesive as depicted in . In either case where the film covering is printed with a viscous material and cured or dispensed as a solid preformed section the film covering is removed to expose the adhesive prior to connecting the substructures described below.

In another embodiment the dispensed adhesive may be for example an adhesive that is curable using heat or ultraviolet UV light such that the dispensed adhesive has a sufficient working time without use or protection of a film covering . Further adhesive may be a B staged adhesive wherein after depositing the adhesive is partially cured prior to assembly. Subsequently the substructures may be assembled hours or days later at which time the B staged adhesive is fully cured for example heat cured after assembly of the substructures.

Next the first substructure and the second substructure are connected together using the one or more adhesives to form a completed structure or assembly similar to that depicted in . In an embodiment where adhesives and are two different components of a two part epoxy adhesive the components may combine to form an epoxy as depicted in . Mixing of the epoxy components may be enhanced and improved using an X Y scrub of the two substructures if the design and tolerances of substructures allow an X Y scrub. For purposes of the present teachings an X Y scrub includes the use of relative planar movement between two substructures in the X and Y directions to enhance mixing of the two part epoxy components interposed therebetween. Connection of the two substructures may include a curing process such as a heat cure or a UV light cure to set one or more of the adhesives .

In an embodiment the 3D printed substructure may be printed to have a rough surface texture to increase surface area at the adhesive location. This prevents the need for a final assembler person or machine to roughen the surface for example by manually sanding prior to assembly.

In another embodiment substructures similar to substructures may be formed using a 3D printing process that includes the use of laser heating of a powdered solid or a subtractive process in which a volume of raw material is cut to remove excess material. The viscous adhesive layers and film covering may be then be applied to the substructures using the 3D printer as described above.

Thus embodiments of the present teachings may include the use of 3D printing technology in a single step manufacturing operation to create a set of parts for assembly. An embodiment may include printing one or more 3D printed substructures using a 3D printer then printing an adhesive directly onto the 3D printed part using the 3D printer that also prints the 3D printed part. Direct application of the assembly adhesive as part of the printing operation may enable increased assembly automation reduce assembly variability and may result in reduced cycle times overhead costs energy input and part fall out rate. Substructures may then be conveniently assembled and secured together without requiring the final assembler person or machine to select and apply the adhesive. Printed parts including one or more 3D printed adhesives may be shipped by a manufacturer to a user at a different location for example a subcontractor manufacturing site a construction site or another location for later assembly. In this embodiment the original manufacturer specifies the location of the adhesive and also prints correct quantity of adhesive thus reducing the potential for error in adhesive placement adhesive composition and or adhesive quantity by the final assembler.

Due to the curing rate of some adhesives the printed adhesive may have an expiration date based on the cure rate of the adhesive. A printing date of the 3D substructure may be based on the expiration date of the printed adhesive such that the substructure may be printed and shipped by the manufacturer then assembled later by the user prior to expiration of the adhesive.

In an embodiment during design two or more substructures one or more adhesives e.g. one or more epoxies including one or more resins and hardeners and any desired film coverings are specified for example as CAD data and sent to a 3D printer that is capable of manufacturing the various elements. In an embodiment the CAD software may specify a particular adhesive based on the type of material from which the part will be formed for example through a main software program through a plug in or an application programming interface API . Submission of the CAD data and production specification may be done by direct connection network or wirelessly e.g. from a mobile device . The 3D printer creates the parts and the appropriately located epoxies hardeners and coverings using 3D printing methods. The 3D printer may include separate heads for each material or one head including a plurality of materials. Each different material may be printed through a separate nozzle although it is contemplated that each material from a separate material reservoir may be printed through a single nozzle. A plurality of layers where each layer is less than one micron thick are serially applied by the printer building up the substructures and dispensing the one or more epoxies hardeners and coverings. Depending on the specification and the capabilities of the 3D printer an individual part including its associated epoxies hardeners and coverings may be produced in a single manufacturing operation. Each part i.e. substructure may be printed separately or some or all parts and their associated epoxies hardeners and coverings may be produced in a single manufacturing operation. In some embodiments the materials for the substructures epoxies hardeners and or coverings may be included in the same layer or layers for example when two or more of these materials are on the same physical plane in 3D space.

In an embodiment an epoxy resin and hardener may be formulated to cure relatively quickly when they come into contact with each other. In another embodiment the adhesive may cure upon application of a catalyst for example heat UV light a chemical catalyst etc. In an embodiment two subassemblies are physically attached together solely using the 3D printed adhesive and no other material. In other embodiments a screen printed adhesive sprayed adhesive etc. and or clamps or latches may be used in conjunction with the 3D printed adhesive to hold the subassemblies together.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the present teachings are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 1 to 5. In certain cases the numerical values as stated for the parameter can take on negative values. In this case the example value of range stated as less than 10 can assume negative values e.g. 1 2 3 10 20 30 etc.

While the present teachings have been illustrated with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications can be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it will be appreciated that while the process is described as a series of acts or events the present teachings are not limited by the ordering of such acts or events. Some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those described herein. Also not all process stages may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more aspects or embodiments of the present teachings. It will be appreciated that structural components and or processing stages can be added or existing structural components and or processing stages can be removed or modified. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. The term at least one of is used to mean one or more of the listed items can be selected. Further in the discussion and claims herein the term on used with respect to two materials one on the other means at least some contact between the materials while over means the materials are in proximity but possibly with one or more additional intervening materials such that contact is possible but not required. Neither on nor over implies any directionality as used herein. The term conformal describes a coating material in which angles of the underlying material are preserved by the conformal material. The term about indicates that the value listed may be somewhat altered as long as the alteration does not result in nonconformance of the process or structure to the illustrated embodiment. Finally exemplary indicates the description is used as an example rather than implying that it is an ideal. Other embodiments of the present teachings will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosure herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the present teachings being indicated by the following claims.

Terms of relative position as used in this application are defined based on a plane parallel to the conventional plane or working surface of a workpiece regardless of the orientation of the workpiece. The term horizontal or lateral as used in this application is defined as a plane parallel to the conventional plane or working surface of a workpiece regardless of the orientation of the workpiece. The term vertical refers to a direction perpendicular to the horizontal. Terms such as on side as in sidewall higher lower over top and under are defined with respect to the conventional plane or working surface being on the top surface of the workpiece regardless of the orientation of the workpiece.

