---

title: Managed electric vehicle traction battery system
abstract: Described embodiments include an electric vehicle battery system and a method. The electric vehicle battery system includes a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a vehicle. The system includes a data-gathering module configured to monitor or test an aspect of the traction battery pack and in response to generate a traction battery pack status report. The system includes a gatekeeper module configured to permit or deny the rechargeable traction battery pack (i) supplying electric power to the propulsion system or (ii) receiving a recharge, the permit or deny in response to a management instruction issued by a remote battery manager system. The system includes a communication system configured to communicate with the remote battery manager. In an embodiment, the system includes an on-board charging system configured to recharge the rechargeable traction battery pack.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002537&OS=09002537&RS=09002537
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09002537
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130522
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 900 337 entitled MANAGEMENT OF A REMOTE ELECTRIC VEHICLE TRACTION BATTERY SYSTEM naming William D. Duncan Roderick A. Hyde and Jordin T. Kare as inventors filed 22 May 2013 is related to the present application.

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes an electric vehicle battery system. The electric vehicle battery system includes a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a vehicle. The system includes a data gathering module configured to monitor or test an aspect of the traction battery pack and in response to generate a traction battery pack status report. The system includes a gatekeeper module configured to permit or deny the rechargeable traction battery pack i supplying electric power to the propulsion system or ii receiving a recharge the permit or deny in response to a management instruction issued by a remote battery manager system. The system includes a communication system configured to communicate with the remote battery manager. In an embodiment the system includes an on board charging system configured to recharge the rechargeable traction battery pack.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes monitoring or testing an aspect of a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a vehicle. The method includes generating a traction battery pack status report in response to a result of the monitoring or testing. The method includes transmitting the traction battery pack status report to a remote battery manager. The method includes receiving a management instruction from the remote battery manager responsive to the traction battery pack status report. The method includes permitting or denying the rechargeable traction battery pack i supplying electric power to the propulsion system of the vehicle or ii receiving a recharge in response to the received management instruction.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes an electric vehicle battery system. The electric vehicle battery system includes a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a vehicle. The system includes a data gathering module configured to monitor or test an aspect of the traction battery pack in response to generate a traction battery pack status report. The system includes a compliance module configured to evaluate the traction battery pack status report with respect to a management criteria assigned to the rechargeable traction battery pack. The system includes a manager module configured to issue a management instruction responsive to the evaluation of the battery status report. The system includes a gatekeeper module configured to permit or deny in response to the management instruction the rechargeable traction battery pack i supplying electric power to the propulsion system or ii receiving a recharge. In an embodiment the system includes a communication system configured to communicate information based on the traction battery pack status report or the issued management instruction with a remote third party battery manager.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes monitoring or testing an aspect of a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a vehicle. The method includes generating a traction battery pack status report in response to a result of the monitoring or testing. The method includes evaluating the traction battery pack status report with respect to a management criteria assigned to the rechargeable traction battery pack. The method includes issuing a management instruction responsive to the evaluation of the battery status report. The method includes permitting or denying the rechargeable traction battery pack i supplying electric power to the propulsion system of the vehicle or ii receiving a recharge in response to the management instruction.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various implementations by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred implementation will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware implementation alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible implementations by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any implementation to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the implementation will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures suitable to implement an operation. Electronic circuitry for example may manifest one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various logic functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media are configured to bear a device detectable implementation if such media hold or transmit a special purpose device instruction set operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example this may manifest as an update or other modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or other programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or otherwise invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of any functional operations described below. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed directly as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example C or other code sequences can be compiled directly or otherwise implemented in high level descriptor languages e.g. a logic synthesizable language a hardware description language a hardware design simulation and or other such similar mode s of expression . Alternatively or additionally some or all of the logical expression may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description or other circuitry model before physical implementation in hardware especially for basic operations or timing critical applications. Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other common structures in light of these teachings.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various embodiments described herein can be implemented individually and or collectively by various types of electro mechanical systems having a wide range of electrical components such as hardware software firmware and or virtually any combination thereof and a wide range of components that may impart mechanical force or motion such as rigid bodies spring or torsional bodies hydraulics electro magnetically actuated devices and or virtually any combination thereof. Consequently as used herein electro mechanical system includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry operably coupled with a transducer e.g. an actuator a motor a piezoelectric crystal a Micro Electro Mechanical System MEMS etc. electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem module communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. and or any non electrical analog thereto such as optical or other analogs. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that examples of electro mechanical systems include but are not limited to a variety of consumer electronics systems medical devices as well as other systems such as motorized transport systems factory automation systems security systems and or communication computing systems. Those skilled in the art will recognize that electro mechanical as used herein is not necessarily limited to a system that has both electrical and mechanical actuation except as context may dictate otherwise.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will also recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will further recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into an image processing system. A typical image processing system may generally include one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing lens position and or velocity control motors for moving distorting lenses to give desired focuses . An image processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in digital still systems and or digital motion systems.

Those skilled in the art will likewise recognize that at least some of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch sensitive screen or display surface an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive screen or display surface or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive screen or display surface is illustrated as a touch sensitive display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive screen or display surface joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

The environment includes an electric vehicle battery system . The system includes a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system illustrated by the electric motor of the vehicle . In an embodiment the rechargeable traction battery pack includes a set of any number of preferably identical batteries or individual battery cells. For example illustrates the individual batteries as individual battery . individual battery . and individual battery .. The batteries may be configured in a series parallel or a mixture of both to deliver the desired voltage capacity or power density. Battery technology may be developed by companies other than the companies that manufacture electrically propelled vehicles. For example a current model of the Toyota Prius uses a traction battery that is a sealed 38 module nickel metal hydride NiMH battery pack providing 273.6 volts 6.5 A h capacity supplied by Japan s Panasonic EV Energy Co. The battery pack is normally charged between 40 60 of maximum capacity to prolong battery life as well as allow headroom for regenerative braking. A discharge below 20 of capacity is considered an adverse event. Additionally batteries have a different life cycle than the vehicles they power. As a result the rechargeable traction battery pack may be owned by an entity different from the entity that owns the vehicle. The vehicle and the traction battery pack may be leased to an operator of the vehicle under separate leases each having different terms conditions and payment schedules.

In an embodiment the rechargeable traction battery pack includes a rechargeable traction battery pack configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of the vehicle illustrated by the electric motor . In an embodiment the rechargeable traction battery pack includes a rechargeable fuel cell configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the rechargeable traction battery pack is permanently installed in the vehicle. The permanently installed rechargeable battery may be dismounted and replaced for example like a shock absorber fuel tank or engine may be dismounted and replaced. The battery installation is not structured for removal or dismounting in the ordinary course of using the traction battery pack i.e. not structured for being readily swappable or dismountable.

In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor or test discharge rates or discharge levels or recharge rates or recharge levels of the traction battery pack . In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor or test an abnormal condition or state of the traction battery pack. In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor or test a temperature of one or more cells of the traction battery pack. In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor or test a charge state indicator of one or more cells of the traction battery pack. For example a charge state may include a minimum or a maximum charge state of the traction battery pack. For example a charge state may include a usage history over time or charging events. In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor or test a parameter of the traction battery pack indicative of a remaining usable life. In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to monitor electric power supplied to the vehicle propulsion system. In an embodiment the data gathering module is configured to gather data indicative of an electric power usage pattern. In an embodiment the data gathering module is further configured to gather data indicative of an attempt to override or circumvent a denial of i supplying electric power to the vehicle propulsion system or ii receiving a recharge imposed by the gatekeeper module . In an embodiment the data gathering module is further configured to include an identifier of the traction battery pack with the traction battery pack status report. In an embodiment the data gathering module is further configured to generate a traction battery pack status report in response to a schedule an occurrence of an anomaly a content of the battery pack status report or a presence of the vehicle at a particular location. For example a traction battery pack status report may be automatically generated nightly or monthly in response to an event i.e. when charging or when a charge state is reached i.e. when discharging or when a discharge state is reached or in response to a location i.e. when at or not at vehicle owner s address .

In an embodiment the data gathering module is further configured to generate a traction battery pack status report in response to a violation of operational criteria established for the traction battery pack. For example the report may be generated promptly within one hour or within one day of a violation of the operational criteria. For example a violation may include a violation of discharge rate or limits or violation of recharge rate or limits. For example the violation may be reported on a yes or no basis or on a score generated across multiple scored events. For example if a scoring system is used one or more violations may each be graded and a report generated when total score exceeds a criterion. For example a score of 100 may indicate a full compliance and a score of zero may indicate maximally bad. In an embodiment the data gathering module is further configured to include in the traction battery pack status report a current or previous location. For example a location may be reported using GPS coordinates or geographical reference such as an address. In an embodiment the data gathering module may be implemented using hardware and or firmware. In an embodiment the data gathering module may be implemented using a computing device programmed by software.

In an embodiment the gatekeeper module further includes an electronically controlled switch configured to permit or deny the rechargeable traction battery pack i supplying electric power to the vehicle propulsion system or ii receiving a recharge. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module is further configured to deny the supplying or the recharging if a periodic authorizing management instruction is not received. For example for continued operation of the rechargeable traction battery pack the gatekeeper must receive authorization to continue operation on first of day or each week or month. Otherwise the gatekeeper goes into deny status. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module is further configured to deny the supplying or the recharging if a receipt responsive to a transmitted battery pack status report is not received from the remote battery manager. For example this embodiment would prevent a user from shutting off the communication system or refusing to relay signals to the remote battery manager system. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module includes a decoder circuit configured to decode a management instruction generated by a remote battery manager system. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module is hardened against tampering or removal from traction battery pack or from the vehicle . For example the gatekeeper module may be hardened against tampering from short circuiting or disconnection from traction battery pack. For example the gatekeeper module may be hardened against a physical removal by prying or hammering. For example the gatekeeper module may be hardened against hacking or unauthorized reprogramming. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module is further configured to permit supplying electric power to the vehicle propulsion system in a limp home mode. For example a limp home mode may limit vehicle top speed to 20 mph. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module is further configured to permit supplying electric power to the electric motor in a limp home mode in response to another management instruction generated by the remote battery manager system. In an embodiment the management instruction includes a management instruction issued by a remote battery manager system responsive to the battery pack status report. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module may be implemented using hardware and or firmware. In an embodiment the gatekeeper module may be implemented using a computing device programmed by software.

In an embodiment the communication system is further configured to encode and decode communications with the remote battery manager. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to communicate with the remote battery manager over a private network a public network or a cellular phone. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to communicate with the remote battery manager over a network access device owned or operated by a user or lessee of the rechargeable traction battery pack. For example a user can receive a file containing the battery pack status report from the communication system and forward it via their email account or cellphone to the remote battery manager. In an embodiment the communication system is further configured to communicate over a wireless communication link or over wired communication link for example such by a plugin connector or other physical connector. In an embodiment the communication system includes a standalone communication system or a vehicle based communication system. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to transmit the traction battery pack status report to the remote battery manager. In an embodiment a frequency or schedule of the transmitting the traction battery status report is responsive to a compliance history with the management criteria assigned to the traction battery pack. For example users having a poor compliance history can be required to generate or transmit the traction battery report more frequently than users with a good compliance history. For example the compliance history may be scored across multiple scored events. For example each event of the multiple events may be graded and report generated when total score is below a threshold criterion. For example a score of 100 may be indicative of a full compliance and a score of zero may be indicative of maximally bad. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to receive the management instruction from the remote battery manager. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to receive the management instruction from the remote battery manager via a user interface. For example the remote battery manager sends the user or lessee a code to input such as a QRL code.

In an alternative embodiment an electric vehicle battery system includes a rechargeable battery pack configured to supply electric power to a vehicle. The system includes a data gathering module configured to monitor or test an aspect of the battery pack and in response to generate a battery pack status report. The system includes a gatekeeper module configured to permit or deny the rechargeable battery pack i supplying electric power to the system or ii receiving a recharge the permit or deny in response to a management instruction issued by a remote battery manager system. The system includes a communication system configured to communicate with the remote battery manager. In an embodiment the rechargeable battery pack is configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of the vehicle. For example the rechargeable battery pack may be configured to supply electric power to a propulsion system of a boat or ship. For example the rechargeable battery pack may supply electric power to ferry boat or a submarine. In an embodiment the rechargeable battery pack is configured to supply electric power to a system of a vehicle other than a propulsion system of the vehicle. For example the rechargeable battery pack may be configured to supply electric power used by robot or machine to lift or maneuver a work piece. For example the rechargeable battery pack may be configured to supply electric power to a system used by an aircraft or ship in conjunction with performance of its intended purpose such an emergency backup power on an airplane.

In an embodiment of the observation operation the monitoring or testing an aspect further includes gathering data indicative of an attempt to override or circumvent a denial of i supplying electric power to the vehicle propulsion system or ii receiving a recharge imposed by the gatekeeper module. In an embodiment of the reporting operation the generating a traction battery pack status report further includes generating a traction battery pack status report in response to a schedule an occurrence of an anomaly a content of the battery pack status report or a presence of the vehicle at a particular location.

In an embodiment the traction battery pack has a first owner and the vehicle has a second owner. In an embodiment the traction battery pack is leased from the first owner. For example the owner of the vehicle may be the lessee or a purchaser of the vehicle may be the lessee.

In an embodiment the electronics package includes a communication system configured to communicate information based on the traction battery pack status report or the issued management instruction with a remote third party battery manager. In an embodiment the communication system is configured to communicate wirelessly with a remote third party battery manager. In an embodiment the compliance module is configured to evaluate the traction battery pack status report with respect to i a management criteria assigned to the rechargeable traction battery pack and ii a compliance with a lease payment term received from the remote third party battery manager. In an embodiment the management criteria include an updated management criteria received from a remote third party battery manager. For example updated management criteria may include a modified updated or replacement management criteria. In an embodiment the traction battery pack has a first owner and the vehicle has a second owner. In an embodiment the traction battery pack is leased from the first owner.

In an embodiment the electronics package includes a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be at least substantially similar to the computing environment of that includes the thin computing device or may be at least similar to the thin computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be at least substantially similar to the general purpose computing environment having general purpose computing device or may be at least substantially similar to the general purpose computing device . In an embodiment the electronics package includes a computer storage media . In an embodiment the computer storage media may be at least substantially similar to the computer storage media described in conjunction with the general purpose computing device of . In an embodiment the electronics package includes a power supply .

In an embodiment the compliance module is further configured to evaluate an absence of a traction battery pack status report pertaining to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system with respect to the management criteria. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system. The denial is in response to an evaluation of the absence of the traction battery pack status report. For example an authorization to supply electric power to the propulsion system or receive a recharge may be revoked based upon failure to report a battery history in accordance with an agreed upon schedule contained in the management criteria assigned to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system.

In an embodiment the compliance module is further configured to evaluate an absence of a traction battery pack lease payment pertaining to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system with respect to the management criteria. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack permission to supply electric power to the propulsion system. The denial is in response to an evaluation of the absence of a traction battery pack lease payment. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system. For example the denying or de authorizing may be intermittent or conditional. For instance a lease agreement may specify usage terms i.e. limits on minimum charge level on charging rates on energy usage over time etc. . For example the manager module may de authorize a use that would violate the lease agreement terms while permitting another use within the lease agreement terms. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system. The denial is responsive to an evaluation of misuse in the battery status report. For example misuse may include failing to stay within agreed upon charge discharge parameters or tampering with a gatekeeper module of the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system. The denial is responsive to an evaluation of a time or geographical limit violation with respect to the management criteria respectively assigned to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack receiving a recharge. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction permitting the identified rechargeable traction battery pack to supply electric power to the propulsion system. In an embodiment the management instruction generated by the manager module includes an instruction permitting the identified rechargeable traction battery pack to receive a recharge. In an embodiment the manager module is configured to generate a management instruction or initiate a billing responsive to the evaluation of the battery status report. In an embodiment the billing is at least partially based on an evaluation electric power supplied to the propulsion system of the vehicle. In an embodiment the billing is at least partially based on an evaluation of a misuse in the battery status report.

In an embodiment the traction battery pack has a first owner and the vehicle has a second owner. In an embodiment the traction battery pack is leased from the first owner. In an embodiment the battery manager system is operated by the first owner. In an embodiment the battery manager system is operated by a third party having a contractual relationship with the first owner.

In an embodiment the battery manager system includes a computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be at least substantially similar to the computing environment of that includes the thin computing device or may be at least similar to the thin computing device . In an embodiment the computing device may be at least substantially similar to the general purpose computing environment having general purpose computing device or may be at least substantially similar to the general purpose computing device . In an embodiment the electronics package includes a computer storage media . In an embodiment the computer storage media may be at least substantially similar to the computer storage media described in conjunction with the general purpose computing device of . In an embodiment the electronics package includes a power supply .

In an alternative embodiment a battery manager system includes an asset database. The asset database includes records related at least two rechargeable battery pack systems configured to supply electric power to a vehicle and a management criteria respectively assigned to each rechargeable battery pack system. The battery manager system includes a compliance module configured to evaluate a battery pack status report pertaining to an identified rechargeable battery pack system of the least two rechargeable battery pack systems hereafter the identified rechargeable battery pack system the evaluation with respect to the management criteria assigned to the identified rechargeable battery pack system. The battery manager system includes a manager module configured to generate a management instruction responsive to the evaluation of the battery status report. The battery manager system includes a communication system configured communicate with the identified rechargeable battery pack system.

In an embodiment of the reception operation the receiving includes receiving a traction battery pack status report pertaining to an identified rechargeable traction battery pack system transmitted by a communications system mounted on a mobile electric vehicle. In an embodiment of the evaluation operation the evaluating includes evaluating an absence of a traction battery pack status report pertaining to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system with respect to the management criteria assigned to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system. In an embodiment of the evaluation operation the evaluating includes evaluating an absence of a traction battery pack lease payment pertaining to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system with respect to the management criteria respectively assigned to the identified rechargeable traction battery pack system. In embodiment of the compliance operation the issuing includes issuing a management instruction denying the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system. In embodiment of the compliance operation the issuing includes issuing a management instruction permitting the identified rechargeable traction battery pack supplying electric power to the propulsion system.

In embodiment the traction battery pack has a first owner and the vehicle has a second owner. In embodiment the traction battery pack is leased from the first owner.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

