---

title: Streamlined parasitic modeling with common device profile
abstract: An embodiment method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile includes importing, using a processor, a simulated middle end of line (MEOL) profile into a characterization tool, generating, using the processor, a MEOL pattern based on the simulated MEOL profile, import, using the processor, the MEOL pattern and a real profile into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table, updating, using the processor, capacitance data in the characterization tool based on the MEOL capacitance table generated, and generating, using the processor, a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726212&OS=08726212&RS=08726212
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd.
number: 08726212
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130221
---
A foundry may employ a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction RCX tool for microchip design. The RCX tool permits extraction of resistance capacitance and inductance of the on chip metal interconnects.

When the foundry applies the RCX tool to a new process feature the RCX tool typically generates process information corresponding to the new process feature. The foundry may want to share the process information with a customer. By doing so the customer can develop a product implementing the new process feature. However in order to protect sensitive information related to the new process feature the foundry may have to share the process information with the customer in a less accurate format.

The foundry may also want to share the process information with the software company that developed the RCX tool. By doing so the software company can improve the RCX tool. However because the software company may provide the RCX tool to numerous other foundries the foundry may end up inadvertently aiding its competitors and or disclosing sensitive information.

Corresponding numerals and symbols in the different figures generally refer to corresponding parts unless otherwise indicated. The figures are drawn to clearly illustrate the relevant aspects of the embodiments and are not necessarily drawn to scale.

The making and using of the present embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative and do not limit the scope of the disclosure.

The present disclosure will be described with respect to embodiments in a specific context namely the design process associated with a fin field effect transistor FinFET middle end of line MEOL structure. The disclosure may also be applied however to design processes for other integrated circuits electronic structures and the like.

Referring now to a conventional process development flow inside a foundry is illustrated for reference. In block a new process feature is developed. By way of example the new process feature may be the design for a new process node a new fin field effect transistor FinFET structure and so on. In block a real profile is developed based on the new process feature. In block the foundry applies the real profile to a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction RCX tool in order to optimize the process and or to generate benchmark results for the new process feature.

In block the foundry identifies any features within the new process feature that may be sensitive or contain propriety information. Those features incorporating sensitive or proprietary information are then simplified approximated generalized simulated and so on through an effective profile fitting as shown in block . The effective profile protects the sensitive or proprietary information and prevents unintended disclosure to third parties e.g. competitors . As shown in because some of the features of the new process feature have been manipulated through the effective profile fitting to protect the sensitive or proprietary information an accuracy gap a.k.a. accuracy loss exists between the real profile development of block and the effective profile fitting of block .

In block the effective profile fitting is used to develop a two and a half dimension 2D RCX techfile. Once developed the 2.5D RCX techfile may be shared with external customers outside the foundry . As shown in block those customers may perform their own process evaluation of the new process feature and generate benchmark results. Unfortunately the benchmark results generated by the foundry based on the real profile and the benchmark results generated by the external customers based on the effective profile may be significantly different. This is due at least in part to the accuracy gap .

While permitting a difference to exist between the benchmarks of the foundry and the external customer may be undesirable it may be the only prudent or commercially reasonable way for the foundry to protect the sensitive information in the real profile when the conventional process flow of is employed.

Referring now to another conventional process development flow inside a foundry is illustrated for reference. In the model development phase a three dimensional 3D real profile is generated from a new process feature. Again the new process feature may contain sensitive information of the foundry . Therefore in block an effective profile fitting takes place in order to generate the 3D effective profile in block . As shown an accuracy gap exists between the 3D real profile in block and the 3D effective profile in block due to the effective profile fitting .

In the tech file development phase a 2.5D RCX effective profile is developed in block based on the 3D effective profile generated in the model development phase . Next in block a 2.5D RCX tech file characterization file is generated by a characterization tool. Generation of the 2.5D RCX tech file characterization file typically involves dividing the new design feature into patterns and using a look up table to determine the capacitance of those patterns. Thereafter in block a 2.5D RCX technology file is created based on the 2.5D RCX tech file characterization file.

In the customer extraction phase the 2.5D RCX technology file is made available to external customers. Next an external customer extracts a product design from the design database and applies that product design to a 2.5D RCX tool in block . As such the external customer is able to generate an RCX result as shown in block . Based on the RCX result the external customer is able to evaluate whether the new process feature developed by the foundry is suitable for use in the product corresponding to the product design extracted from the design database . Unfortunately the evaluation by the external customer may be negatively affected by the accuracy gap between the 3D real profile and the 3D effective profile. However use of the 3D effective profile may be the only prudent way for the foundry to protect the sensitive or proprietary information found the real profile when the conventional process flow of is employed.

Referring now to an embodiment development flow inside a foundry is illustrated. As will be more fully explained below when the embodiment development flow is used the accuracy gap found in the development flows of is eliminated. Therefore the external customer is able to evaluate whether a new process feature is suitable for use in their product using a real profile instead of an effective profile. Moreover the foundry is able to provide feedback to the company that designed the RCX tool so that the RCX tool can be improved without disclosing sensitive or proprietary information to the company which may also provide that same RCX tool to competitors of the foundry .

As part of the tech file development phase the foundry provides the company that designed the RCX characterization tool with a fake MEOL profile in block . The fake MEOL profile may include simplified approximated generalized structure for new process feature for example ideal FinFET device profile. The fake MOEL profile are developed by the foundry and based on the new process feature that was designed by the foundry . The fake MEOL profile does not reveal the actual structure or design of sensitive features within the new process feature. Rather the fake MEOL profile are simplified approximated generalized simulated and so on in order to maintain the secrecy of the new process feature or features found in a 3D real profile in block .

In block the fake profile is fed into the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool as part of the model development phase . The tool generates the MEOL pattern in block . As used herein the tool may refer to software hardware firmware or a combination thereof. The MEOL pattern of block and the 3D real profile of block are then input into a field solver e.g. a 3D golden field solver in block . The field solver in block then generates a MEOL capacitance table in block . The MEOL capacitance table in block is then read back to the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block so that a capacitance database therein can be updated with the newly generated capacitance information.

Next the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block generates the 2.5 RCX technology file in block . The technology file in block is then provided to the customer for input into the 2.5D RCX tool in block in the customer extraction phase . In an embodiment the 2.5D RCX technology file is transparently provided to the customer.

Thereafter to determine if the new process feature is suitable for a particular product of the customer the customer obtains a design for a particular product from a design database in block . The design is then applied to the 2.5D RCX tool in block to generate the RCX result in block . If the result is within acceptable parameters or meets certain thresholds the customer knows that the new process feature e.g. new FinFET developed by the foundry is suitable for that particular customer product e.g. new customer chip . If however the result in block is outside or beyond acceptable limits the customer knows that the new process feature that the foundry developed may not be suitable or the best choice for that particular customer product.

Notably as shown in the customer receives a 2.5D RCX tech file that is based on the 3D real profile. Because the 3D real profile is employed no effective profile fitting is needed and the accuracy of the MEOL is preserved. In contrast the 2.5D RCX tech file received by the customer in is based on the effective profile which may suffer from the accuracy gap .

Referring now to in an embodiment the field solver in block is separate from the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block . In other words the field solver and the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block may be or have been developed by different companies. In such a case an application programming interface API is developed to permit communication between the field solver and the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block . In an embodiment the company that developed the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block may enhance the tool in block to export the MEOL pattern in block through one API and import the MEOL pattern into the tool using another API as shown in .

Referring now to in an embodiment the field solver is integrated into or a part of the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block . In such an embodiment the company that developed the 2.5 RCX tech file characterization tool in block is able to offer the field solver as part of a complete package for handling the MEOL patterns and capacitance tables.

Referring collectively to the difference between using the conventional approaches of and the embodiment approach of is comparatively illustrated. In the real or accurate profile is used to generate the technology computer aided design TCAD and the 3D design . In contrast the effective profile generated through effective profile fitting is used to generate the 2.5D design which undesirably introduces the accuracy gap. Because for example a FinFET is more complex than a planar device and three dimensional 3D parasitic effects are stronger the effective profile fitting approach may suffer from a significant fitting error. For example the effective profile fitting approach may introduce a fitting error of about five percent 5 in planar devices which may be still acceptable. However due to stronger three dimensional 3D parasitic effects of FinFET process the fitting error may be as high as 10 percent 10 or larger which will be an un acceptable accuracy lose

In contrast and as shown in a common profile e.g. a real 3D profile is used to generate the TCAD profile the 3D design and the 2.5D design using the embodiment approach of . As such the effective profile and the accuracy gap of conventional approaches are eliminated. In other words the same device profile can be used by a 3D tool and a 2.5D tool which removes the effective profile fitting error. Moreover there is no need to enable the RCX tool for realistic device structure handling which reduces sensitive process information leakage risk and the need for RCX tool enhancement during any MEOL profile change.

The bus may be one or more of any type of several bus architectures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus video bus or the like. The CPU may comprise any type of electronic data processor. The memory may comprise any type of system memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM read only memory ROM a combination thereof or the like. In an embodiment the memory may include ROM for use at boot up and DRAM for program and data storage for use while executing programs.

The mass storage device may comprise any type of storage device configured to store data programs and other information and to make the data programs and other information accessible via the bus . The mass storage device may comprise for example one or more of a solid state drive hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive or the like.

The video adapter and the I O interface provide interfaces to couple external input and output devices to the processing unit. As illustrated examples of input and output devices include the display coupled to the video adapter and the mouse keyboard printer coupled to the I O interface . Other devices may be coupled to the processing system and additional or fewer interface cards may be utilized. For example a serial interface such as Universal Serial Bus USB not shown may be used to provide an interface for a printer.

The processing system also includes one or more network interfaces which may comprise wired links such as an Ethernet cable or the like and or wireless links to access nodes or different networks. The network interface allows the processing system to communicate with remote systems or units via the networks. For example the network interface may provide wireless communication via one or more transmitters transmit antennas and one or more receivers receive antennas. In an embodiment the processing system a.k.a. processing unit is coupled to a local area network or a wide area network for data processing and communications with remote devices such as other processing units the Internet remote storage facilities or the like.

Referring now to an embodiment method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile is illustrated. In block a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile is imported into a characterization tool. In block a MEOL pattern is generated based on the simulated MEOL profile. In block the MEOL pattern and a real profile are imported into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table. In block capacitance data in the characterization tool is updated based on the MEOL capacitance table generated. In block a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file is generated using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated.

Referring now to an embodiment method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile is illustrated. In block a new process feature is provided to a third party to support enhancement of a characterization tool. In block an enhanced characterization tool is received from the third party. The enhanced characterization tool is updated based on the new process feature. In block a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile is imported into the enhanced characterization tool. In block a MEOL pattern is generated based on the simulated MEOL profile. In block the MEOL pattern and a real profile are imported into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table. In block capacitance data in the characterization tool is updated based on the MEOL capacitance table generated. In block a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file is generated using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated.

Referring now to an embodiment method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile is illustrated. In block a new process feature is provided to a third party to support enhancement of a characterization tool. In block an enhanced characterization tool is received from the third party. The enhanced characterization tool is updated based on the new process feature. In block a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile is imported into the enhanced characterization tool. In block a MEOL pattern is generated based on the simulated MEOL profile. In block the MEOL pattern and a real profile are imported into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table. In block capacitance data in the characterization tool is updated based on the MEOL capacitance table generated. In block a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file is generated using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated. In block the resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction tech file is delivered to a customer for importation into a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction tool.

An embodiment method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile includes importing using a processor a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile into a characterization tool generating using the processor a MEOL pattern based on the simulated MEOL profile import using the processor the MEOL pattern and a real profile into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table updating using the processor capacitance data in the characterization tool based on the MEOL capacitance table generated and generating using the processor a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated.

An embodiment method of method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile includes providing new capacitance patterns corresponding to a new process feature to a third party to support enhancement of a characterization tool receiving an enhanced characterization tool from the third party the enhanced characterization tool updated based on the new process feature importing using a processor a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile into the enhanced characterization tool generating using the processor a MEOL pattern based on the simulated MEOL profile import using the processor the MEOL pattern and a real profile into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table updating using the processor capacitance data in the characterization tool based on the MEOL capacitance table generated and generating using the processor a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated.

An embodiment method of method of streamlining parasitic modeling using a common device profile includes providing a fake MEOL profile corresponding to a new process feature to a third party to support enhancement of a characterization tool receiving an enhanced characterization tool from the third party the enhanced characterization tool updated based on the fake MOEL profile importing using a processor a simulated middle end of line MEOL profile into the enhanced characterization tool generating using the processor a MEOL pattern based on the simulated MEOL profile import using the processor the MEOL pattern and a real profile into a field solver to generate a MEOL capacitance table updating using the processor capacitance data in the characterization tool based on the MEOL capacitance table generated generating using the processor a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file using the characterization tool with the capacitance data as updated and delivering the resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction technology file to a customer for importation into a resistance and capacitance parasitic extraction tool.

While the disclosure provides illustrative embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

