---

title: 3D device modeling for FinFET devices
abstract: Among other things, techniques and systems for 3D modeling of a FinFET device and for detecting a variation for a design layout based upon a 3D FinFET model are provided. For example, a fin height of a FinFET device is determined based upon imagery of the FinFET device. The fin height and a 2D FinFET model for the FinFET device are used to create a 3D FinFET model. The 3D FinFET model takes into account the fin height, which is evaluated to identify fin height variations amongst FinFET devices within the design layout. For example, a fin height variation is determined based upon a proximity pattern density, a fin pitch, a gate length, or other parameters/measurements. A voltage threshold variation is determined based upon the fin height variation. This allows the design layout to be modified to decrease the variation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582633&OS=09582633&RS=09582633
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 09582633
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20130719
---
A design layout generally models a layout comprising one or more devices such as one or more transistors. Generally a transistor comprises a source region a drain region a channel region between the source region and the drain region and a gate region above the channel regions. The gate region governs current flow within the channel region based upon a voltage or bias applied to the gate region. Generally when a bias is applied to the gate region such that current flows in the channel region between the source region and the drain region the transistor is regarded as being on and when little to no current is flowing in the channel region between the source region and the drain region the transistor is regarded as being off.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In an example operation of a 2D planar transistor is generally controlled by a 2D gate area corresponding to a gate width and a gate length of a gate region. In another example a 3D transistor such as a FinFET transistor comprises a gate region that wraps around one or more surfaces of the channel region and thus operation of the FinFET transistor is generally controlled by a 3D gate area corresponding to a gate width a gate length and a gate height of a gate region. Because electronic device design tools such as a spice tool focus on 2D layouts such electronic device design tools do not account for a gate height of a 3D transistor during design and simulation. Accordingly as provided herein 3D modeling is contemplated that takes into consideration gate height as well as gate width and gate length.

A method of 3D modeling of a FinFET device is illustrated in . A design layout of an integrated circuit comprises one or more devices such as one or more FinFET devices. The design layout is designed simulated and analyzed such as to determine electrical properties of devices or to determine that the design layout satisfies various design constraints such as spacing constraints or sizing constraints. During fabrication of the integrated circuit imagery of the one or more devices is obtained. For example high resolution imagery of a FinFET device is obtained in line by a scanning electron microscope or a transmission electron microscope. The imagery is evaluated to determine various characteristics of the FinFET device such as a fin height. Accordingly the fin height for the FinFET device represented within the design layout is determined based upon the imagery of the FinFET device at . In an example a 3D fin geometry model of the FinFET device is generated based upon the imagery. A fin height is determined from the 3D fin geometry model. In an example a first view a second view or other views of the FinFET device is generated from the imagery. For example the first view depicts the FinFET device from a first viewing angle such as a top down view. The second view depicts the FinFET device from a second viewing angle such as an oblique view. The first view the second view or other views are correlated together to determine the fin height. For example defined monitoring patterns such as off device scribe lines within device patterns or other reference features are used to correlate the views. It is appreciated that one or more fin heights such as a first fin height of a first vertical surface of a fin and a second fin height of a second vertical surface of the fin is identified and that merely a fin height is described for simplicity.

At a 2D FinFET model for the FinFET device is created. For example a 2D spice model comprising the 2D FinFET model is created from the design layout. The 2D FinFET model corresponds to a fin width and a fin length of the FinFET device. For example a layout verse schematic LVS technique or a layout parameter extraction LPE technique is performed to create a transistor level 2D spice model for the design layout where the transistor level 2D spice model comprises the 2D FinFET model. At a 3D FinFET model is created based upon the 2D FinFET model and the fin height determined at . For example a 3D spice model comprising the 3D FinFET model is created from the design layout. In an example the fin height is back annotated into the 2D FinFET model or is used to replace a nominal fin height value with the fin height determined in line from the imagery of the FinFET device. In this way the 3D FinFET model takes into account the in line fin height that is used to determine variations in fin height voltage thresholds or other variations between devices or parameters within the design layout. It is appreciated that one or more 3D FinFET models are created for detection of variations between FinFET devices of the design layout and that merely a 3D FinFET model is described for simplicity.

In an example the 3D FinFET model alone or in combination with other 3D FinFET models of the design layout are evaluated to determine a proximity pattern density. The proximity pattern density corresponds to a pattern density e.g. an amount of material devices portions of devices etc. within a proximity e.g. a 10 by 10 micron area of the design layout. For example a layout parameter extraction LPE technique is performed upon the 3D spice model comprising the 3D FinFET model or other 3D FinFET models for other FinFET devices within the design layout to determine the proximity pattern density because the proximity pattern density corresponds to one or more FinFET devices. A fin height variation for the FinFET device e.g. between a first vertical surface of a fin and a second vertical surface of the fin or between the FinFET device and other FinFET devices within the design layout is determined based upon the proximity pattern density a fin pitch gate length or other parameters. For example the fin height variation indicates a variation or mismatch in fin heights of FinFET devices within the design layout or a variation or mismatch in fin heights of fins of a particular FinFET device. A voltage threshold variation or a model mismatch is determined based upon the fin height variation. For example a fin height corresponds to a voltage threshold e.g. a taller fin results in an improved voltage threshold and thus a variation in fin heights between FinFET devices results in different voltage thresholds for the FinFET devices. In another example RC extraction is performed upon the 3D FinFET model to create a 3DRC FinFET model. For example the RC extraction is performed upon the 3D spice model to create a 3DRC spice model. The voltage threshold variation is determined based upon the 3DRC FinFET model. It is appreciated that the 3D FinFET model allows various types of variations such as a fin height variation or a voltage threshold variation to be identified based upon proximity pattern density gate width gate length spacing fin height or other parameters measurements for the design layout. In an example a design parameter such as a size parameter or a spacing parameter for the design layout is modified based upon the variation. For example a value for the design parameter is determined based upon the value decreasing the variation. In another example a value is selected for a design parameter based upon the value increasing the fin height for improved electrical characteristics for the FinFET device such as a speed characteristic.

The variation detection component is configured to evaluate the 3D FinFET model to determine a proximity pattern density. For example the variation detection component evaluates the 3D spice model to determine the proximity pattern density. The variation detection component is configured to determine a variation for the design layout based upon the proximity pattern density a gate width a gate length spacing the fin height or other parameters measurements for the design layout. The variation corresponds to a fin height variation in fin heights amongst FinFET devices within the design layout a fin height variation in fin heights among a particular FinFET device within the design layout a variation in voltage thresholds derived from the fin height variation a mismatch in electric indexes etc.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for 3D modeling of a FinFET device is provided. The method comprises determining a fin height for a FinFET device represented within a design layout based upon imagery of the FinFET device. A 2D FinFET model for the FinFET device is created. The 2D FinFET model corresponds to a fin width and a fin length. A 3D FinFET model is created for the FinFET device based upon the 2D FinFET model and the fin height.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for detecting a variation in a design layout based upon a 3D FinFET model is provided. The system comprises a modeling component configured to determine a fin height for a FinFET device represented within the design layout based upon imagery of the FinFET device. The modeling component is configured to create a 3D FinFET model for the FinFET device based upon the fin height and a 2D FinFET model for the FinFET device. The system comprise a variation detection component configured to evaluate the 3D FinFET model to determine a proximity pattern density. The variation detection component is configured to determine a variation for the design layout based upon the proximity pattern density.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a computer readable medium comprising instructions for performing a method for detecting a variation for a design layout based upon a 3D FinFET model is provided. The method comprises determining a fin height of a FinFET device represented in a design layout based upon imagery of the FinFET device. A 3D FinFET model for the FinFET device is created based upon the fin height and a 2D FinFET model for the FinFET device. The 3D FinFET model is evaluated to determine a variation for the design layout.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may include a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to comprise a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Generally embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

Device includes communication connection s in some embodiments that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s includes but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s includes a wired connection or a wireless connection in some embodiments. Communication connection s transmits and or receives communication media in some embodiments.

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

Components of computing device are connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13104 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device are interconnected by a network. For example memory is comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions are distributed across a network in some embodiments. For example a computing device accessible via a network stores computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device accesses computing device and downloads a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device downloads pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions are executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated given the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

It will be appreciated that layers features elements etc. depicted herein are illustrated with particular dimensions relative to one another such as structural dimensions and or orientations for example for purposes of simplicity and ease of understanding and that actual dimensions of the same differ substantially from that illustrated herein in some embodiments. Additionally a variety of techniques exist for forming the layers features elements etc. mentioned herein such as etching techniques implanting techniques doping techniques spin on techniques sputtering techniques such as magnetron or ion beam sputtering growth techniques such as thermal growth or deposition techniques such as chemical vapor deposition CVD physical vapor deposition PVD plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD or atomic layer deposition ALD for example.

Further unless specified otherwise first second or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first channel and a second channel generally correspond to channel A and channel B or two different or two identical channels or the same channel.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

