---

title: Guided workflows for establishing a web presence
abstract: Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a customer user interface with a guided workflow layer based on a knowledge base about the customer, wherein the customer interface allows a customer to manage a customer's web presence based on operation of a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is (e.g. type of business), wherein the user interface presents a guided workflow of tasks associated with a recommended area of improvement for the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277022&OS=09277022&RS=09277022
owner: Endurance International Group, Inc.
number: 09277022
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130111
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 585 604 filed Jan. 11 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 007 094 filed Jan. 14 2011 that claims the benefit of the following provisional applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. Ser. No. 61 295 506 filed Jan. 15 2010 U.S. Ser. No. 61 295 528 filed Jan. 15 2010 U.S. Ser. No. 61 303 281 filed Feb. 10 2010 U.S. Ser. No. 61 345 568 filed May 17 2010 and U.S. Ser. No. 61 376 743 filed Aug. 25 2010.

Delivery of web site and web hosting services is fragmented and generally requires a user to separately identify and take several distinct steps mostly by trial and error to establish a new web presence generally resulting in at least some portion of the web presence being incomplete. In addition techniques for improving a web presence are generally limited to measuring and improving visibility with Internet search engines.

Described herein are methods and systems embodied as a suite of tools designed to engage web hosting customers by helping them in various ways including quickly understanding what the customer needs to do to establish a basic web presence prioritizing tasks and the ordering of tasks for a successful web presence evaluating and selecting among available tools features and the like performing web presence tasks quickly with minimal time knowledge and effort progressing confidently toward major web presence milestones getting more value and utility out of a client web hosting arrangement and the like.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a customer user interface with a guided workflow layer based on a knowledge base about the customer wherein the customer interface allows a customer to manage a customer s web presence based on operation of a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. type of business wherein the user interface presents a guided workflow of tasks associated with a recommended area of improvement for the customer.

In the methods and systems the web presence includes at least one of electronic communication e.g. email website domain and website related tasks. In the methods and systems accessing information includes at least one of accessing information provided by the customer through the user interface and accessing information stored in a database. In the methods and systems the database is a database of the host of the logic engine or an external database.

In the methods and systems the guided workflow includes a decision tree that allows a customer to choose one or more paths. A path is at least one of a most traveled path by customers of this type a most successful path traveled by customers of this type an easiest next path a path that results in a web presence that is desired by the customer a path that fits a desire based prioritization scheme and the like.

In the methods and systems the guided workflow is based on conditional logic that permits a plurality of different paths. In the methods and systems the guided workflow is based at least in part on the status of a ticketing process associated with a customer.

In the methods and systems the host is at least one of a customer a reseller an affiliate a customer of a customer a domain registrar a web services provider a cloud services provider a network services provider an online services provider and an internet service provider and the like. In the methods and systems the guided workflow is associated with the market of the customer.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer b one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence c an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform and d a host api module that takes input from the abstraction layer and initiates actions on the platforms to enable the web presence. In the methods and systems of claim a platform may be a platform of the host or a platform of a third party. In the methods and systems a platform may be a social media platform or some other type of web enabled platform.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence and b a host api module that takes input from the host system and initiates actions on the platforms to enable the web presence.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence and b an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer b one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence c an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform the user interface of the abstraction layer permitting a host to enter business rules for establishing workflows associated with the customer s web presence and d a host api module that takes input from the abstraction layer and initiates actions on the platforms to enable the web presence. In the methods and systems the information accessed by the logic engine further comprises market data other customer data systems information customer s competitor data a search results.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include an instant profile wizard for creation of online presence of a customer based on basic profile information the wizard embodying a workflow generated and governed by a logic engine wherein the logic engine accesses information about what a business has the type of the business and what the business wishes to have in a basic website and the wizard allows the customer to rapidly create a customized web presence using the basic profile information. In the methods and systems the information accessed by the logic engine further comprises market data other customer data systems information customer s competitor data a search results. In the methods and systems the wizard is presented to the purchaser following the purchase of at least one of a web domain and a hosting services package.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include storing a data structure for instant creation of a web presence including information about status of what web presence related items a business has completed information about the type of business and information about what the business desires for its web presence

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include collecting information about status of what web presence related items a customer has completed and information about the type of customer comparing the completed items to a set of items completed by similar customers and recommending a next action for the customer to modify its web presence. In the methods and systems the similar customers were guided to complete the items. Alternatively the similar customers completed the items without guidance. In the methods and systems the recommended next action is derived from a candidate list of recommended next actions based on a customer web presence desire.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include an algorithm for selection of a recommended next action for improving the web presence of a customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence and outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps not yet completed by the customer.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include an algorithm for selection of a recommended path for improving the web presence of a customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence and outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps not yet completed by the customer. In the methods and systems a recommended path may include conditional logic that is dependent on client related data web hosting data third party data and the like. In the methods and systems a recommended path may be based on customer decisions. Alternatively a recommended path may include requiring a customer to make decisions such as to configure an element of web presence. Yet alternatively following a recommended path may include accessing or using a decision tree. In the methods and systems the recommended path is derived from a candidate list of recommended paths based on a customer web presence desire.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include providing at least one portable workflow for guiding a customer through a path of tasks associated with establishing an element of a web presence wherein upon a customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include providing a workflow for establishing a customer s web presence porting the workflow and the logic engine link to a customer s customer and enabling the customer s customer to use and extend the workflow to establish a web presence.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include providing at least one portable user interface the user interface allowing a first customer to create workflows for guiding a second customer e.g. a third party through a path of tasks associated with establishing an element of a web presence wherein upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer wherein the workflow is portable from a first customer to a second customer and wherein upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence and b a host api module that takes input from the host system and initiates actions on the platforms to enable the web presence and wherein the host API initiates actions specified for a workflow that is portable from a first customer to a second customer such that upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established based on initiation of actions through the host API.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence and b an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform wherein the web presence enabling elements are presented in workflow that is portable from a first customer to a second customer who has access to the abstraction layer.

Methods and systems related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence include a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence wherein the command center is associated with a a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer b one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence c an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform the user interface of the abstraction layer permitting a host to enter business rules for establishing workflows associated with the customer s web presence and d a host api module that takes input from the abstraction layer and initiates actions on the platforms to enable the web presence wherein at least one workflow is portable from a first customer to a second customer and wherein upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include allowing a host to enhance a web presence of a customer. The system may include several steps such as a a customer database being a knowledge base that at least includes customer type and customer history information b a logic engine adapted to access customer type and customer history information from the customer database receive information regarding a current web presence of the customer and select a guided workflow layer based upon the information accessed and received and c a user interface adapted to run the guided workflow layer provide output based upon the guided workflow layer receive customer input in response to the output provided and apply customer input to the guided work flow layer to result in execution of at least one recommended task to result in an enhanced web presence. In this system the step to select a guided workflow includes referencing a measure of at least one of the group consisting of electronic communication email website domain and website related tasks. In this system the information accessed from the customer database includes at least one of the group consisting of a information received through the user interface and b information pre stored in the customer database. In this system the customer database is coupled to the logic engine. In this system the customer database is an external database. In this system the guided workflow layer employs a decision tree that directs a customer to choose one or more paths. In this system the path to which the customer is directed is at least one of a a most frequently used path for a given customer type b a path that has had the best results in enhancing web presence for a given customer type and c a path that fits a predefined prioritization scheme. In this system the guided workflow layer is based upon conditional logic that permits a choice of a plurality of different paths. In this system the guided workflow layer is based at least in part on a status of a ticketing process associated with the customer. In this system said host is at least one of a customer a reseller an affiliate a customer of a customer a domain registrar a web services provider a cloud services provider a network services provider an online services provider and an internet service provider. In this system the guided workflow layer facilitates the user interface providing questions related to a market associated with the customer type. This system may further include a a central command center that allows a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence b at least one web presence enabling platform that enables web presence elements and c an API module that takes input from the host and initiates actions on the web presence enabling platforms to enable the web presence.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include a system adapted to improve a web presence of a customer. The system may include several steps such as a a central command center adapted to run a guided work flow and present options from the guided work flow to said customer and receive customer input from a user interface controlled at least in part by the central command center b at least one web presence enabling platform adapted to enable elements of web presence c at least one API module adapted to receive input from the central command center and initiate actions on the web presence enabling platforms to perform tasks enabling enhanced web presence and d an abstraction layer that provides a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform that facilitates communications between the API and the web presence enabling platforms. In this system the central command center may further include a user interface adapted to present various options from the guided work flow to a customer and receive customer input provided to the guided work flow to facilitate managing the customer s web presence. In this system at least one of the web presence enabling platforms is connected to the host API module. In this system at least one of the web presence enabling platforms is connected to a platform of a third party. In this system at least one of the web presence enabling platforms is a social media platform. In this system at least one of the web presence enabling platforms is a web enabled platform. In this system the command center is associated with a logic engine that accesses information about customer history and customer type and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer. This system related to improving a web presence of a customer wherein the central command center is adapted to allow a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence may further include a at least one web presence enabling platform for enabling web presence elements and b an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling platforms in a unified user interface independent of the native language of each platform.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include a system related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence. The system may include several steps such as a a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence b a logic engine coupled to the central command center adapted to access information regarding customer history and customer type and provide a recommended guided workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer c one or more web presence enabling platforms coupled to the central command center for enabling elements of web presence d an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a web presence enabling platform the abstraction layer further comprising a user interface of the abstraction layer permitting a host to enter business rules for establishing the guided workflows associated with the customer s web presence and e a host API module that receives input from the abstraction layer and initiates actions on the web presence platforms to enable the web presence. In this system the information accessed by the logic engine may further include at least one of market data other customer data systems information customer s competitor data and search results.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include a system related to guided workflows for establishing a web presence. The system may include several steps such as a a logic engine adapted to access information about what a business has the type of the business and what the business wishes to have in a basic website and generates a business specific web presence enablement workflow and b a profile based wizard adapted to receive basic customer profile information receive the workflow generated by the logic engine and execute the business specific web presence enablement workflow to create a current online web presence of a customer based upon the basic customer profile information to rapidly create a customized web presence. In this system the information accessed by the logic engine may further include at least one of market data other customer data systems information of the business competitor data of the business and search results related to the business. In this system the profile based wizard is presented following a purchase of at least one of a web domain and a hosting services package.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include preparing for instant creation of a web presence. The method may include several steps such as a electronically collecting information with a web server about status of what web presence related items a business has completed information about the type of business and information about what the business desires for its web presence and b storing the information in a memory accessible by the web server for subsequent use in creation of a web presence.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include guided workflows for establishing a web presence. The method may include several steps such as a electronically collecting with a server information about status of what web presence related items a customer has completed and information about the type of customer b comparing with the server the completed items to a set of items completed by similar customers and c automatically recommending a next action for the customer to modify its web presence with the server. This method may further include guiding the similar customers to complete the items a customer has completed. This method may further include a receiving electronic information that represents customer web presence desires b creating a candidate list of recommended next actions based upon the customer web presence desires and c automatically deriving a recommended next action from the candidate list of recommended next actions.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include a computer implemented method for selecting a recommended next action for improving a web presence of a customer. The method may include several steps such as a receiving electronic customer type information for the customer b determining with a server the status of customer completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence c determining outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that completed standard actions not yet completed by the customer and d recommending with the server a next action for improving the web presence of the customer based upon at least one of the received customer type information the determined status of completion of the standard actions and the determined outcomes.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include a computer implemented method for selecting a recommended path for improving a web presence of a customer. The method may include several steps such as a receiving electronic customer type information for the customer b determining with a server the status of customer completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence c determining outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that completed standard actions not yet completed by the customer and d recommending with the server a path for improving the web presence of the customer based upon at least one of the received customer type information the determined status of completion of the standard actions and the determined outcomes. In this system the recommended path may include conditional logic that is dependent on at least one of client related data web hosting data and third party data. In this system the recommended path may be based on decisions of the customer. In this system the recommended path may include requiring the customer to make decisions such as to configure a web presence element. In this system following the recommended path may include accessing or using a decision tree. In this system the recommended path is derived from a candidate list of recommended paths based on a customer web presence desire.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include establishing a web presence element. The method may include several steps such as a obtaining at least one portable workflow for guiding a customer through a path of tasks associated with establishing an element of a web presence and b providing the portable workflow to a computer operated by the customer as a computer executable program causing the computer to perform tasks within the workflow causing the web presence element to be automatically established.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include establishing a web presence. The method may include several steps such as a providing a workflow running in a logic engine for establishing a customer s web presence b porting the workflow and a link to the logic engine to a customer s customer and c enabling the customer s customer to use the workflow to establish a web presence.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include establishing a web presence. The method may include several steps such as a creating at least one portable computer based user interface allowing a first customer to create an electronic web presence enabling workflow for guiding a second customer through a path of tasks associated with establishing a web presence element and b providing the portable computer based user interface to the second customer allowing the second customer to perform tasks within the workflow thereby causing a web presence element to be automatically established.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include guided workflows for establishing a web presence. The method may include several steps such as a a logic engine adapted to receive measures of web presence areas determine web presence areas in need of improvement access customer information provide a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of improvement for the customer and run the workflow wherein the workflow is portable from a first customer to a second customer and wherein upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow an element of the web presence is automatically established and b a central command center coupled to the logic engine adapted to allow a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to interact with the workflow and manage the customer s web presence. This system may further include a one or more web presence enabling platforms for enabling web presence elements b an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform that may further include a user interface of the abstraction layer permitting a host to enter business rules for establishing workflows associated with the customer s web presence and c a host API module adapted to receive input from the abstraction layer and initiate actions on the web presence enabling platforms to enable the web presence wherein at least one workflow is portable from a first customer to a second customer and wherein upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow the web presence element is automatically established.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include guided workflows for establishing a web presence. The system may include several steps such as a a central command center adapted to allow a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence b one or more web presence enabling platforms for enabling web presence elements and c a host API module adapted to receive input from the central command center and initiate actions on the web presence platforms to enable the web presence wherein the host API module initiates actions specified for a workflow that is portable from a first customer to a second customer such that upon the second customer s performing tasks within the workflow a web presence element is automatically established based on initiation of actions through the API module.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include establishing a web presence. The system may include several steps such as a a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence b one or more platforms associated with the central command center for enabling web presence elements and c an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of a platform wherein the web presence enabling elements are presented in workflow that is portable from a first customer to a second customer who has access to the abstraction layer.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include enhancing web presence of a customer. The method may include several steps such as a gathering measures of user web presence areas b determining a candidate area from the user web presence areas most in need of improvement c selecting a guided work flow relating to the candidate area d presenting the guided work flow to the customer e receiving and acting on user input to create a script for a web presence element and f executing the script to create a web presence element to improve the web presence of a customer. In this method the step of determining a candidate area may further include a comparing the gathered measures of the web presence areas to those of peers to determine at least one candidate area for improvement having a magnitude significantly lower than that of the peers and b comparing the candidate areas for improvement to industry metrics to determine the candidate area most in need of improvement.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include allowing a host to present various options to a customer to facilitate enhancing a customer s web presence. The system may include several steps such as a a logic engine adapted to receive information regarding the customer from a customer database receive information regarding a plurality of web presence areas for the customer select at least one web presence area needing improvement as a candidate area and select workflow tasks relating to the selected candidate area b a plurality of website presence enabling platforms each adapted to facilitate providing certain web presence elements when provided with proper instructions c a central command center coupled to the logic engine and the web presence enabling platforms adapted to receive the selected candidate area and the selected workflow tasks relating to the selected candidate area from the logic engine create a guided work flow to improve the web presence of the selected candidate area execute the guided work flow to provide options to the customer and receive customer input create at least one executable script based upon the customer input to the guided workflow and providing the executable script to at least one of the website presence enabling platforms as instructions causing them to provide certain web presence elements thereby enhancing a customer s web presence. In this system the logic engine selects the candidate area by using at least one of a threshold associated with an area a model of continuous or progressive improvement of a web presence comparative ranking area popularity a measure of changes already made to the area. In this system the central command center may further include a user interface adapted to interactively display the options to the customer and receive customer supplied input. This system may further include an application programming interface API coupled between the logic engine and at least one of the web presence areas customer database web presence object definitions templates the workflow task library an abstraction layer adapted to facilitate communication between the coupled elements of the system. This system may further include an abstraction layer coupled between the web presence enabling platforms and the API adapted to provide a unified user interface independent of the native language of the web presence enabling platforms and the API.

The systems and methods of establishing a web presence disclosed herein include recommending an enhancement of a web presence of a customer. The system may include several steps such as a a customer database being a knowledge base that at least includes customer type and customer history information b a logic engine adapted to access customer type and customer history information from the customer database receive information regarding a current web presence of the customer and select a guided workflow layer based upon the information accessed and received and c a user interface adapted to run the guided workflow layer provide output based upon the guided workflow layer receive customer input in response to the output provided apply customer input to the guided work flow layer to result in a recommended workflow comprising at least one task to result in an enhanced web presence and present the recommended workflow to the customer in the user interface. In this system the step to select a guided workflow layer may include selecting at least two workflow tasks from a workflow task library. In this system the step to select a guide workflow layer may include processing the accessed and received data with web presence object definitions to determine at least one web presence object for presenting to the user with the guided workflow layer. In this system the at least one web presence object is adapted by the logic engine prior to presenting to the user.

Detailed aspects of the inventive methods and systems of an engagement platform are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the methods and systems which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present methods and systems in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open transition . The term coupled or operatively coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and or mechanically.

A web presence may include a variety of areas that may be analyzed by a logic engine to determine which area s may be improved by applying a guided workflow . Determining one or more areas for improvement may be based on a variety of factors including a threshold associated with an area a model of continuous or progressive improvement of a web presence comparative ranking area popularity a measure of change already made to the area and the like. In an example of threshold based determination each web presence area may be compared to an improvement threshold to determine which area s exceed the threshold. These areas may be considered to be acceptable or at least not necessarily in need of improvement and therefore other areas that do not satisfy the threshold may be further evaluated for improvement. In an example of a model of continuous or progressive improvement areas of web presence and or their impact on a user s web presence may be evaluated periodically or over a period of time so that the user s web presence can be improved by applying a series of improvement steps. A user s web presence may be evaluated for improvement based on its position in a ranked list and the like. Successive improvement steps may include improving different web presence areas determining a web presence area for improvement based on previous improvement steps and the like. In an example of a determining a candidate are for improvement based on a measure of change already made to an area a record of improvement attempts to any area or a range of related areas may be consulted. If the record indicates that an area has been through an improvement cycle recently further attempts at improvement in the area may be deferred to allow the improved area time to have an improving impact. In an example of comparative ranking similar web presence areas from a plurality of users e.g. similar users and or the improvement attempts made to those areas may be compared to compare the improvement efforts for a current user to the plurality of users. If several users had improvements in two different web presence areas the area that resulted in the greatest improvement might be selected as a candidate area for improvement. In another example of comparative ranking areas of web presence may be grouped into related sets e.g. communication content metadata social networking and the like may be evaluated for determining the one or more for which the user needs most improvement such as relative to others in the same industry. This might be based on a ranking of the customer s web presence to its peers. A set of areas in which the user is ranked lowest among peers may signify that improvement in one of the related areas in the set could be beneficial. In an example of area popularity based determination data regarding similar customers may be analyzed to determine which web presence areas are popular to help pinpoint one or more areas to improve. Areas that are least popular may not be as likely to improve a user s web presence as areas that are more popular.

For any given area needing improvement called a web presence improvement candidate the logic engine may evaluate a variety of data sources analysis results and the like to determine at least one recommended work flow for improving the candidate . The logic engine may access data such as user data that may include information about a particular customer for whom a recommendation regarding an area of improvement may be prepared. The logic engine may also access customer data for other customers such as other customers for whom the logic engine has provided web presence improvement workflows and the like. The logic engine may access data representing any number of different customers to facilitate determining a workflow for improving a candidate web presence area . Customer data may include customer data for a variety of web hosting customers including former web hosting customers. The logic engine may be configured to access information about the customer including customer activities such as for example but not limited to customer business customer profile information and the like to determine a recommended area of improvement for the customer s web presence.

The logic engine may further access a customer s current web presence and information about the customer such as who the customer is market information about the customer existing web presence areas and the like. A customer s web presence may be supplemented with information about the customer that is accessible through Internet search engines and the like. Other sources may include industry directories corporate registrations government records and the like. The logic engine may combine this customer web presence related information with the customer information when determining a recommended workflow for improving a candidate web presence area .

A guided workflow may be derived from a sequence of workflow tasks A B C etc . The tasks and relationships among the tasks such as which tasks must precede other tasks and which tasks are candidates for executing subsequent to execution of a given task may be stored in a workflow task library that may be accessible to the logic engine . The logic engine may access the library to select a task based on the improvement candidate area the customer data the current web presence and other information. The logic engine may use the task relationship information to identify candidate tasks and or conditional tasks to be included in the guided workflow to be presented on the user interface . The library may have a variety of tasks that help on a particular area of web presence. Those tasks may be undertaken in more than one possible sequence such that at any given point a next task may be selected by the logic engine that contributes to an improved web presence. The customer might complete all tasks presented in a guide workflow or might just do one of the tasks but in either case the result of executing the guided workflow is that the web presence should be improved. The logic engine may identify a next task based on a variety of factors including being based on where the customer is in the web presence improvement process. In an example if the user has indicated a budget for improving web presence and the user has taken web presence improvement tasks in one or more guided workflows that substantially consume the entire available budget the logic engine may present a low or no cost web presence improvement task. Alternatively the logic engine may provide an indication of the use of the budget and give the user the opportunity to close out the web presence improvement process increase the budget or the like.

In an alternate embodiment a guided workflow may be based on an amount of time that the user has available for improving web presence during a particular web presence improvement session. In an example the customer may be asked about how much time is available so that tasks that can improve the user s web presence in a given amount of time are recommended. Further in the example a user might have five minutes available which might give enough time to add the customer s contact information to a page. If the user indicates that an hour might available the logic engine may present web presence improvement tasks that enable setting up links among pages creating search engine metadata connecting to a social networking site and the like.

A guided workflow may also be based on criteria and templates of web presence objects elements that may be stored in a web presence objects dataset . Web presence objects dataset may also include information about web presence areas improvement thresholds and the like that may be used by the logic engine to select web presence improvement area candidates .

The logic engine may combine and analyze input from the various sources described herein to generate content and or guidance for display and or interactive presentation of a guided workflow on user interface . In an example the logic engine may determine a plurality of candidate areas of web presence improvement . The candidates may be further filtered by reviewing customer data e.g. web hosting service level and combining with an analysis of a user s current web presence to determine at least one candidate area for improvement. The selected area for improvement can be presented to the user through the user interface along with at least one guided workflow for improving the candidate web presence area . The guided workflow may when executed result in an improvement in the candidate area such that the area is no longer below the improvement threshold .

An exemplary flow of steps that are processed by the logic engine is shown in . In the example an area of improvement is recommended a guided workflow is selected the guided workflow is presented to the user and user input is integrated with the guided workflow to create a script for adding improving the recommended area of improvement the script is executed and the user is notified of the completion of the web presence improvement. The particular example of involves a user s web presence being evaluated by logic engine which starts with the logic engine gathering the status of the user s web presence areas . The status of a customer s web presence in areas such as email account address on home page URL auto renew search engine data site security social network and the like is gathered to facilitate recommending an area of improvement. In the particular example of email account address on home page and social network all appear as potential candidates for improvement based on the status that each has not yet been completed by this client.

The logic engine exemplary flow of continues with the logic engine comparing the user s web presence status with peers e.g. similar entities industry peers web hosting customers who have a similar web presence etc to determine which of the three candidate areas of improvement might yield the greatest value. In this example the logic engine determines that the difference in counts of peers with email and with an address on the home page versus those without is greater than difference in counts of peers with a social network presence and those without. Therefore the email account web presence area and the address on home page web presence area persist as candidate improvement areas.

The logic engine exemplary flow of continues further with the logic engine comparing the candidate improvement areas with industry metrics regarding the areas. Exemplary industry metrics include page rank market capitalization on line sales growth rate and the like. The logic engine may determine the potential benefits of including and address on the homepage for these metrics versus having no address on a homepage. Likewise the logic engine may determine the differences in these metrics for users who have an e mail account versus those users do not have an e mail account. The logic engine may further determine whether making improvement in the e mail account web presence area or the address on home page web presence area will be the most likely to provide the greatest increase in metrics for the user. In the particular example of the e mail account web presence area is determined to show the greatest potential for increased metrics. The logic engine may therefore recommend adding an e mail account for the user.

Logic engine may then recommend adding an e mail account for the user. Subsequently the logic engine may identify a guided workflow that is suitable for adding an e mail account to a user s web presence. Determining the proper guided workflow may include accessing data such as user data web presence templates workflow library and the like as described in the embodiment of . The logic engine may present the guided workflow to a user in a user interface. The user may input customization information such as a username password and the like that the guided workflow made requests through the user interface. Logic engine may execute guided workflow based the user inputs to generate a script that is suitable for adding the e mail account.

The script for adding e mail account may be executed A50 by the logic engine or another suitable Web server or computer. The result may include the user receiving a welcoming e mail message in the newly added e mail account. The script may also include configuring a user s web browser with a favorite for accessing the user s email. Likewise the script may include configuring a user s email program such as OUTLOOK or APPLE MAIL to properly access the newly established user s email account.

We note that the term web presence described herein may be defined as a persona an identity and or a communication medium of the customer as well as the underlying content such as pages URLs email addresses and the like that embody or create the identity or persona. The web presence described herein may include at least one of the electronic communications medium such as email video conferencing electronic chatting instant messaging and the like website domains such as domain names URLs and similar indication of location and identity or persona presence on social networking sites communication streams such as Facebook or Twitter and other web related elements. The term web described herein may define the fixed Internet wireless Internet and mobile web such as enabled by Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP Wireless Application Protocol WAP Wi Fi Wi Max and the like.

The customer described herein may include for example but not limited to at least one of a customer a reseller an affiliate a customer of a customer a domain registrar a web services provider a cloud services provider a network services provider an online services provider an Internet service provider an online advertiser a campaign manager and the like. In an aspect the logic engine may be configured to interact with the databases such as and to determine the guided workflow of tasks such as the workflow task associated with the recommended area of improvement for the customer.

The guided workflow may include a decision tree that may allow the customer to choose one or more paths. Alternatively the paths available to a user may be limited based on context and other input data variables as described herein. The paths described herein may include for example but not limited to a most traveled path by a customer type a most successful path traveled by other customers an easiest next path path based on customer activities and the like. Path conditionality and determination may further be based at least in part on the status of a customer issue ticketing process that is associated with the customer. The ticketing process may resolve the customer issues through the guided workflow of tasks. The process may include a discrete element that may be kicked off and tracked around the guided workflow of tasks. The guided workflow may be associated with the market of the customer.

Methods and systems including a central command center for presenting various options to a customer to facilitate managing the customer s web presence through the user interface are depicted in . The central command center may allow the host to present options to the customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence. The central command center may be operationally coupled or associated with the logic engine to access and process information about the customer activities and provide a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of web presence improvement. The command center may communicate with the databases such as and as described in association with in association with the logic engine to provide a recommended guided workflow of tasks associated with an area of web presence improvement for the customer.

In particular the embodiment of depicts a central command center for allowing a host to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customers web presence wherein the command center is associated with one or more of A a logic engine that accesses information about what a customer has done and who the customer is e.g. customer s type of business and provides a recommended workflow of tasks associated with an area of web presence improvement for the customer B one or more platforms for enabling elements of web presence C an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of a native language of a platform and D a host API module that takes input from the abstraction layer and initiates actions on the platform to enable the web presence. The abstraction layer may further include a user interface that may permit a host to enter business rules for establishing and or executing workflows associated with the customer s web presence.

The central command center may be configured to be coupled to or associated with one or more web presence enabling platforms through an abstraction layer and a host application programming interface API . In an aspect each web presence enabling platform described herein may be a platform of a web hosting provider a platform of a third party a social media platform an online campaign platform or the like. Each web enabling platform may facilitate providing certain web presence elements . Through interactions between the central command center and the web presence enabling platform e.g. via an abstraction layer web presence element s associated with the enabling platform may be enabled in a user s web presence .

The web enabling platforms may communicate with the command center via the abstraction layer that may facilitate managing web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface that is independent of the native language of the platforms . The abstraction layer may facilitate data reformatting data translation language and other translation standardization of web presence element attributes or definitions normalization of data and web presence related elements and the like.

Communication among the web presence enabling platforms and the central command center may be further enabled by an application programming interface API . The API may facilitate automation and or computer to computer communication. The API may receive abstracted web presence enabling platform communications from the abstraction layer and may interface the abstraction layer with the central command center and or the logic engine . In a similar way the API may facilitate initiating actions on the platform for enabling web elements such as by sending information data queries commands and the like from the logic engine and or the central command center to the web presence enabling platforms . The API may optionally communicate with the web presence enabling platforms via the abstraction layer.

The central command center may be configured to be coupled to or associated with an abstraction layer that allows the host to manage web presence enabling elements in a unified user interface independent of the native language of the platform . The abstraction layer may implement or include the operations or functions performed by the central command center . The abstraction layer may include or implement a user interface UI that may allow the host to manage establishing and or maintaining business rules for establishing workflows to manage the web presence enabling elements for the customer.

In a general embodiment the central command center may allow a host not shown to present options to a customer to allow the customer to manage the customer s web presence. The central command center may be associated with one or more web element enabling platforms to facilitate enabling particular elements of web presence for the customer. The central command center may be associated with the host API module that may take input from the host system and initiate actions on the platforms for enabling web elements. The host API module described herein may allow the central command center to perform the operations instructed by the host system. Further the host API module may communicate with the logic engine to allow interaction with platform or any other host system to determine the workflow of tasks for the customer. The host API module may act as a middleware or a medium for interaction among the central command center host system the platform and the like. The host API module may optionally facilitate the logic engine interacting with and or gaining access to customer data web presence object definitions templates workflow task library web presence areas and the like.

The guided workflow that may be generated through use of the central command center may also be based on information about user activities. The information described herein may include market activity data other customer activity data systems activity information customer s competitor activity data activity search results and the like.

The central command center in association with the abstraction layer may allow the host to manage apply business rules to the creation of workflows. The abstraction layer user interface of the abstraction layer may permit the host to identify apply and manage the business rules. The abstraction layer user interface may communicate with a web presence business rules database to facilitate establishing business rules for workflows associated with the customer s web presence.

Methods and systems to provide an instant profile wizard for creating an online presence of the customer are depicted in . The methods and systems may include a profile based wizard that may be configured to create a customized web presence of the customer. The profile based wizard described herein may be an instant and customized profile wizard and may be presented by the system based on the customer information. The profile based wizard may be configured to create the online presence of the customer. The profile based wizard may be operationally coupled to the logic engine to allow the customer to create a customized web presence . The profile based wizard in communication with the logic engine may be configured to use the basic profile information of the customer to create online presence of the customer. Further the profile based wizard may include one or more workflow tasks described elsewhere herein arranged into a web presence workflow to allow the customer to create the customized web presence .

The profile based wizard may communicate with the logic engine to generate the workflow task for the customer. The logic engine may also be configured to access the information about the customer to generate workflows for the profile based wizard thereby using customer related information to generate input for the profile based wizard. In the example of a business info database may be configured to include information about the customer that the logic engine may use as described herein. The business info data base may include customer business information customer profile information market data other customer data systems information customer s competitor data search results and the like.

In addition to the business info database the logic engine may be configured to access the information from the web presence objects database and or the workflow task library database as described elsewhere herein to generate the workflows and or to embed them in the profile based wizard to facilitate allowing the customer to create the online presence .

In another example a new web hosting client may receive a customized profile based wizard in response to purchasing at least one of service from such as the web domain a hosting service package and the like. The information gathered during the purchase activity may be sufficient to enable the logic engine to generate a workflow for the customized profile based wizard to enable generating the customized web presence .

Methods and systems for providing web presence improvement recommendations to a customer are depicted in . Information about a customer such as a type of customer status of web presence items of a customer desires for web presence and the like may be used to provide web presence improvement recommendations to the customer. In particular the method of depicts a method of i collecting information about the status of what web presence related items a customer has completed and information about the type of customer ii comparing the completed items to a set of items completed by similar customers iii and recommending a next action for the customer to modify its web presence. Customer related data stored in a dataset described elsewhere herein facilitates determining the status of web presence related items. The status of these web presence related items for other customers could also be determined e.g. from each customer specific reference in the dataset . A subset of all customers may be selected for comparison with the specific customer s web presence status. This subset may be similar customers wherein the similarity is based at least in part on the type of customer and the like. Once a subset of similar customers is identified the status of each customer s web presence items may be evaluated to determine at least one web presence element for recommending to the customer to enable. In the example of the web presence items that are not completed by the customer but are completed by the similar customers are outlined to further help identify candidate web presence items to recommend.

The data structure may be configured to collect and store the information about the type of business information about status of web presence and information about the customer desires for web presence . The data structure may be configured to include the web presence items such as email website Uniform Resource Locator URL host metadata site security social network and the like.

Information about the status of the web presence related items completed by other customers may be analyzed to identify candidate web presence items for recommending to the customer . For example the web presence items that have been completed by customers A F are marked with an x below each customer A F. Customers with a type of customer reference that is similar to the customer for whom the recommendation is being generated e.g. A C D may be separated out from the customers that are not similar e.g. B E F . In this web presence item status of only similar customers may be further analyzed. The further analysis may include among other things determining which of the web presence items the greatest number of similar customers has completed. In the example of the website web presence item appears to be completed by the greatest number of similar customers so this web presence item may be recommended to the customer . This is but one example of how a web presence item may be recommended to a customer.

Some of these similar customers may have been guided to complete one or more of the web presence items e.g. through a guided workflow as described herein . Alternatively these similar customers may have completed the items without such guidance.

In a process that may be similar to that described in regards to methods and system for selection of recommend actions for a customer based on outcomes of similar customers is depicted in . In particular presents an algorithm for selection of a recommended next action for improving the web presence of a customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence and outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps not yet completed by the customer . Customer data may be retrieved from dataset described in detail in association with herein. The customer data may be used to provide a next recommended action for improving the web presence of the customer by allowing analysis of the customer status type and comparing these aspects of web presence to other similar customers to determine actions taken by the other customers that are not yet taken by the customer . Outcomes from these similar customers who have taken actions not yet taken by the customer can be determined e.g. by a customer outcome generator based on customer data and used to further help identify candidate actions for recommending to the customer . Customer information such as status and type desires and the like may be applied to this candidate list e.g. by a next action recommender to identify such a by filtering the candidate list a particular next action to recommend to the customer to improve the customer s web presence.

The example of includes a data structure that may be configured to store the customer s status of web presence items as described in association with that may include the customer s status of standard actions for establishing a web presence.

The methods and systems may be configured to include a next action recommender to recommend the next actions to the customer as described herein. The next action recommender may generate the recommended next action for improving the web presence of the customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence the customer s recent action activity the customer s desires outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps or actions not yet completed by the customer and the like.

The information about the steps or actions completed by similar customers may be used to reference customer information from a customer database to preparing information that is relevant to determining customer outcomes. For example as shown in the particular customer for whom a recommended next action is being generated and similar customers A C and D have completed actions A C D and G. However these similar customers have also completed actions B E F and H that the particular customer has not yet completed. These additional completed actions can be used to access the customer database to provide information relevant to outcomes to a customer outcome generator to help determine customer outcomes based on these completed actions. The next action recommender may use this outcome information to recommend one or more next actions to the customer . The one or more recommended next actions may further be based on the customer type and or customer desires for web presence .

Referring now to the methods and systems of can be adapted to provide a recommended path for a customer. In particular depicts an algorithm for selection of a recommended path for improving the web presence of a customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence desires of the customer and outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps not yet completed by the customer.

Customer data may be retrieved from dataset described in detail in association with herein. The customer data may be used to provide a next recommended path for improving the web presence of the customer by allowing analysis of the customer status type desires and comparing these aspects of web presence to other similar customers to determine actions taken by the other customers that are not yet taken by the customer . Outcomes from these similar customers who have taken actions not yet taken by the customer can be determined e.g. by a customer outcome generator based on customer data and used to further help identify candidate actions for recommending to the customer . Customer information such as status and type desires and the like may be applied to this candidate list e.g. by an improvement path recommender to identify e.g. by filtering based on customer desires a particular next path to recommend to the customer to improve the customer s web presence.

The example of includes a data structure that may be configured to store the customer s status of web presence items as described in association with that may include the customer s status of standard actions for establishing a web presence.

The methods and systems may be configured to include an improvement path recommender to recommend a path to a customer as described herein. The improvement path recommender may generate the recommended improvement path for improving the web presence of the customer based on at least one of the type of customer the status of completion of a set of standard actions for establishing a web presence desires of the customer recent actions taken by the customer outcomes achieved by similar types of customers that took steps or actions not yet completed by the customer and the like.

The information about the steps or actions completed by similar customers may be used to reference customer information from a customer database to preparing information that is relevant to determining customer outcomes. For example as shown in the particular customer for whom a recommended improvement path is being generated and similar customers A C and D have completed actions A C D and G. However these similar customers have also completed actions B E F and H that the particular customer has not yet completed. These additional completed actions can be used to access the customer database to provide information relevant to outcomes to a customer outcome generator to help determine customer outcomes based on these completed actions. The improvement path recommender may use this outcome information to recommend one or more web presence improvement paths to the customer . The one or more recommended improvement paths may further be based on the customer type and or customer desires for web presence .

As described herein recommendations for web presence improvement may be based in part on standards other customer s actions and outcomes and the like. However a customer s desires may provide a critical element of filtering of such recommendations so that candidate recommendations may be filtered or prioritized according to client desires that are explicitly expressed or inferred In an example of web presence related recommendation e.g. an element action path and the like a customer may identify marketing as a desire . The analysis of similar customers described at least in and may suggest recommending one or more of blogging email and security for improving the customer s web presence. However because of the customer s desire for marketing the candidate recommendations may be filtered based on a relevance of the candidate recommendations to the customer desire of marketing which may result in email being recommended for web presence improvement as it may have a greater likelihood of fulfilling a marketing desire than blogging or security.

Recency of customer actions may also be factored into recommendations for web presence improvements. In an example of recency impacting web presence improvement recommendations a user s recent actions resulted in publishing a website. Therefore because the steps that the customer most recently performed related to publishing a website recommendations for next actions web presence improvements paths and the like may use these recent website publishing actions as an indication for what might be recommended. In another example if a user s most recent actions were to add blogging capabilities to the user s web presence a recommended next action might be related to having just initiated such a blogging capability e.g. to promote the blog.

The methods and systems described herein for web presence recommendations and improvements may also be combined with advertising and or promotional facilities such as to enhance the value of a web hosting client to a web hosting provider. At least the final recommendations and or intermediate results e.g. candidate recommendations customer outcomes and the like may be used to target promotion of products and or services e.g. an on line shopping cart service a foreign currency conversion service a business card product and the like . Methods and systems for targeting promotional materials advertisements and the like may be combined with the methods and systems of web presence improvement recommendation so that promotional materials may be targeted based on factors such as customer desires and the like. In a basic example if a recommended next action is to provide security features for a website website security providers may be promoted to the user that is receiving the recommended next action. A determination of which product and or service to promote may also be based on analysis of similar customers responses to such service or promotion. IN this way not only can similar customers web presence related actions be analyzed to determine a next recommended action but those same or other customers actions in response to a promotion e.g. in response to receiving an email with a link to a website security provider service or product may be captured and used for various purposes including determining which promotion to provide to the customer.

Methods and systems for providing at least one portable guided workflow for guiding a customer to enable an element of a web presence are depicted in . In particular depicts providing at least one portable workflow for guiding a customer through a path of tasks associated with establishing an element of a web presence wherein upon a customer s performing tasks within the workflow the element of the web presence is automatically established. Alternatively depicts providing a workflow for establishing a customer s web presence porting the workflow and a link to the logic engine for executing the workflow to a customer s customer and enabling the customer s customer to use and extend the workflow to establish an element of a web presence. Upon the customer s customer performing tasks within the ported workflow an element of the customer s customer s web presence is automatically established.

In the example of customer may generate a customer specific workflow to add a logo web presence element to the customer s web page . The workflow may execute on logic engine as described herein to generate the logo web presence element as desired by the customer . The customer may configure the customer specific workflow to be a portable workflow that may be ported to customer s customer A and or customer B. Customer A may execute the ported customer specific workflow via the logic engine to place the same logo web presence element that is visible on customer pages onto customer A s web pages . Similarly customer B may use the ported workflow via logic engine to place the logo web presence element on customer B s pages . In this way the customer specific workflow may enable a customer s customer to maintain a similar look and feel as customer for at least some web presence elements. The ported workflow may for example allow the placement of the logo in a specific location on each of customers A and B pages or may allow customers A and B to identify a particular location for the logo. In this way the ported workflow is useable by a customer s customer while enabling a degree of flexibility in establishing the web presence element.

An alternate embodiment of providing a portable work flow may include configuring an automated workflow for use by an automated web presence enablement platform such as a script based platform for automatically updating and or providing web presence elements for users. In an example customer specific work flow may be ported to automated web presence enablement platform where information such as a user s current web presence elements indication of web presence interests web hosting information and the like may be processed to configure adapt and or provide input to the workflow so that a logic engine such as the logic engine and or a web element enablement logic engine associated with the automated web presence enablement platform may process the adapted workflow to provide a web presence element for a user such as providing a logo on customer n web page or pages .

An example of creating a portable workflow for the web presence element type logo is described in detail in . Customer may use the portable workflow user interface to identify one or more web presence elements such as logo . A default workflow may be identified within the user interface for each type of web presence element. By selecting web presence element the portable workflow user interface may direct the user that workflow A will be generated as a portable workflow . The portable workflow user interface may further allow the customer to identify other customers e.g. customer A customer B etc for receiving the portable workflow that enables a logo web presence element. Customer customer A and or customer B may process the portable workflow via logic engine to enable a logo web presence element on the customer s respective web pages and .

The portable workflows depicted in may be generated via the methods and systems for generating a guided workflow for improving a customer s web presence based on an area of improvement for the customer as depicted in .

Similarly the portable workflows depicted in may be generated via the methods and systems depicted in for generating guided workflows with a central command center that may be associated with a logic engine one or more web presence enabling platforms an abstraction layer that may include a user interface for establishing business rules for processing the guided workflow a host API module and the like.

Likewise the portable workflows depicted in may be generated via the methods and systems for generating a workflow with a profile based wizard as depicted in .

While only a few embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that many changes and modifications may be made thereunto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as described in the following claims. All patent applications and patents both foreign and domestic and all other publications referenced herein are incorporated herein in their entireties to the full extent permitted by law.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software program codes and or instructions on a processor. The present invention may be implemented as a method on the machine as a system or apparatus as part of or in relation to the machine or as a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium executing on one or more of the machines. In embodiments the processor may be part of a server cloud server client network infrastructure mobile computing platform stationary computing platform or other computing platform. A processor may be any kind of computational or processing device capable of executing program instructions codes binary instructions and the like. The processor may be or may include a signal processor digital processor embedded processor microprocessor or any variant such as a co processor math co processor graphic co processor communication co processor and the like and the like that may directly or indirectly facilitate execution of program code or program instructions stored thereon. In addition the processor may enable execution of multiple programs threads and codes. The threads may be executed simultaneously to enhance the performance of the processor and to facilitate simultaneous operations of the application. By way of implementation methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread may spawn other threads that may have assigned priorities associated with them the processor may execute these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code. The processor or any machine utilizing one may include memory that stores methods codes instructions and programs as described herein and elsewhere. The processor may access a storage medium through an interface that may store methods codes and instructions as described herein and elsewhere. The storage medium associated with the processor for storing methods programs codes program instructions or other type of instructions capable of being executed by the computing or processing device may include but may not be limited to one or more of a CD ROM DVD memory hard disk flash drive RAM ROM cache and the like.

A processor may include one or more cores that may enhance speed and performance of a multiprocessor. In embodiments the process may be a dual core processor quad core processors other chip level multiprocessor and the like that combine two or more independent cores called a die .

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software on a server client firewall gateway hub router or other such computer and or networking hardware. The software program may be associated with a server that may include a file server print server domain server internet server intranet server cloud server and other variants such as secondary server host server distributed server and the like. The server may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other servers clients machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the server. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the server.

The server may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation clients other servers printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers social networks and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the server through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The software program may be associated with a client that may include a file client print client domain client internet client intranet client and other variants such as secondary client host client distributed client and the like. The client may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other clients servers machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the client. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the client.

The client may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation servers other clients printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the client through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs applications code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include elements such as computing devices servers routers hubs firewalls clients personal computers communication devices routing devices and other active and passive devices modules and or components as known in the art. The computing and or non computing device s associated with the network infrastructure may include apart from other components a storage medium such as flash memory buffer stack RAM ROM and the like. The processes methods program codes instructions described herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural elements. The methods and systems described herein may be adapted for use with any kind of private community or hybrid cloud computing network or cloud computing environment including those which involve features of software as a service SaaS platform as a service PaaS and or infrastructure as a service IaaS .

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access FDMA network or code division multiple access CDMA network. The cellular network may include mobile devices cell sites base stations repeaters antennas towers and the like. The cell network may be a GSM GPRS 3G EVDO mesh or other networks types.

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile devices may include navigation devices cell phones mobile phones mobile personal digital assistants laptops palmtops netbooks pagers electronic books readers music players and the like. These devices may include apart from other components a storage medium such as a flash memory buffer RAM ROM and one or more computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be enabled to execute program codes methods and instructions stored thereon. Alternatively the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile devices may communicate on a peer to peer network mesh network or other communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing devices associated with the base station.

The computer software program codes and or instructions may be stored and or accessed on machine readable media that may include computer components devices and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time semiconductor storage known as random access memory RAM mass storage typically for more permanent storage such as optical discs forms of magnetic storage like hard disks tapes drums cards and other types processor registers cache memory volatile memory non volatile memory optical storage such as CD DVD removable media such as flash memory e.g. USB sticks or keys floppy disks magnetic tape paper tape punch cards standalone RAM disks Zip drives removable mass storage off line and the like other computer memory such as dynamic memory static memory read write storage mutable storage read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable content addressable network attached storage storage area network bar codes magnetic ink and the like.

The methods and systems described herein may transform physical and or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems described herein may also transform data representing physical and or intangible items from one state to another.

The elements described and depicted herein including in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented on machines through computer executable media having a processor capable of executing program instructions stored thereon as a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations may be within the scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such machines may include but may not be limited to personal digital assistants laptops personal computers mobile phones other handheld computing devices medical equipment wired or wireless communication devices transducers chips calculators satellites tablet PCs electronic books gadgets electronic devices devices having artificial intelligence computing devices networking equipment servers routers and the like. Furthermore the elements depicted in the flow chart and block diagrams or any other logical component may be implemented on a machine capable of executing program instructions. Thus while the foregoing drawings and descriptions set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods and or processes described above and steps associated therewith may be realized in hardware software or any combination of hardware and software suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable of being executed on a machine readable medium.

The computer executable code may be created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software or any other machine capable of executing program instructions.

Thus in one aspect methods described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the disclosure has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present disclosure is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

While the foregoing written description enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The disclosure should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the system and method disclosed herein is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

