---

title: Insulating gasket construction for head-of-wall joints
abstract: A head-of-wall joint for insulating the intersection between a wall assembly and the bottom of a floor or roof construction thereabove which utilizes an insulating gasket of a unique shape and construction positioned between the ceiling track and the point of intersection thereof with respect to the upper building floor or roof structure. The configuration of the insulating gasket member includes a main section and two side sections which extend over the outwardly facing surfaces of a conventionally configured ceiling track or runner without being attached to the ceiling track side panel side surfaces. The gasket can included tabs to attach to the lowermost edges of the track side sections. The gasket can be made from acoustically insulating materials or firestopping materials, or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08826599&OS=08826599&RS=08826599
owner: Specified Technologies Inc.
number: 08826599
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130102
---
The present utility application hereby formally claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 61 633 416 filed Feb. 10 2012 on CONSTRUCTION FOR FIRESTOPPING HEAD OF WALL JOINTS filed by the same inventor listed herein namely James P. Stahl Jr and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application namely Specified Technologies Inc. said referenced provisional patent application is hereby formally incorporated by reference as an integral part of the present application.

The present utility application also hereby formally claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent application No. 61 686 038 filed Mar. 29 2012 on CONSTRUCTION FOR FIRESTOPPING HEAD OF WALL JOINTS filed by the same inventor listed herein namely James P. Stahl Jr and assigned to the same assignee as the present patent application namely Specified Technologies Inc. said referenced provisional patent application is hereby formally incorporated by reference as an integral part of the present application.

The present invention deals generally with the field of acoustical or firestopping insulating including possibly intumescent or felt type material components. In the prior art various means were utilized for the purposes of achieving insulation of head of wall joints but all have been proved to be inadequate. For example traditionally mineral wool has been installed or coatings or sealants have been applied in these in these areas for achieving firestop sealing and for acoustical sealing various different materials have been used to prevent sound transmission. Also the use of tape having an intumescent component has been applied to the side downwardly extending flanges of the track for firestopping. These systems include various important disadvantages. Such prior art heat of wall insulating attempts have required an extensive amount of manual labor at the job site. Also with the use of insulating tape and other similar constructions. the metal tracks often require a unique construction on the exterior surface of the metal track which can have a predefined area such as a recess or the like which identifies the specific location required for placement of such an intumescent and or acoustic layer of insulation material such as tape. One of the advantages of the apparatus of the present invention is that it is usable with conventionally OEM metal track construction and does not require any customized design for the ceiling runner primarily because these present construction works best when not attached in any manner to the track side surfaces sections particularly where it is important to allow for some amount relative movement therebetween during normal expansion and contraction of building materials and sections which occurs commonly.

In particular as the joint moves responsive to normal expansion and contraction of the building components the insulating tape and or the coatings of insulating material which is attach directly to the surfaces of the downwardly extending side sections of the ceiling track can become dislodged from components of the head of wall area that is particularly dislodging from the surfaces of the downwardly extending side sections of the track or runner. Also these systems do not specifically address variations in the contour or profile of the ceiling or roof area which comes into direct abutment with the upper portion of the metal track. Such variations in the configuration of the building construction in this area can form gaps between the track and the adjacent roof or ceiling area which are not adequately addressed for insulation by the above described prior art systems.

Many patents have been granted for various constructions for insulating head of wall joints such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 010 702 patented Apr. 30 1991 to T. L. Daw et al and assigned to Daw Technologies Inc. on a Modular Wall System and U.S. Pat. No. 5 127 203 patented Jul. 7 1992 to R. F. Paquette on a Seismic Fire Resistant Wall Structure and Method and U.S. Pat. No. 5 755 066 patented May 26 1998 to D. W. Becker on a Slip Track Assembly and U.S. Pat. No. 5 913 788 patented Jun. 22 1999 to T. R. Herren on a Fire Blocking And Seismic Resistant Wall Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 5 921 041 patented Jul. 13 1999 to J. D. Egri II on a Bottom Track For Wall Assembly and U.S. Pat. No. 5 950 385 patented Sep. 14 1999 to T. R. Herren on an Interior Shaft Wall Construction and U.S. Pat. No. 6 058 668 patented May 9 2000 to 0T. R. Herren on a Seismic And Fire Resistant Head of Wall Structure and U.S. Pat. No. 6 176 053 patented Jan. 23 2001 to Roger C. A. St. Germain and assigned to Robert C. A. St. Germain on a Wall Track Assembly And Method For Installing The Same and U.S. Pat. No. 6 783 345 patented Aug. 31 2004 to M. D. Morgan et al and assigned to W.R. Grace Co. Conn on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 880 patented May 16 2006 to M. D. Morgan et al and assigned to W.R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0137293 published Jun. 29 2006 to J. A. Klein on Head Of Wall Fireblocks And Related Wall Assemblies and U.S. Pat. No. 7 152 385 patented Dec. 26 2006 to M. D. Morgan et al and assigned to W.R. Grace Co. Conn. on In Situ Molded Thermal Barriers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 905 patented Jul. 10 2007 to J. P. Stahl Sr. and assigned to Specified Technologies Inc. on a Method And Apparatus For Sealing A Joint Gap Between Two Independently Movable Structural Substrates and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0090074 published Apr. 9 2009 to J. A. Klein on Head Of Wall Fireblock Systems And Related Wall Assemblies and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0178363 published Jul. 16 2009 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on an Exterior Wall Construction Product and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009 0223159 published Sep. 10 2009 to Mark Colon on a Fire Block And Thermal Barrier System For Fluted Metal Decks and U.S. Pat. No. 7 617 643 patented Nov. 17 2009 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on a Fire Rated Wall Construction Product and U.S. Pat. No. 7 681 365 patented Mar. 23 2010 to J. A. Klein on Head Of Wall Fireblock Systems And Related Wall Assemblies and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010 0126092 published May 27 2010 to D. A. Pilz et al on a Fire Rated Wall Construction Product and U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 817 patented Jul. 13 2010 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on a Two Piece Track System and U.S. Pat. No. 7 814 718 patented Oct. 19 2010 to J. A. Klein on Head Of Wall Fireblocks and U.S. Pat. No. 7 866 108 patented Jan. 11 2011 to J. A. Klein on Head Of Wall Fireblock Systems And Related Wall Assemblies and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0011019 published Jan. 20 2011 on a Firestopping Sealing Means For Use With Gypsum Wallboard In Head Of Wall Construction and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0113709 published May 19 2011 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on a Wall Gap Fire Block Device System and Method and U.S. Pat. No. 7 950 198 patented May 31 2011 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on a Fire Rated Wall Construction Product and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0185656 published Aug. 4 2011 to J. A. Klein on a Fire Retardant Cover For Fluted Roof Deck and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0214371 published Sep. 8 2011 on an Offset Leg Framing Element For Fire Stop Applications and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0247281 published Oct. 13 2011 to D. A. Pilz et al and assigned to California Expanded Metal Products Company on a Fire Rated Wall Construction Product .

The present invention provides an insulating gasket construction for sealing a head of wall area between the ceiling thereabove and a wall assembly therebeneath. This wall assembly will include a ceiling track having a generally horizontally extending main track with a first track side section extending downwardly therefrom and a second side track section extending downwardly therefrom at a position spatially disposed from the first track section. The main track the first track and the second track define therebetween a frame receiving area which is of an inverted C shaped configuration. This frame receiving area is defined to receive the wall assembly mounted therewithin. The insulating gasket construction includes a main gasket section which is at least partially made of an insulating material and which extends generally horizontally and is positioned in direct abutment with respect to the main track of the ceiling track and extends thereabove. The first track side section is at least partially made of insulating material and extends downwardly from the main track section to extend over the first track side section of the ceiling track.

Similarly a second gasket side section is at least partially made of insulating material and extends downwardly from the main gasket section and is spatially disposed from the first gasket side section to extend over the second track side section of the ceiling track. The main gasket section along with the first gasket side section and the second gasket side section will together define a track receiving area therebeneath which is generally C shaped in configuration and faces downwardly therefrom and is adapted to receive the ceiling track therewithin. Preferably the main gasket section and the first and second gasket side sections are integrally formed with respect to one another.

The insulating gasket construction can be made partially from a firestopping insulating material which could be an intumescent firestopping material. It also can be made solely from an acoustical insulating material for applications where sound transmissions are found to be desirable. Such acoustical insulating configurations can preferably be formed of a felt acoustically insulating material. It is also possible for the insulating gasket construction of the present invention to have components of both firestopping and acoustical sealing therewithin and with such configurations firestopping can be provided by an intumescent component and acoustical sealing can be provided by a felt material all in the same construction.

In one configuration the first side gasket section will include at least one first tab extending inwardly therefrom into the track receiving area which is positionable in engagement with the lowermost edge of the first side track for attachment of the first gasket side section adjacent thereto and wherein the second gasket side section includes at least one second tab extending inwardly therefrom into the track receiving area which is positionable in engagement with the second lowermost edge of the second track side section for attachment of the second gasket side section adjacent thereto. These tabs preferably are formed by punching semi circular slits or cuts in the material of the side section to allow the tabs to extend inwardly therefrom into the track receiving area defined therewithin.

The gasket side section can be spatially disposed outwardly from the first track side to the define a first track therebetween and a second gasket side section can be spatially disposed outward from the second track side to define a second track therebetween. Furthermore a fastener can be provided positionable extending vertical outwardly through the main track section of the ceiling track and through the main gasket section of the insulation gasket construction into the ceiling thereabove to affix the insulating gasket construction and the ceiling track with respect to the head of wall area simultaneously.

In one of the preferred configurations of the present invention the first gasket side section will extend downwardly and outwardly with respect to the main gasket section at an outwardly splayed angle of greater than 90 degrees with respect to one another. Similarly the second gasket side section will extend downwardly and outwardly with respect to the main gasket section at an outwardly splayed angle of greater than 90 degrees with respect thereto.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to effectively seal between conventionally designed metal track sections and the immediately adjacent roof or ceiling area for firestopping and or acoustic insulating thereof.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to be usable with conventional steel framing and gypsum board wall constructions.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to be usable with floor or roof constructions of any conventional construction including solid concrete or a composite material installed atop a corrugated steel deck.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to prevent the spread of sound noise fire super heated gases flames and or smoke in these areas.

It is an object of the construction for acoustical and or thermal insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to provide more effective insulating by providing attachment of the insulating material to the metal track only in the central upper portion thereof or at the lowermost edges of the track side walls without any attachment whatsoever to the surfaces of the downwardly extending track side sections to facilitate insulating therearound irrespective of the normal expansion and contraction of building structural components that take place over the time period prior to the occurrence of the fire conditions.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to minimize costs and maintenance requirements.

It is an object of the construction for insulating head of wall joints of the present invention to expedite installation and minimize labor costs.

The present invention discloses an insulating gasket usable positioned adjacent to the head of wall joint of a conventional building construction for insulating sealing thereof which can be acoustically insulating or can be firestopping. If configured for firestopping the insulating gasket may include a firestopping material which may be intumescent. If configured for acoustic insulating the insulating gasket will include an acoustically insulating material therewithin. For either of these two purposes the insulating gasket will be positioned between the upper building structure of a floor or roof and a wall assembly therebelow which may be fire rated or may have a need for acoustical insulation. Such wall assemblies usually include steel framing members or studs with gypsum board mounted thereupon and extending vertically therewith.

A ceiling track or runner is secured to the bottom area of the upper building structure floor or roof conventionally such that it is adapted to receive the framing members positioned therewithin for maintaining attachment therebetween. The ceiling track preferably includes a main track section which normally extends approximately horizontally and a first track side section extending approximately vertically downwardly therefrom and a second track side section extending approximately vertically downward therefrom at a position spatially disposed from the first track side section . In this manner a framing receiving area is defined between the first track side section and the second track side section into which the upper portion of the steel framing studs extend.

The insulating gasket of the present invention will preferably be formed as a paper product having significant flexibility and will include at least one component which provides the intumescence firestopping insulation or if acoustic will preferably include a felt material to minimize sound transmissions therethrough. With either construction the insulating material will be particularly flexible. However in the present invention enhanced strength or reinforcement of the material can be provided by including a reinforcing facing member on one side of the insulating gasket member of polyethylene material or other similar material. For example an inner facing reinforcing member can be positioned extending over the gasket insulating section facing the ceiling track . However it is preferable to provide an outer facing reinforcing member which comprises a layer extending over the surface of the gasket insulating section facing outwardly away from the ceiling track . It should be appreciated that although this reinforcing facing member can be applied on the outwardly facing portion of the insulating gasket member or the inwardly facing portion that preferably it is positioned on the outwardly facing surface particularly when aesthetic considerations are of a concern.

The construction of the insulating gasket is similar to the overall construction of the ceiling track or runner since it includes a main gasket section extending generally horizontally with a first gasket side section extending vertically downwardly on one side thereof and a second gasket side section extending vertically downward on the opposite side thereof. The first and second gasket side sections and will be spaced apart from one another to define therebetween a track receiving area for receiving of the ceiling track of a similar complementary shape positioned therewithin. With this configuration the main gasket section will extend generally horizontally at a position immediately above the main track section of ceiling track . Also the first gasket side section will extend generally vertically downwardly at a position immediately adjacent to and extending over the first track side section . Similarly the second gasket side section will extend generally vertically downwardly at a position extending adjacent to and over the outwardly facing surface of the second track section . This mated configuration between the insulating gasket and the ceiling track is best shown in .

To facilitate positioning of the generally U shaped ceiling track within track receiving area of the U shaped insulating gasket the insulating gasket will preferably be constructed with the first side gasket section and the second side gasket section outwardly splayed from the main gasket section . That is first gasket side section will preferably extend vertically downwardly and outwardly from the main gasket section at an outwardly splayed angle which is greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 to be obtuse. Similarly the section gasket side section will extend generally vertically downwardly and outwardly from the main gasket section at an obtuse or outwardly splayed angle therebetween. In this manner the U shaped track receiving area of the insulating gasket will have an outwardly splayed U shape shape for facilitating receiving of the ceiling track thereinto. Thus it will much easier for installation persons to position of the insulating gasket in surrounding engagement with respect to the ceiling track with the main track section the first side track section and the second track side section easily positioned within track receiving area .

It should be appreciated that one of the advantages of the construction of the present invention is that the outwardly splayed angle of first gasket side section relative to the main gasket section will inherently define a first gap between the first gasket side section and the first track side section located thereadjacent. Similarly the outwardly splayed angle of second gasket side section relative to the main gasket section will inherently define a second gap between the second gasket side section and the second track side section located thereadjacent. This spacing created by the first gap and the second gap between the insulating gasket member and the first gasket side section and the second gasket side section respectively has been found to greatly enhance the firestopping and acoustical insulating characteristics thereof.

In most prior art constructions the ceiling tracks or runners are attached directly to the bottom of the upper building floor or roof structure by the use of fasteners such as staples nails screws or other penetrating fastening members usually made of steel. The positioning of this fastener is best shown in . It is important consideration of the present invention to appreciate that when an insulating gasket is positioned in surrounding relationship with respect to a ceiling track or runner prior to affixing of the track to the bottom of the upper building structure then attachment to the upper building structure thereof is performed in the conventional manner by placement of such penetrating fasteners in engagement with and usually extending through the insulating gasket simultaneously with placing thereof through the ceiling track which allows attachment to be made without requiring any additional labor expense of time and or effort. That is normally such fasteners penetrate through the main track section of a ceiling track for securement of the ceiling track to the bottom of the upper building structure . The conventional labor process for making this attachment will thusly also attach the insulating gasket in proper position without requiring any additional labor effort. This is a very important aspect of the present invention because it minimizes costs by not increasing the labor time for installation when installing the insulating gasket of the present invention. Furthermore it is very important to consider that this manner of attachment will allow both the first gasket side section and the second gasket side section to move freely over the outer surfaces of the downwardly extending first track side section and second track side section because there is no attachment therebetween and because they are initially splayed slightly outwardly at greater than 90 degrees. The absence of direct attachment between first track side section and first gasket side section as well as the lack of direct attachment between the second track side section and the second gasket side section allows this freedom of movement while still maintaining the gasket side sections and at positions adjacent the respective trackside section and while still positioning the gasket side sections and extending generally thereover to facilitate insulating when needed.

Commonly such head of wall structures include an open area immediately above the track as shown in . These areas will be maintained as being sealed by firestopping pillows as shown in usually primarily comprise mineral wool material. It should be particularly appreciated that the insulating gasket can include any one of a wide variety of different insulating materials. The preferential insulating component for this gasket member would be an intumescent material for firestopping. However many other insulating materials would be effective for firestopping depending somewhat upon the construction and materials with which the apparatus of the present invention is used. It is only necessary that the insulation component be exposed to the area in the vicinity of the head of wall area.

Furthermore the insulating gasket of the present invention can be made with an acoustic insulating version component which may or may not include a firestopping component. For example another different insulating material that could be used would be felt type material that could be similarly strengthened by a reinforcing facing member preferably positioned as an outer reinforcing facing member preferably of a polyethylene material. The use of felt material in the gasket insulation section of the insulating gasket would be advantageous because it would provide unique acoustic properties that would enhance the acoustic insulating characteristics of the gasket of the present invention. Because of the lack of structural strength in such felt material use would usually require an outer reinforcing member as shown best in to fully strengthen the gasket insulation section .

An additional means of securement is provided by the inclusion of attachment tabs defined formed in the first and second gasket side sections and by forming side perforations along each of the gasket side sections and . The preferred construction for providing these attachment tabs is by making a semi circular cut line preferably by a semicircular shaped punch which is arcuate in the upper portion and is generally C shaped and faces downwardly toward the lower edges and of the first and second gasket side sections and respectively to form the attachment tabs facing upwardly therefrom. Preferably the location of each of these punched sections will form an attachment tab of the gasket material centrally located within the C shaped punch which will be spaced upwardly from the first lower edge of first gasket side section and will be spaced upwardly from the second lower edge of the second gasket side section . Each of the first tabs and the second tabs will extending inwardly from the first gasket side section and second gasket side section into the frame receiving area . In this manner the first gasket side section will extend around and be attached with respect to the first lowermost edge of the first track side section and the second gasket side section will extend around and be attached to the second lowermost edge second track side section . The attachment tabs defined in the first gasket side section are referenced herein as the first tabs . The attachment tabs defined in the second gasket side section are referenced herein as the second tabs . Tabs will extend downwardly beneath the first lowermost edge of first track side section . Tabs will extend downwardly beneath the second lowermost edge of second track side section . Neither of the track side sections and will be otherwise secured with respect to the vertically extending surface of either of the track side sections and . Thus effective positioning of the first and second gasket side sections and can be achieved without requiring any expansive securement thereof onto the surfaces of the main track side sections and . That is the securement will be to the first and second lowermost edges and of the track side sections and respectively rather than onto any portion of the expansive surfaces thereof.

Preferably there will be a plurality of such first attachment tabs positioned along the longitudinally extending length of the first gasket side section and a plurality of such second attachment tabs positioned along the longitudinally extending length of the second gasket side sections to achieve effective attachment thereto.

While particular embodiments of this invention have been shown in the drawings and described above it will be apparent that many changes may be made in the form arrangement and positioning of the various elements of the combination. In consideration thereof it should be understood that preferred embodiments of this invention disclosed herein are intended to be illustrative only and not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

