---

title: Identifying video files of a video file storage system having relevance to a first file
abstract: Methods and systems for providing related video files in a video file storage system are disclosed. One method includes identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system, wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file, wherein the video file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing videos, and each video file includes a video and associated information. The method further includes generating, by a system server, a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files, providing, by the system server, the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file, receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries, selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response, and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141629&OS=09141629&RS=09141629
owner: Python4Fun, Inc.
number: 09141629
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131123
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 438 358 filed Apr. 3 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The described embodiments relate generally to search results. More particularly the described embodiments relate to methods and systems for identifying video files of a video file storage system having relevance to a first file.

Search engines running on video file storage systems use a variety of search techniques to present individual videos or video files or files embedded with video to users based on one or more search terms that are provided by the users. The relevance of search results relate closely to the search terms creators or date created. The search engine generally produces a large number of results with videos that include some irrelevant results and are difficult to sort for relevant videos or video files. Many suggested videos are not relevant to the user. Relevant results are not always provided.

It is desirable to have methods and systems for providing a list of videos related to the selected video relevant to the subject matter of the selected video.

One embodiment includes a method of automatically identifying one or more videos in a video file storage system related to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file wherein the video file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing videos and each video file includes a video and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected.

Another embodiment includes providing the list of enquiries to more than one creator. In another embodiment a different list of inquiries is provided to a first creator and other creators. The identified video files are ranked based on the responses from all the creators and a subset of video files is selected.

Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.

The described embodiments are embodied in methods and systems for providing a set of video files to a user in a video file storage system where the set of video files have relevance to the first file from a search or retrieval of a record identifying the first file.

The video file storage system is updated constantly as users add video files to the video file storage system. As the number of video files grows large existence of the video file may not be known to many users if relevant hyperlinks to other video files are not created. Creating hyperlinks is a manual task and often few video files are hyperlinked together in a video file storage system. Search engines provide access to the video files that are not hyperlinked.

Unlike machine generated references using an algorithm running on a computer the judgment of creators in selecting related video files is valuable to other readers due to the creator s intrinsic understanding and motivation to identify materials related to the video file written by that creator. In general a creator or expert has greater interest and more precise understanding of the subject matter of what they wrote in their video file compared to other readers. In several embodiments a creator may be any of a creator of the video file a director a narrator a transcript creator a sound technician a music director an expert on the subject matter or a team member anyone who has write privilege to the first file or anyone who posts the file on a social network newsfeed.

Search engines list related video files that are published before or after a file has been published. When a file is selected from the search results a set of related video files may be presented by the search engine. The set of related video files are based on some criteria such as the number of hyperlinks a video file has common subject matter and the frequency of certain phrases in the meta data or text transcription of the video file. The number of hyperlinks is one of the criteria for search engines to list a video file at the top of the related video files. If a video file has no hyperlinks the search engine may not list a video file at the top though the video file may be relevant. The criteria for suggesting a list of related video files can be improved by using an expert or creator to recommend the video files through hyperlinks. The process of semi automating the presentation of a list of related video files is described in the embodiments.

A set of video files related to the first file is identified in video file storage system by server . In one embodiment identifying in video file storage system includes server identifying a set of video files related to the first file and receiving the list of identified video files. In another embodiment identifying in video file storage system includes server receiving the list of identified video files. In several embodiments the set of identified video files can be the output of natural language search or text analysis on the meta data or text transcript of the video file or from collaborative filtering or any other search technique. In several embodiments the search can be based on a string of words or a picture or a creator. The set of video files is derived based on a relationship with the first file. The relationship can be any one of or some of creator of the first file frequently used noun phrases in the meta data or text transcript of the video file date created later than the first file a specific date created or a date created after a specific date. Video files published from a creator tend to have common subject matter. Frequently used noun phrases in the first file are also keywords for searching related video files. However the occurrence of specific noun phrases in the video file storage system may change with technology or over a period of time. Many search engines may not have the intelligence to recognize the changing noun phrases over a period of time. In some embodiments the full text of the meta data or transcript is used for searching to yield more relevant related video files. Video files with date created later than the first file are valuable as users are generally interested in recent updates.

In an example a search engine operating on server uses the Google Data API to identify related video files in Youtube based on noun phrases in video file meta data and text transcript of the video file. Youtube is a free video file storage and transmission system. Google Data API is a powerful application programming interface that allows users to search for video files on Youtube . The algorithm used to generate the search terms automatically extracts noun phrases from a video file using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the video file meta data compared to the number of occurrences on the video file storage system.

Server generates a list of inquiries based on the set of video files related to the first file. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes questions asking the creator whether the video files are relevant to the first file and the search terms used in keyword search or noun phrase used to select the video file.

For an embodiment referring back to a first creator is notified of the list of inquiries generated by server . In the described embodiments a first creator is the creator of the first file an expert on the subject matter or a team member or anyone who has write privilege to the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically. In an embodiment the notification email contains a hyperlink to a webpage that contains the list of inquiries. In another embodiment the email contains the text of the inquiries. In another embodiment the notification is sent by an email or message on a social network such as Facebook or Instant message system. In another embodiment the notification is sent from a web based interface such as Jive or LinkedIn or Google Docs . The creator completes the inquiry by selecting one or more video files related to the first file in the opinion of the creator and sends the response to the server using any of the notification methods described above. Server receives the response to the inquiry from the creator and processes the response. The response includes a selection of video files related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file.

In an embodiment video files selected by the creator are ranked higher than the video files not selected by the creator. A subset of the ranked video files is selected. In another embodiment all video files selected by the creator are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked video files are selected. Server creates a hyperlink between the first file and the subset of selected ranked video files in the video file storage system. The hyperlink influences future search results of the engine when the first file or any of the subset of video files is involved. Server stores information about the subset of related video files in a storage system . The information includes one or more of hyperlinks to the related video files ranking of the video files the creator of the first file and metadata of the video files. In the described embodiments hyperlinks are references to video files that connect the users to another video file or a portion of the video file. In another embodiment storage system is a separate storage system. When a user selects the video identifier from search results or any other listing server retrieves information about the selected ranked related video files. In an embodiment the user is presented with a list of information about the related video files as shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

The list of inquiries generated by server is notified to the first creator . The list of inquiries is also notified to second creator . In the described embodiments the second creator is one or more creators other than the first creator. The first and second creators are notified electronically as described in conjunction with . Server receives responses from the first creator as well as the second creator. The response includes a selection of video files related to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. In an embodiment video files are ranked based on the number of selections from the first and the second creator. In an embodiment the video files selected by the first creator are ranked higher than the video files selected by second creator. In another embodiment all responses are ranked with the same weight. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked video files are selected. In another embodiment all video files selected by the first creator and the second creator are selected.

Information about the selected ranked video files is stored in a video file storage system . User selection of the first file identifier from search results or any other listing is sent to server . In an embodiment server retrieves information about the selected ranked list of related video files from the video file storage system before presenting to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

Second creator are notified electronically by methods discussed in conjunction with with the second list of inquiries. Server receives the second response from second creator and analyzes the second response. The second response further refines the machine generated search results. The second response includes a selection of video files related to the first file. In an embodiment the second response includes a ranked list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. Server ranks a related video file based on the number of selections from second creator. A subset of the ranked related video files is selected. In an embodiment all video files selected by second creator are selected. In another embodiment related video files receiving a certain rank are selected.

In an embodiment server generates a questionnaire based on identified video files related to the first file . The questionnaire includes the opinion of one or more creators of the identified video file about the selection as a related video file to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to the creators of identified video files . Server receives response3 from the creators of identified video files . In an embodiment server ranks an identified web page based on the number of selections from second creator and the selection from the creator of identified video files . A subset of the ranked related video files is selected.

In an embodiment all video files selected by second creator are selected for ranking. In another embodiment related video files receiving a certain rank are selected. Information related to the selected ranked video files is stored in video file storage system . In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked video files includes one or more of hyperlink to the selected video file the creator of the selected video file the title of the selected video file the creators the opinion of the creator of the selected video file opinion of the creators of the first file institution of the creator the published date and the selection rank date. When a user selects the first file identifier server retrieves the information related to the selected related video files from storage system . In several embodiments information related to the subset of selected ranked video files is presented to the user shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is presented to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. In another embodiment information about the opinion of the creator of the selected video file is presented to the user.

The list of inquiries is notified to first creator . A response is received from the creator. The response includes a selection of video files related to the first file and optionally the reason for relevancy in the creator s opinion. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. Server ranks the related video files based on the response from the creator. A subset of the ranked related video files is selected. Server stores information about the subset of selected ranked videos in a storage system . When a second search yields a plurality of search results containing the information identifying first file server retrieves the stored information about the subset of selected ranked video files and influences the ranking of the first file relative the search results when presenting the search results to the user. In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information.

In step the server automatically generates a list of inquires based on the search results of step to access the relevancy of the search result. The list of inquiries includes questions about each related video file. In an embodiment inquiries list the subject of one or more video files identified in the search the date created and the search terms used to identify the video file. Other embodiments may not list all the above items. shows an example of the list of inquiries presented to creators. In step the list of inquiries is notified to at least one creator of the first file. In the described embodiments the notification can be sent electronically by an email or message on a social network or instant message. Web based interface is another method of notifying the creator.

In step method receives at least one response to the list of inquiries from the creators. The response includes a selection whether any of the video files are relevant to the first file. In an embodiment if any of the video files are relevant a selection of the relevant video file and optionally the reason for the video file being relevant are presented to the server. In an embodiment the response includes a list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. In step method analyzes the responses from the creators. The related video files are ranked based on the number of selections received from the creators. A subset of the ranked related video files is selected. In an embodiment all video files selected by the creators are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked video files are selected. In another embodiment video files receiving certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of video files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the video file storage system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked video files related to the first file is stored. The information about the selected ranked video files includes at least one of hyperlinks to the video files in the video file storage system the rank of each video file in the selected subset metadata of the video files. The information may be stored on the video file storage system or any other storage system.

Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked video files that may be more relevant than the machine generated references. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of video files or a manual intervention may trigger steps . In step method receives a selection of the first file identifier or information about the first file from a user. The video file or information about the video file may be selected from search results or from a list of video files. The server retrieves the stored information about the selected ranked video files in step . In several embodiments information about the related video files is displayed to the user in step shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name email address and contact information. Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

One or more second creator of the first file are notified with the second list of inquiries in step . In step one or more second response is received from the second creator. In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated based on the list of identified video files in step A. The questionnaire includes whether the identified video files are related to the first file. The questionnaire is notified to one or more creators of the plurality of identified video files. In step B server receives response from one or more creators of the plurality of identified video files. In step the second response from the second creator is analyzed. In an embodiment video files are ranked based on the number of selections from the second creator. In another embodiment video files are ranked based on the response from creators of identified video files in addition to the response from second creator. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related web pages to the first file. In an embodiment the response includes identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. A subset of the ranked video files is selected. In an embodiment all video files selected by the second creator are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of ranked video files or video files with a certain rank are selected. Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of video files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the video file storage system when the first file is involved. In step information about the selected ranked subset of video files related to the first file is stored in a video file storage system. Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked video files that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of video files or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

In step the server receives a selection of the first file identifier. Information about the related video files of the first file stored in a storage system is retrieved in step . Information about the list of related video files is presented to the user in step . Steps are performed when a user selects the first file for display. Steps and are similar to steps and respectively. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

In step the list of inquiries is notified to one or more creators. In step method receives at least one response from the creators providing information about the relevancy of related video files to the first file and optionally the reason for a video file being related in the opinion of the creator. In step the related video files are ranked based on the number of selections from the creators. In an embodiment the response includes a ranked list of the related video files identifying the relevance of the related video files to the first file. A subset of the ranked video files is selected. Information related to the subset of video files is stored in a storage system in step . Method creates a hyperlink between the first file and the selected ranked subset of video files. The hyperlink can influence the search results in the video file storage system when the first file is involved. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps are performed to generate a list of selected ranked video files that may be more relevant than the machine generated referenced. In an embodiment steps are performed once. In another embodiment steps are performed at certain fixed intervals. In another embodiment events such as addition of a certain number of video files or a manual intervention may trigger steps .

A second search in the video file storage system using a search engine yields a first file and the server receives a selection of the first file identifier in step . The selection of the first file can influence the search results of future searches. The server retrieves information about the related video files stored in step from the storage system in step . In several embodiments in step information about the related video files is presented to the user shown in . In one embodiment the identity of the creators who selected each video file is revealed to the user by displaying meta data such as the creator s name address or contact information. Steps and may be similar to steps and . Steps and are repeated for every search yielding the first file. In an embodiment each of the steps of method may be a distinct step. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method. In an embodiment there could be multiple instances of method .

One or more video files related to a first file in the video file storage system are identified by server or server or server . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in a creator system or in the video file storage system or in server system . The related video files are identified by natural language search or text analysis or from collaborative filtering or any other search techniques. In an embodiment server or or extracts noun phrases from video files in the video file storage system using natural language processing tools and ranks them by the number of occurrences in the video file compared to the number of occurrences in the video file storage system. In one embodiment server searches the video file storage system uses Google Data API to automatically extract noun phrases from video file meta data in Youtube using natural language processing tools and rank them by the number of occurrences in the meta data compared to the number of occurrences in the video file storage system.

In an embodiment the list of inquiries generated by the system server includes one or more identified video files related to a first file. In an embodiment the inquiries include the search terms used in a search using text analysis or collaborative filtering. In another embodiment the list of inquires includes one or more identified video files and the noun phrases from the first file used to identify the video files. In an embodiment the list of inquiries presented to the first creator includes one or more subjects of related of video files the search term used to identify the related video files the noun phrases which are validated by their presence in the hyperlinks from the first file the date created the abstract and the unique identification. The list of inquiries for second creator is influenced by a response received from a first creator. The list of inquiries to second creator includes one or more of the selection of related video files by the first creator the search terms used to identify the related video file the noun phases used in citation validation techniques and the date created. In an embodiment the list of inquiries includes one or more of the types of relationship tags of the identified video file such as whether the identified video file summarizes the first file contradicts the first file or complements the first file. In an embodiment a questionnaire is generated to the creators of the identified video files. The questionnaire may contain questions whether the identified video file is related to the first file. The list of inquires is notified electronically to one or more creators. The notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network instant video or a web based interface notification.

The related video files are ranked based on the number of selections from the creators. In an embodiment a selection of the related video file from each creator is ranked equally. In another embodiment selection of a video file from the first creator receives higher ranking. In another embodiment selection of a video file from a creator who responds to queries more often is ranked higher. In another embodiment selection by the creator of the identified video files is ranked higher. In another embodiment selection of a video file by the creator of the first file and creator of the video file is ranked highest. A subset of the related video files is selected. In an embodiment all video files selected by the creators are selected. In another embodiment a certain number of the ranked video files are selected. In another embodiment video files receiving a certain rank are selected.

In an embodiment of a method of identifying video files of a video file storage system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator comprises at least one author of the first file. In an embodiment of a method further comprising generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second creator of the plurality of video files receiving from the at least one second creator of the plurality of video files at least one second response to the second list of inquiries re selecting the subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response and the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected. In an embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of video files to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one creator to the user.

In an embodiment of a method wherein identifying the at least one creator comprises providing the user with the at least one creator s name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the system server the selected subset of the plurality of video files to a user that selects the first file and identifying the at least one creator of the first file and the at least one creator of the plurality of video files to the user wherein identifying the at least one creator comprises providing the user with the at one of a name qualifications institution affiliation address or contact information of the at least one creator shown in . An embodiment of a method further comprising providing a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of the plurality of video files wherein the hyperlink influences a ranking of search results that include at least one of the first file and the plurality of video files.

An embodiment of a method wherein the plurality of video files are each identified by a plurality of video object searches wherein each search identifies one of the plurality of video files and the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of video object searches is refined by the at least one response. An embodiment of a method wherein at least one of the plurality of video object searches uses a keyword search application programming interface to access video files in the video file storage system. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes search terms used in a search that identified the first file and the plurality of video files thereby establishing a relationship between the first file and the plurality of video files by text analysis or collaborative filtering. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise strings of words. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise noun phrases. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise creator names cited by the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms comprise a term within the first file. An embodiment of a method the search is based on at least one of a word string a creator or an image. An embodiment of a method wherein the search terms are included within text of citations of the first file.

An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of video files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates is more recent than at least one of a first revision or a last revision date of the first file. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of video files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates comprise a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein each of the plurality of video files includes a publication date and wherein each of the publication dates comprise a date before a specific date. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes titles of at least a subset of the plurality of video files. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes creators of at least a subset of the plurality of video files.

An embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator includes a first creator and a second creator and wherein the list of inquiries for the first creator is influenced by a response received from the second creator. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries includes a relationship tag between at least one of the plurality of video files and the first file. An embodiment of a method where in the relationship tag comprises at least one question of whether the relationship of the at least one the plurality of video files to the first file is supportive contradictory or summarizing. An embodiment of a method wherein providing the list of inquiries to the at least one creator of the first file comprises electronically communicating the list of inquires to the at least one creator using a notification. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises at least one of an email messaging on a social network or instant message. An embodiment of a method wherein the notification comprises a web based interface notification. An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a selected subset of the plurality of video files that the at least one creator selects as being relevant to the first file.

An embodiment of a method wherein receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries comprises receiving a ranked list of at least a subset of the plurality of video files that identifies an order of relevance of the at least the subset of the plurality of video files to the first file. An embodiment of a method further comprising providing the at least one inquiry based on one response to at least one other creator receiving from the at least one other creator at least one second response to the at least one response re selecting the subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one second response storing information related to the re selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method wherein the list of inquiries is provided to a plurality of creators and responses received from each of the plurality of creators are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of video files. An embodiment of a method wherein a plurality of lists of inquiries are provided to a plurality of creators and responses received from each of the plurality of creators are compiled for selecting the subset of the plurality of video files. An embodiment of a method further comprising the at least one creator having a permission to edit the first file. An embodiment of a method for a server to identify video files having relevance to a first file comprising receiving by the server a plurality of video files wherein the plurality of video files were generated by a subject matter search generating by the server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the server the list of inquiries to a creator of the first file wherein the first file is a one of the plurality of video files receiving by the server from the creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting by the server a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response storing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method further comprising providing by the server the selected subset of the plurality of video files to a user that selects the first file. An embodiment of a system for identifying video files having relevance to a first file comprising a server configured to present on a first display a list of inquiries to an identified creator of a first file wherein the list of inquiries is based on a plurality of video files the server configured to receive from the identified creator at least one response to the list of inquiries the server configured to select a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response a server configured to present on a second display the selected subset of the plurality of video files to a user that selects the first file. An embodiment of a programmable storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying video files of a video file storage system having relevance to a first file the method comprising identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected.

An embodiment of a method of identifying video files of a video file storage system having relevance to a first file comprising identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file generating by a system server a first list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the first list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator of the plurality of video files at least one first response to the first list of inquiries generating by the system server a second list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the second list of inquiries to at least one second creator of the plurality of video files receiving from the at least one second creator of the plurality of video files at least one second response to the second list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one first response and the at least one second response storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected. An embodiment of a method wherein the at least one creator comprises at least one creator of one of the plurality of video files. An embodiment of a method wherein the information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files comprises an opinion of the at least one creator of either the first file or the plurality of video files. An embodiment of a method further comprises providing the opinion of the at least one creator to a user that selects the first file.

As shown in for the described embodiments server system includes processor system and memory system among others. Server system consists of one or more servers connected to the network. Server system can be a single unit distributed in various locations or virtualized. Processor system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of multiple parallel processors a single processor a system of processors having one or more central processors and or one or more specialized processors dedicated to specific tasks. Also processor system may include one or more Digital Signal Processors DSPs in addition to or in place of one or more Central Processing Units CPUs and or may have one or more digital signal processing programs that run on one or more CPU.

Memory system may include for example any one of some of any combination of or all of a long term storage system such as a hard drive a short term storage system such as random access memory a removable storage system such as a floppy drive or a removable drive and or flash memory. Memory system may include one or more machine readable mediums that may store a variety of different types of information. The term machine readable medium is used to refer to any medium capable carrying information that is readable by a machine. One example of a machine readable medium is a computer readable medium.

In an embodiment memory system stores code for search engine code to identify plurality of video files code to generate a list of inquiries questionnaire and code to select rank subset of plurality of video files . Memory system stores code for the search engine to search the video file storage system for video files related to a first file and returns the result to server system . In the described embodiments the first file can reside in the video file storage system or creator system or storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of video files or memory system or any other storage system. In an embodiment the search engine searches the abstract of the transcript or the title of the transcript. In another embodiment the search engine searches the entire transcript for keywords. The results from the search engine are ranked in order of relevancy. The relevancy may be the number of times the keyword appears in the transcript and the number of hyperlinks.

The keywords for searching related video files are supplied by the code to identify plurality of video files . The keywords may be all of or some of frequently used noun phrases the creator of the first file the creators listed in the references cited in the first file words from the title date created words related to subject matter. Once the server receives the list of video files related to the first file an inquiry is automatically generated by code to generate a list of inquiries and sent to one or more creators. The list of inquiries is based on the search results. The inquiries include the relevancy of each of video files listed as a related video file to the first file the reason for the video file being related to the first file. Code to select rank subset of plurality of video files selects a subset of the video files from search results stores information about the selected subset of video files and provides a hyperlink between the first file and the selected subset of video files. Selection of video files may also include ranking the video files based on the number of selection from the creators. In an embodiment responses from different creators can have different weight. Information related to the selected ranked subset of video files is stored. In an embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of video files is stored on a storage system for information related to selected ranked subset of video files . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of video files is stored in memory system . In another embodiment the information related to the selected ranked subset of video files is stored in the video file storage system. In an embodiment a hyperlink is created between the first file and the selected subset of video files. The hyperlink influences the ranking of search results by the search engine when the first file is involved.

Network is a network and or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another within an enterprise or on the Internet. User system is a user device connected to the network . User system selects a video file from the video file storage system. The video file is selected from a search result or from a listing of video files. Video file storage system is a shared storage system. All users can access the video file storage system to read and in some cases contribute to the video file storage system. Creator system is a user system in the network. The creator system has read and write access to video files in the video file storage system. A creator of a video file may be a producer of the video file the director of the video file the transcript creator the narrator co creator of the file an expert in the subject matter or a team member.

An embodiment includes a programmable storage device such as memory system readable by a machine such as processor system tangibly embodying a program of instructions when executed by the machine to perform a method of identifying files of a collaborative file storage system having relevance to a first file. The method includes identifying a plurality of video files within the video file storage system wherein the plurality of video files each have a relationship with the first file wherein the video file storage system provides a platform for storing and sharing videos and each video file includes a video and associated information. The method further includes generating by a system server a list of inquiries based on the plurality of video files providing by the system server the list of inquiries to at least one creator of the first file receiving from the at least one creator at least one response to the list of inquiries selecting a subset of the plurality of video files based on the at least one response and storing information related to the selected subset of the plurality of video files for access if the first file is selected.

Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated the described embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated.

