---

title: Implementing codebook subset restrictions in wireless communication systems
abstract: In MU-MIMO scenarios, a transmitting node () receives feedback on a feedback channel from a receiving node () regarding a channel between the transmitting and receiving nodes (). The feedback also includes preferences of the receiving node (). However, the feedback may not always be useful. For example, the receiving node () may indicate a preferred rank in the feedback that the transmitting node () cannot accommodate. To address such issues, mechanisms for the transmitting node () to convey its preferences to the receiving node () are proposed. The receiving node (), with such knowledge, can provide more useful feedback information to the transmitting node ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602181&OS=09602181&RS=09602181
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Publ)
number: 09602181
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20130813
---
This application claims priority and benefit of U.S. application 61 683 665 entitled IMPLEMENTING CODEBOOK SUBSET RESTRICTIONS IN HIGH SPEED DOWNLINK PACKET ACCESS SYSTEMS filed on Aug. 15 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The technical field of the present disclosure generally relates to wireless communication networks including methods apparatuses and or systems for channel quality reporting and in particular to high performance networks such as HSDPA high speed downlink packet access networks for implementing codebook subset restrictions.

Several new features are added for the long term HSPA high speed packet access evolution in order to meet the requirements set by the IMT A International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced . The main objective of these new features is to increase the average spectral efficiency.

One possible technique for improving downlink spectral efficiency would be to introduce support for multiple antennas employed at the transmitter and the receiver. For example a four branch MIMO multiple input multiple output can utilize up to four Tx transmit and Rx receive antennas to enhance the SM spatial multiplexing gains and to offer improved beam forming capabilities. Four branch MIMO provides up to 84 Mbps per 5 MHz carrier for high SNR signal to noise ratio users and improves coverage for low SNR users.

The current HSDPA system Release 7 10 supports one or two transmit antennas at the Node B. In these systems from channel sounding the UE user equipment measures the channel and reports the CSI channel state information in one sub frame to the Node B as feedback. Typically the CSI report includes a CQI channel quality indicator which explicitly indicates a preferred rank and a PCI precoding control index . The UE sends this report periodically for every subframe or TTI transmit time interval as feedback. Once the Node B receives this report it grants modulation and coding number of codes rank and the precoding channel indicator to each specific UE based on a scheduler metric.

Currently a 4 Tx transmission scheme for HSDPA is being discussed within the 3GPP 3Generation Partnership Project standardization process. One issue the 3GPP has discussed extensively is on the design of the precoding codebook. It was decided to use codebook with 16 elements for each rank.

A non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a method performed at a transmitting node of a wireless network to provide transmission control information to a receiving node. The transmission control information may specify one or more transmission characteristics that will be applied by the transmitting node in transmitting data to the receiving node. The method performed by the transmitting node may include providing feedback restriction information to the receiving node. The feedback restriction information may specify restrictions on a feedback report to be sent from the receiving node. The feedback restriction information may be provided over a control channel and the control channel may be a physical layer control channel. The method may also include receiving the feedback report from the receiving node. The feedback report may include one or more feedback parameters. Each feedback parameter may indicate a channel characteristic of a wireless channel between the transmitting node and the receiving node or may indicate a transmission characteristic preferred by the receiving node of data transmission from the transmitting node to the receiving node. The method may further include providing the transmission control information to the receiving node based on the feedback parameters.

A non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a computer readable medium that includes therein programming instructions. When a computer executes the programming instructions the computer may execute the method performed by a transmitting node of a wireless network to provide transmission control information as described above.

A non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a transmitting node of a wireless network. The transmitting node may be structured to provide transmission control information to a receiving node. The transmitting node may include a feedback manager and a transmission manager. The feedback manager may be structured to provide feedback restriction information to the receiving node. The feedback restriction information may be provided over a control channel which may be a physical layer control channel. The feedback manager may also be structured to receive the feedback report from the receiving node. The transmission manager may be structured to provide the transmission control information to the receiving node based on the feedback parameters.

A non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a method performed at a receiving node of a wireless network to provide a feedback report to a transmitting node. The feedback report may include one or more feedback parameters. The method performed by the receiving node may include receiving feedback restriction information from the transmitting node. The feedback restriction information may be received over a control channel which may be a physical layer control channel. The method may also include estimating a channel state of a communication channel between the transmitting node and the receiving node based on a reference signal transmitted from the transmitting node. The method may further include providing the feedback report to the transmitting node based on the estimated channel state and the feedback restriction information. Preferably the feedback report complies with the restrictions specified in the feedback restriction information. The method may yet further include receiving transmission control information from the transmitting node.

Another non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a computer readable medium that includes therein programming instructions. When a computer executes the programming instructions the computer may execute the method performed by a receiving node of a wireless network to provide feedback to a transmitting node as described above.

Another non limiting aspect of the disclosed subject matter may be directed to a receiving node of a wireless network structured to provide a feedback report to a transmitting node. The transmitting node may include a channel estimator a feedback manager and a reception manager. The channel estimator may be structured to estimate a channel state of a communication channel between the transmitting node and the receiving node based on a reference signal transmitted from the transmitting node. The feedback manager may be structured to receive feedback restriction information from the transmitting node. The feedback restriction information may be received over a control channel which may be a physical layer control channel. The feedback manager may also be structured to provide the feedback report to the transmitting node based on the estimated channel state and the feedback restriction information. The reception manager may be structured to receive transmission control information from the transmitting node.

For purposes of explanation and not limitation specific details are set forth such as particular architectures interfaces techniques and so on. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the technology described herein may be practiced in other embodiments that depart from these specific details. That is those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the described technology.

In some instances detailed descriptions of well known devices circuits and methods are omitted so as not to obscure the description with unnecessary details. All statements herein reciting principles aspects embodiments and examples are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform same function regardless of structure.

Thus for example it will be appreciated that block diagrams herein can represent conceptual views of illustrative circuitry embodying principles of the technology. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

Functions of various elements including functional blocks labeled or described as processors or controllers may be provided through dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing associated software. When provided by a processor functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared or distributed. Moreover explicit use of term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may include without limitation digital signal processor or DSP hardware read only memory or ROM for storing software random access memory or RAM and non volatile storage.

In this document 3GPP terminologies e.g. HSDPA WCDMA LTE LTE A are used as examples for explanation purposes. Note that the technology described herein can be applied to non 3GPP standards e.g. WiMAX UMB GSM cdma2000 1xEVDO Wireless LAN WiFi etc. Thus the scope of this disclosure is not limited to the set of 3GPP wireless network systems and can encompass many domains of wireless communication systems. Also a wireless terminal will be used as an example of a receiver in which the described method can be performed. Examples of the wireless terminal include UE laptop PDA smart phone mobile terminal etc. That is the descriptions generally will focus on the downlink transmissions. However the subject matter is equally applicable to uplink transmissions. That is the disclosed subject matter is applicable to any node of the network including base stations e.g. RBS Node B eNode B eNB etc. and relay stations that receive wireless signals.

As mentioned above MIMO may be utilized to improve downlink spectral efficiency. For example in a four branch MIMO four Tx and Rx antennas can be used to enhance the spatial multiplexing gains and to offer improved beam forming capabilities. Also as indicated current HSDPA systems support one or two transmit antennas at the Node B. For these systems from channel sounding the UE measures the channel and reports the CSI in one sub frame to the Node B as feedback. Typically this report includes CQI and PCI and the UE sends this report periodically for every subframe or TTI as feedback. Recall that CQI can indicate rank.

In general the Node B has no control in the selection of the rank the precoding control and or the channel quality reported by the UE. This can be problematic in that in some instances the UE feedback information is not useful for the Node B. For example the Node B may not have power and or codes to schedule the UE with the desired rank information.

In other instances the Node B may have the capability to schedule the UEs with certain precoder elements. However no mechanism currently exists through which the Node B can notify the UE with information such as what rank information it prefers what precoder elements it does not prefer and so on.

To address at least the above mentioned problems one or more methods apparatuses and or systems are described herein in which a network node such as the Node B can indicate and or control the composition of the feedback information reported back from the UE.

To put things into context an overview of a codebook based MIMO precoding is provided. Ideal linear precoding requires full CSI at the transmitter such as Node B. This may be possible for TDD time division duplex based systems but is not practical for FDD frequency division duplex based systems. Codebook based precoding allows the receiver e.g. the UE to explicitly identify a precoding matrix or vector based on a codebook that should be used for transmission.

In 3GPP s LTE Long Term Evolution HSDPA standard separate codebooks are defined for various combinations of the number of transmit antennas and the number of transmission layers. The latter is also referred to as RI rank information . For example for four transmit antennas a total 64 precoding vectors and matrices are defined. Also in the codebook for the scenarios of RI 1 2 3 4 sixteen 16 elements per rank are defined. The 3GPP standard does not specify the criteria the UE should use to compute the RI and or the optimum precoding matrices vectors.

Once the feedback information is received from the UE the Node B decides on the rank modulation and coding transport block size and the PCI for data traffic to the UE. The Node B provides this transmission control information to the UE on HS SCCH high speed shared control channel at . After providing the transmission control information the Node B then transmits DL downlink data to the UE on HS PDSCH high speed downlink shared channel at .

In one or more aspects a transmitting node node that transmits data may control i.e. specify a feedback provided from a receiving node node that receives data . Note that a node can perform the roles of both the transmitting and the receiving node. The categorization simply reflects the direction of data transmission between any two nodes. For example in the downlink a base station e.g. Node B eNode B eNB relay station micro femto pico BS etc. may be the transmitting node and a wireless terminal UE tablet PDA cell phone etc. may be the receiving node. In the uplink the roles can be reversed. The following are some of the non limiting ways that the transmitting node may control or specify the feedback report sent from the receiving node 

For explanation purposes a DL transmission scenario involving a Node B as the transmitting node and a UE as the receiving node will be described. This is not to be taken as a limitation. Rather the disclosed concepts should be readily applicable to scenarios in which there are communications between nodes.

In an aspect the UE can be restricted report PCI and RI within a subset of the precoder codebook. The restriction can be configured through a higher layer signaling e.g. layer . As an illustration the restriction can be specified in a bitmap parameter codebookSubsetRestriction configured through RRC radio resource control layer signaling. This information can be sent through the RRC signaling during a cell setup. In this instance the Node B may use the same codebookSubsetRestriction for all UEs it serves at a given moment.

For a specific precoder codebook and associated transmission mode a bitmap can specify all possible precoder codebook subsets from which the UE can assume the Node B may be using when the UE is configured. For a 4 Tx antenna system the precoding codebook or simply codebook can contain a total of 64 elements 16 elements per rank . In this instance the bitmap can include a bit sequence a . . . a a a ain which aand aare assumed to respectively represent the MSB most significant bit and LSB least significant bit . A bit value of zero or one can be used to indicate that the feedback reporting e.g. RI PCI reporting is prohibited for precoder s associated with the bit.

It is also possible that the bitmap can specify a subset less than all possible codebook elements. As will be detailed further below the bit sequence can include a bitmap field with a length less than 64 bits.

For the four branch MIMO Part is used to provide information about the channelization code set 7 bits modulation information 5 bits and PCI 4 bits . Hence a total 16 bits is necessary to provide the complete information in Part . The rank information is implicitly informed through the modulation information bits. The UE identity is also signaled in Part through a UE specific mask applied to the Part I encoded sequence.

Part consists of 36 bits. Some of the bits are used to provide information about the transport block 6 bits HARQ process 4 bits redundancy version for the two streams 4 bits and the UE ID 16 bits . For a single stream transmission only 28 bits are necessary in Part .

To allow the UE sufficient time to decode the Part message and to configure its receiver for receiving the data traffic on the HS PDSCH the Node B transmits the control information on the HS SCCH two slots in advance of the associated HS PDSCH subframe.

Table 1 illustrates an existing structure of Part for indicating the modulation scheme. As noted above five bits are used. Also as noted above and as seen in Table 1 the rank information is implicit.

In the existing structure out of the 32 possible modulation information patterns two of them are currently unused. Thus in one aspect at least one of the unused patterns can be used to convey that there is a restriction on the feedback information e.g. inform the UE about the codebook subset restriction. Table 2 illustrates an example of this proposal.

In this example when the Node B provides the bit pattern 11110 on the five bits corresponding to the modulation information of Part this informs the UE that there is a restriction on the codebook for feedback purposes. While the example proposes to utilize currently unused modulation information bit patterns this should not be taken to be limiting. If there are unused patterns corresponding to the CCS channelization code set or to the PCI any of these unused patterns may be utilized.

Recall that in the case of the four branch MIMO the codebook can contain 16 codebook elements per rank for a total of 64 elements. Then to implement the full codebookSubsetRestriction bitmap pattern for the four branch MIMO a total of 64 bits are needed. However the existing HS SCCH does not contain 64 bits. Thus in one aspect the codebookSubsetRestriction can be implemented for each rank as illustrated in .

According to Table 2 the pattern 11110 in the modulation information bits can be used to indicate the codebook subset restriction and the next 18 bits can be used indicates the specifics of the restriction. Among these 2 bits can be used to indicate the rank and the remaining 16 bits can be used as a bitmap corresponding to the codebook elements of that particular rank.

Note that in this instance the seven bits of the CCS are not necessarily used when the restriction pattern e.g. 11110 is indicated. Thus in an alternative some or all of the CCS bits may be used to for the RI bits and or the codebook element bitmap bits when the restriction pattern is indicated.

In another aspect instead of implementing the codebookSubsetRestriction for each rank it can be implemented for multiple ranks at a time. As indicated above the existing HS SCCH may not be sufficient to implement the full 64 bit codebookSubsetRestriction. However it may have sufficient space to implement the codebookSubsetRestriction for two ranks. This is illustrated in .

In 33 bits following the restriction pattern 11110 can be used to indicate the specifics. The RG restriction grouping field in this instance can be one bit followed by a 32 bit long bitmap field. An RG bit value of zero or one may indicate that the bitmap field corresponds to the elements of ranks and or ranks and .

Generally when restriction is indicated e.g. through the modulation information indicating the restriction pattern sufficient number of bits should be provided to indicate the particular restriction grouping and for the bitmap corresponding to the codebook elements of the grouping. The RI field in can be considered to be a particular form of restriction grouping.

While not shown it is possible for the grouping to be smaller than the number of elements of a rank. For example for the four branch MIMO the RG field can be three bits long and the bitmap field can be eight bits long. In this instance the RG field sequence 010 and 011 can indicate that the bitmap field respectively corresponds to the first and second eight codebook elements of rank . Such division can allow the Node B to finely control the granularity of the feedback information from the UE.

This can be advantageous in the following way. As indicated above the bits of the CCS field are not necessarily used to indicate the channelization code set when the restriction pattern is indicated. In this instance the seven bits of the CCS field and the four bits of the PCI field is sufficient to indicate the restriction grouping three bits and the bitmap eight bits . In this way the boundary between Part and Part can be maintained even when the restriction pattern is indicated.

Currently HS SCCH orders exist in HSPA as a fast L L control signaling to complement higher layer e.g. RRC signaling. By using a special format of the HS SCCH it is possible to convey orders to a UE without having to resort to the slower higher layer signaling. Currently there are orders specified for activation and deactivation or triggering of the following features 

In an aspect the Node B may provide information about the codebookSubsetRestriction using the HS SCCH orders e.g. for each rank for multiple ranks for parts of a rank and so on.

For downlink transmission the transmitting node may be a network node and the receiving node may be the wireless terminal. For example step may be performed by a Node B or more generally by a base station. However this is merely an example. Any network node that provides services to the UEs or generally wireless terminals may perform the step. Also the network node need not directly communicate wirelessly with the UEs. For example a network node such as RNC radio network controller that coordinates actions of one or more base stations may perform the step.

The transmitting node can be implemented strictly in hardware. Alternatively the transmitting node may be implemented as a hardware software combination. In this alternative at least one device may implemented strictly in hardware or in a hardware and software combination. Each of the other devices may be purely software or a hardware and software combination such that on the whole the transmitting node is a hardware and software combination.

For example as illustrated in the transmitting node may include one or more hardware processors hardware storage internal external or both and one or both of a hardware network interface and a hardware wireless interface . The processor s may be structured to execute program instructions to perform the functions of one or more of the network node devices. The instructions may be stored in a non transitory storage medium or in firmware e.g. ROM RAM Flash denoted as storage . Note that the program instructions may also be received through wired and or or wireless transitory medium via one or both of the network and wireless interfaces . The network interface may be structured to perform wired and or wireless communications with other network nodes. The wireless interface e.g. a transceiver may be structured to perform wireless communications with other radio nodes via one or more antennas .

Referring back to the transmitting node may perform the following steps to provide transmission control information to the receiving node . Transmission control information may specify one or more transmission characteristics that will be applied by the transmitting node when the transmitting node transmits data to the receiving node . In step the feedback manager may provide feedback restriction information to the receiving node . The feedback restriction information can specify restrictions on a feedback report to be provided from the receiving node.

In one aspect the feedback restriction information may include one or more feedback restriction fields and each corresponding feedback restriction value may specify restriction on one or more feedback parameters of the feedback report. For example the feedback restriction information may include a precoding restriction field comprising one or more precode restriction bits. The bit pattern of the precoding restriction bits may make up the corresponding precoding restriction value. Each precode restriction bit may correspond to one of the plural precoding vectors. For each precoding restriction bit a first bit value 0 or 1 may specify that reporting associated with the corresponding precoding vector is allowed and a second bit value other of 0 or 1 may specify that reporting associated with the corresponding precoding vector is not allowed. The bit sequence a . . . a a a aof the bitmap parameter in the codebookSubsetRestriction described may be an example of the precoding restriction field.

The feedback manager may provide the feedback restriction fields to the receiving node in step . In one aspect the feedback manager may use a higher layer signaling such as RRC layer signaling to provide the feedback restriction fields. But in another aspect the feedback manager may provide the feedback restriction fields over a control channel. For fast responses it is preferred that the control channel be a physical layer channel such as HS SCCH.

In one aspect a length of precoding restriction field may be sufficient to specify restrictions for all precoding vectors. For example in the four branch MIMO the bit sequence may be 64 bits long. But in another aspect the length of the precoding restriction field can be less than the total number of precoding vectors.

When using the control channel to provide the feedback restriction information it may be advantageous to have shorter lengths for one or more feedback restriction fields. This enables the feedback restrictions to be specified within the structure of the control channel such as the HS SCCH.

In one embodiment all feedback restriction fields may be provided in one subframe of the control channel. For example recall that illustrates a control channel subframe e.g. HS SCCH subframe . Also recall that the bit pattern 11110 in the 5 bits of MOD indicates that the HS SCCH channel is carrying feedback restriction and the next 18 bits carry the specifics of the restriction namely two bits for RI and 16 bits for the codebookSubsetRestriction. In the example the sum of lengths of all three fields the MOD RI and codebookSubsetRestriction is less than the length of one HS SCCH subframe. Thus all three fields may be provided in one HS SCCH subframe. Of course providing the feedback restriction fields over more than one subframe is contemplated.

As indicated the feedback report from the receiving node typically includes a preferred rank and a preferred PCI. So that the reported The transmitting node may wish to specify restrictions on these feedback parameters. Thus the feedback restriction fields may include a rank restriction field in addition to the precoding restriction field. The corresponding rank restriction value carried in the rank restriction field may be one of a restricted rank value a restricted rank group value or a restricted rank subgroup value.

When the rank restriction value is a restricted rank value it identifies an individual rank. For example for the four branch MIMO each of the four possible rank transmission can be individually identified with two bits. The restricted rank value may indicate that the precoding restriction field specifies restrictions on the precoding vectors of the identified rank. In other words the restricted rank value may indicate that each precoding restriction bit of the precoding restriction field corresponds to one of the precoding vectors of the identified rank. As an illustration in when the two bits of the RI field rank restriction field is 00 restricted rank value this can indicate to the receiving node that the each of the 16 bits of the codebookSubset field precoding restriction field corresponds to one of the precoder vectors of rank . Note that is an example in which restrictions on feedback related to all precoder vectors also referred to as precoder elements of one rank can be specified in one control channel subframe.

When the rank restriction value is a restricted rank group value it identifies a group of plural ranks. For example for the four branch MIMO the rank restriction field may be one bit long and the bit value may be used to identify a lower rank group ranks and or a higher rank group ranks and . The restricted rank group value may indicate that the precoding restriction field specifies restrictions on the precoding vectors of the identified ranks. In for example the RG bit value restricted rank group value determines whether the 32 bit long codebookSubset field corresponds to precoding vectors of ranks and or to precoding vectors of ranks and . is also an example in which restrictions on feedback related to all precoder elements of multiple ranks can be specified in one control channel subframe. The multiple ranks may or may not be all ranks.

When the rank restriction value is a restricted rank subgroup value it not only identifies a rank but also identifies a portion of that rank. For example for the four branch MIMO the rank restriction field may be three bits or longer. For example a three bit rank restriction field can indicate that the precoding restriction field specifies restrictions on the first eight or second eight precoding vectors of the identified rank.

It is thus seen that the granularity of the feedback reporting can be finely tuned through the rank restriction field. It is also seen that the length of the rank restriction field may be inversely correlated with the length of the precoding restriction field.

In one embodiment a specific value inserted in a specific portion of the control channel subframe may be used to alert the receiving node that the feedback restriction information is being provided. In this embodiment the feedback restriction fields may further include a feedback restriction indication field which may be in addition to one or both of the rank restriction field and the precoding restriction field. When a valid feedback restriction indication value is carried in the feedback restriction indication field it can indicate to the receiving node that the control channel subframe is carrying the feedback restriction information. In the 5 bit long MOD field is an example of the feedback restriction indication field and the pattern 11110 is an example of a valid feedback restriction indication value. In these Figures the MOD field occupies a 5 bit long portion of the HS SCCH subframe starting from the 8bit position.

It can then be said that in an embodiment the feedback manager inserts the valid feedback restriction indication value into a specific portion of the control channel subframe as part of providing the feedback restriction fields in step . The receiving node then can determine that the feedback restriction information is being provided based on the value carried in the specification portion of the subframe. The length of the feedback restriction indication field can be predetermined e.g. 5 bits .

Alternatively a control channel order e.g. HS SCCH order may be used to notify the receiving node . That is the feedback manager may provide the feedback restriction information in the control channel order in step .

Referring back to in step the transmitting node may transmit a reference signal for sounding purposes. For example the transmitting node may transmit pilot symbols on a pilot channel such as on a CPICH. This enables the receiving node to perform channel estimation.

In step the feedback manager may receive the feedback report from the receiving node . In one aspect the feedback report may be received over a feedback channel e.g. HS DPCCH . The feedback report may include one or more feedback parameters. Each feedback parameter may indicate a channel characteristic of a wireless channel between the transmitting and the receiving nodes or may indicate a transmission characteristic preferred by the receiving node of data transmission from the transmitting node to the receiving node .

For example the feedback parameters may include a rank parameter and a precoding parameter. The rank parameter may indicate a rank of data transmission preferred by the receiving node . Also the precoding parameter may indicate a precoding vector preferred by the receiving node to be applied to the data transmission from the transmitting node to the receiving node . The preferred precoding vector may be one of one or more precoding vectors. In one aspect the feedback restriction information provided to the receiving node in step may include restrictions on one or both of rank parameter values e.g. through the rank restriction field and precoding parameter values e.g. through the precoding restriction field .

In step the transmission manager may provide the transmission control information to the receiving node based on the feedback parameters. In one aspect the transmission control information may include one or more transmission control fields. For each transmission control field a corresponding transmission control value may specify a transmission characteristic that will be applied by the transmitting node in transmitting data to the receiving node. For example the transmission control information may include a code channel set field a modulation field a rank field a UE identity field and so on. Generally it can be said that the transmission control information may specify one or more transmission characteristics that will be applied by the transmitting node in transmitting data to the receiving node .

In one embodiment the transmission manager may provide the transmission control fields to the receiving node over a control channel e.g. HS SCCH in step . In an embodiment a recognized value inserted in a specific portion of the control channel subframe may be used to alert the receiving node that the transmission control information is being provided. In this embodiment the transmission control fields may include a transmission control indication field. When a valid transmission control indication value is carried in this field it can indicate to the receiving node that the control channel subframe is carrying the transmission control information. In the 5 bit long MOD field may also serve as the transmission control indication field and any of the patterns ranging between 00000 and 11101 may be recognized as being a valid transmission control indication value.

It can then be said that in an embodiment the transmission manager may insert the valid transmission control indication value into a specific portion of the control channel subframe as part of providing the transmission control fields in step . The receiving node then can determine that the transmission control information is being provided based on the value carried in the specification portion of the subframe.

In it is seen that the MOD field serves double duty of sorts. A valid MOD value indicates that the HS SCCH channel subframe is carrying the transmission control information. In addition it also specifies transmission characteristics that will be applied when the transmitting node transmitting data.

The control channel that the transmission manager uses in step to provide the transmission control information may be the same control channel used by the feedback manager in step to provide the feedback restriction information. Fore example HS SCCH may be used in both steps. In this instance the same specific portion of the control channel subframe may be used in both steps. This implies that the feedback restriction indication field and the transmission control indication field are the same predetermined length and both occupy the same specific portion of the control channel subframe.

This also implies that the valid feedback restriction indication values and the valid transmission control indication values should not overlap. In the bit pattern 11110 which does not overlap with any of the valid MOD bit patterns from 00000 to 11101 is used to indicate presence of feedback restriction information. Of course the pattern 11111 may also be used.

In general there can be any number of valid feedback restriction indication values and also any number of valid transmission control indication values. Then to ensure that there is no overlap it should be that a number of valid transmission control indication values a number of valid feedback restriction indication values should be less than a number of values that can be represented in the predetermined length. This makes it possible to ensure that the valid feedback restriction value is not any of the valid transmission control values and vice versa.

Referring back to in step the transmitting node may transmit data to the receiving node based on the transmission characteristics as specified in the transmission control information.

The receiving node can be implemented strictly in hardware. Alternatively the receiving node may be implemented as a hardware software combination. In this alternative at least one device may implemented strictly in hardware or in a hardware and software combination. Each of the other devices may be purely software or a hardware and software combination such that on the whole the receiving node is a hardware and software combination.

For example as illustrated in the receiving node may include one or more hardware processors hardware storage internal external or both and one or both of a hardware network interface and a hardware wireless interface . The processor s may be structured to execute program instructions to perform the functions of one or more of the network node devices. The instructions may be stored in a non transitory storage medium or in firmware e.g. ROM RAM Flash denoted as storage . Note that the program instructions may also be received through wired and or or wireless transitory medium via one or both of the network and wireless interfaces . The network interface may be structured to perform wired and or wireless communications with other network nodes. The wireless interface e.g. a transceiver may be structured to perform wireless communications with other radio nodes via one or more antennas .

The receiving node may perform the method illustrated in to receive the data transmitted from the transmitting node . In step the feedback manager may receive the feedback restriction information from the transmitting node . The feedback restriction information may be received through RRC signaling over a control channel or through a control channel order. The details have been described and thus will not be repeated for sake of brevity.

In step the channel estimator may estimate a channel state of a communication channel between the transmitting node and the receiving node based on a reference signal transmitted from the transmitting node .

In step the feedback manager may provide the feedback report e.g. over a feedback channel to the transmitting node based on the estimated channel state and also based on the feedback restriction information. That is the feedback report will be in compliance with the feedback restriction information. For example when the feedback restriction information includes a rank restriction the reported rank parameter value will comply with the rank restriction. When the feedback restriction information includes a precoding restriction the reported precoding parameter value will comply with the precoding restriction.

In step the reception manager may receive transmission control parameters from the transmitting node . The transmission control parameters maybe received over a control channel. In one aspect this may be the same control channel over which the feedback manager received the feedback restriction information in step .

Recall that in the discussion regarding the transmitting node the feedback restriction indication field part of feedback restriction information and the transmission control indication field part of transmission control information occupy the same specific portion of the control channel subframe. Thus in one embodiment in which the transmitting node uses the same control channel to provide the feedback restriction information and the transmission control information the value carried in the specific portion of the control channel subframe will alert the receiving node whether the control channel is carrying the feedback restriction information or the transmission control information.

Referring back to in step after configuring the communicator for data reception based on the transmission control information the reception manager may receive the transmitted data from the transmitting node .

There are many advantages associated with one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. A non exhaustive list of advantages include 

Although the description above contains many specificities these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosed subject matter but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments. Therefore it will be appreciated that the scope of the disclosed subject matter fully encompasses other embodiments and that the scope is accordingly not to be limited. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described preferred embodiment that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed hereby. Moreover it is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem described herein or sought to be solved by the present technology for it to be encompassed hereby.

