---

title: Methods for identifying an increased risk of anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity
abstract: Methods of identifying a subject having an increased risk of developing anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity are provided. Such methods may include isolating a DNA sample from a biological specimen from the subject; genotyping the DNA sample to determine a copy number of a variant allele that increases the risk of developing chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity; and identifying the subject as having an increased risk of developing anthracycline-related cardiotoxicity when the copy number is at least one. In some embodiments, the methods may include optimally administering a therapeutically effective dose of a chemotherapy agent or an alternative non-cardiotoxic chemotherapeutic agent to the subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09650678&OS=09650678&RS=09650678
owner: CITY OF HOPE
number: 09650678
owner_city: Duarte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131209
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 734 778 filed Dec. 7 2012 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention was made with government support under Grant No. U01 GM073646 awarded by the NIH NIGMS Pharmacogenomics Research Network and Grant No. U10 CA98543 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Anthracyclines are one of the most effective classes of drugs currently available for cancer diagnosed across the entire age spectrum. However the therapeutic potential of anthracyclines is limited because of their strong dose dependent relation with progressive and irreversible cardiomyopathy leading to congestive heart failure Blanco et al. 2012 Grenier et al. 1998 Barry et al. 2008 . This dose dependent risk is modified by younger age at anthracycline exposure chest radiation and co existence of cardiovascular disease risk factors such as hypertension and diabetes Puma et al. 2008 Armenian et al. 2011 . However a significant inter individual variability exists cumulative anthracycline exposure as low as 150 mg mresults in cardiomyopathy in some patients while exposure as high as 1000 mg mis tolerated without cardiomyopathy by others Bryant et al. 2007 .

Thus it would be beneficial to determine the reasons for the observed inter individual variability and develop an optimal anthracycline dosage regimen for cancer patients based on the risk of developing cardiotoxicity from the effects of these drugs.

In one embodiment methods of identifying a subject for example a cancer patient having an increased risk of developing anthracycline related cardiotoxicity are provided. Such methods may include isolating a DNA sample from a biological specimen from the subject genotyping the DNA sample to determine a copy number of a variant allele that increases the risk of developing chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity and identifying the subject as having an increased risk of developing anthracycline related cardiotoxicity when the copy number is at least one.

In some embodiments the methods may include optimally administering a therapeutically effective dose of a chemotherapy agent or an alternative non cardiotoxic chemotherapeutic agent to the subject. The optimal administration of the chemotherapy agent prevents or minimizes the agent s toxic effects yet does not compromise its ability to effectively treat primary cancer. In some aspects the variant allele comprises a single nucleotide polymorphism SNP . The SNP may be part of an HAS3 or a CBR gene for example rs2232228 G A or CBR3V244M. In some aspects the chemotherapy agent is an anthracycline. In other aspects the chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity prevented is cardiomyopathy or congestive heart failure CHF .

Methods of identifying a subject e.g. cancer patients having an increased risk of developing anthracycline related cardiotoxicity and methods for preventing or reducing said risk as a result of treating a cancer patient with a chemotherapeutic agent are provided herein. Such methods are based on identifying the subject s genotype or the number of copies of a variant allele carried by the subject.

According to certain embodiments described herein a method of identifying a subject having an increased risk of developing anthracycline related cardiotoxicity may include isolating a DNA sample from a biological specimen from the subject using a suitable method known in the art and genotyping the DNA sample.

The genotype may be determined based on the number of copies of a variant allele carried by a cancer patient. A subject is determined to have an increased risk of developing anthracycline related cardiotoxicity when the copy number is at least one. The method may optionally include administering a chemotherapeutic agent based on the patient s genotype.

The methods described herein may also be used to prevent or reduce the risk of any type of acute or delayed cardiotoxic events that are common to patients treated with chemotherapeutic agents including but not limited to myocarditis and cardiomyopathy which is indicated by a reduction in left ventricular ejection fraction LVEF signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure e.g. tachycardia dyspnea pulmonary edema dependent edema cardiomegaly hepatomegaly oliguria ascites pleural effusion and arrhythmias .

Chemotherapeutic agents that may cause cardiotoxic events may include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics e.g. Anthracyclines topoisomerase inhibitors mitotic inhibitors hormone therapy targeted therapeutics and immunotherapeutics. In certain embodiments anthracyclines may be responsible for causing cardiomyopathy and other cardiotoxic events when administered as a cancer therapy and may be optimally administered alone or in combination with one or more additional chemotherapeutic agents according to the embodiments described herein. Examples of anthracyclines that may be administered according to the embodiments described herein include but are not limited to doxorubicin daunomycin epirubicin mitoxantrone valrubicin and idarubicin. A strong dose dependent association between anthracyclines and cardiomyopathy limits the therapeutic potential of this effective class of therapeutic agents suggesting that identification of those at highest risk is important so that anthracycline exposure may be tailored to maximize the efficacy of these drugs.

The methods described herein may be used to prevent cardiotoxicity during the treatment of any type of cancer including but not limited to bone cancer bladder cancer brain cancer neuroblastoma breast cancer cancer of the urinary tract carcinoma cervical cancer childhood cancers e.g. astrocytoma brain stem glioma NCS atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor CNS embryonal tumor CNS Germ Cell tumors craniopharyngioma ependymoma kidney tumors acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myeloid leukemia and other types of leukemia Hodgkin lymphoma non Hodgkin lymphoma Ewing sarcoma osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the bone rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcoma and Wilms tumor colon cancer esophageal cancer gastric cancer head and neck cancer hepatocellular cancer liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma and leukemia melanoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer pituitary cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cancer sarcoma stomach cancer testicular cancer thyroid cancer uterine cancer.

In some embodiments the methods described herein may include a step of determining the genotype genotyping e.g. heterozygous for an allele XA or XG or homozygous for an allele AA or GG of an isolated DNA sample to determine the number of copies or a copy number of a variant allele that increases a cancer patient s risk of developing chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity. The copy number may be determined by any suitable whole genome or locus specific method known in the art including but not limited to microarray methods SNP array methods fluorescence in situ hybridization FISH restriction fragment length polymorphism RFLP followed by Southern blot quantitative real time PCR locus specific PCR multiplex ligation dependent probe amplification MLPA competitive fluorescent multiplex STRP assay CFMSA pyrosequencing ligation detection reaction and the invader assay. Such methods may also be used to screen for any variant alleles that are associated with chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity.

The copy number may be determined using a DNA sample obtained from a cancer patient. The DNA sample may be derived from any biological specimen containing DNA including but not limited to any material biological fluid tissue or cell obtained or otherwise derived from the cancer patient including but not limited to blood including whole blood leukocytes peripheral blood mononuclear cells buffy coat and saliva. This also includes experimentally separated fractions of all of the preceding. For example a blood sample can be fractionated into fractions containing particular types of blood cells such as red blood cells or white blood cells leukocytes . If desired a sample may be a combination of samples from an individual such as a combination of a tissue and fluid sample. A biological specimen may also include materials containing homogenized solid material such as from a stool sample a tissue sample or a tissue biopsy or materials derived from a tissue culture or a cell culture.

As discussed above there is significant inter individual variability related to the development of chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity. The Examples described below investigate the reason s for this observed inter individual variability by identifying single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs that might modify the association between anthracycline exposure and risk of cardiotoxicity. The ITMAT Broad CARe IBC cardiovascular SNP array was used that profiles SNPs in 2100 genes considered relevant for cardiovascular disease in the general population Keating et al. 2008 . A 2 stage design was used that included a discovery and a replication stage. In the discovery stage both the main effects of SNPs as well as gene environment anthracycline interactions were examined. SNPs surpassing a pre specified threshold for statistical significance were validated in the replication stage using an independent set of cases with anthracycline related cardiomyopathy.

Thus in some embodiments the allele may include a mutation deletion or single nucleotide polymorphism SNP . In some embodiments the SNP is part of a gene associated with cardiotherapeutic agent metabolism or cardiovascular conditions or diseases including but not limited to genes in the HAS or CBR families. For example the SNP may be an A allele on SNP rs2232228 rs2232228 G A or CBR3 V244M which are described further below.

In some embodiments the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects is part of a gene associated with cardiovascular condition or disease. In one embodiment the variant allele is part of the family of hyaluronan synthase genes e.g. HAS3 including but not limited to a variant allele that includes an SNP such as rs2232228. The HAS3 gene located on chromosome 16 encodes for an enzyme that produces hyaluronan HA . HA is a ubiquitous component of extracellular matrix ECM Spicer et al. 2004 and plays a dynamic role in organization of ECM following injury or inflammation by providing a matrix to support cellular migration and adhesion Spicer et al. 2004 Jiang et al. 2005 Laurent et al. 1992 Knudson et al. 1993 Toole et al. 1990 West et al. 1985 Zhang et al. 2000 . HA is especially enriched in matrices undergoing remodeling. HAS3 has been implicated in organ dysfunction such as ventilator related lung injury Jacobson et al. 2000 McKee et al. 1996 Noble et al. 1996 Bourguignon et al. 2011 Bai et al. 2005 and phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor reduces inflammatory effects by directly inhibiting HAS3 expression Mrabat et al. 2009 .

In the myocardium ECM provides a scaffold for alignment of myocytes fibroblasts endothelial cells and vasculature Gorda et al. 2000 . In myocardial infarction with consequent apoptosis of myocytes cardiac fibroblasts serve as a central mediator of cardiac remodeling using the ECM as a scaffold Burlew et al. 2000 . HA accumulates after myocardial infarction in rats Waldenstrom et al. 1991 and HA synthesis is part of the extensive remodeling seen in cardiac hypertrophy Hellman et al. 2008 . Anthracyclines injure heart muscle through induction of apoptosis in myocytes which is then followed by replacement fibrosis Perik et al. 2005 . Anthracycline related cardiotoxicity is directly linked to the amount of anthracyclines in the heart Meissner et al. 2002 Begg et al. 1994 . ECM is likely involved in cardiac remodeling from inflammation to fibrosis after anthracycline related injury the extent of remodeling and repair is possibly modulated by variability in HA production in the ECM consistent with the genotype dependent cardiomyopathy risk observed in the current study. Thus high dose anthracyclines likely trigger differential expression HA synthesis based on the genotype of rs2232228 influencing cardiac remodeling.

As described in the Examples below a two stage design was used to determine host susceptibility to anthracycline related cardiomyopathy. The ITMAT Broad CARe cardiovascular SNP array was used to profile common single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs in 2100 genes considered most relevant to de novo cardiovascular disease. In this matched case control design 93 cases 194 controls a common SNP rs2232228 was identified in the hyaluronan synthase HAS3 gene that exerts a substantial modifying effect on anthracycline dose dependent risk of cardiomyopathy. Among individuals with rs2232228 GG genotype cumulative anthracycline exposure was not associated with cardiomypathy risk at any dose. On the other hand in individuals with AA genotype cardiomypathy risk increased substantially with increasing anthracycline exposure individuals exposed to high dose 250 mg m anthracyclines the presence of rs2232228 AA genotypes were at 8.5 fold 95 Cl 2.0 35.6 p 0.004 increased cardiomyopathy risk compared with GG genotype. The gene environment interaction between SNP rs2232228 and high dose anthracycline exposure was replicated in an independent set of 76 patients with anthracycline related cardiomyopathy. The significant modifying effect of HAS3 genotype on the dose dependent association between anthracycline and cardiomyopathy risk suggests that genotyping HAS3 may help to tailor anthracycline exposure to maximize benefit.

In other embodiments the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects is part of a gene involved with anthracycline metabolism. The main route for anthracycline metabolism is a two electron reduction of the C 13 carbonyl group in the anthracycline side chain resulting in the formation of alcohol metabolites erg doxorubicinol daunorubicinol Mordente et al. 2009 Minotti et al. 2004 . Development of cardiomyopathy correlates with myocardial accumulation of anthracycline alcohol metabolites Mushlin et al. 1993 Stewart et al. 1993 . Variability in the formation of these metabolites could influence the risk of cardiomyopathy Mordente et al. 2009 . Synthesis of cardiotoxic alcohol metabolites is catalyzed by myocardial cytosolic carbonyl reductases CBRs Mordente et al. 2009 Kalabus et al. 2010 . In humans two monomeric CBRs CBR1 and CBR3 are encoded for by genes located on chromosome 21. Single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs in the 3 untranslated regions of CBR1 where nucleotide 1096 a guanine G is replaced by adenine A CBR1 1096G A and in CBR3 where amino acid 244 a valine V is replaced by methionine M CBR3V244M impacts catalytic activity for anthracycline substrates Bains et al. 2010 Gonzalez Covarrubias et al. 2009 Lakhman et al. 2005 . The goal of the current study was to understand the contribution of functional polymorphisms in CBR1 and CBR3 to the dose dependent risk of anthracycline related cardiomyopathy in survivors of childhood cancer.

As described in detail in Example 1 below one hundred seventy survivors with cardiomyopathy patient cases were compared with 317 survivors with no cardiomyopathy controls matched on cancer diagnosis year of diagnosis length of follow up and race ethnicity using conditional logistic regression techniques. A dose dependent association was observed between cumulative anthracycline exposure and cardiomyopathy risk 0 mg m reference 1 to 100 mg m odds ratio OR 1.65 101 to 150 mg m OR 3.85 151 to 200 mg m OR 3.69 201 to 250 mg m OR 7.23 251 to 300 mg m OR 23.47 300 mg m2 OR 27.59 P250 mg m2 were associated with increased cardiomyopathy risk irrespective of CBR genotype status.

This study demonstrated that an increased anthracycline related cardiomyopathy risk exists at doses as low as 101 to 150 mg m. Homozygosis for G allele in CBR3 contributes to increased cardiomyopathy risk associated with low to moderate dose anthracyclines such that there seems to be no safe dose for patients homozygous for the CBR3 V244M G allele. These results along with those regarding the rs2232228 G A allele within HAS3 suggest a need for targeted intervention for those at increased risk of cardiomyopathy.

Thus according to some embodiments the methods described herein may include a step of optimally administering a therapeutically effective dose of a chemotherapeutic agent based on a cancer patient s genotype. The genotype may be measured as a copy number as determined above. The optimal administration addresses the need for targeted intervention for patients with an increased risk of cardiotoxicity who are also receiving a chemotherapeutic treatment. Alternatively in some embodiments where a patient has been identified as having in increased risk of anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity the methods may include a step of administering a non cardiotoxic chemotherapeutic cardioprotective agent or treatment in lieu of an anthracycline or other chemotherapeutic agent that may cause cardiotoxic events. Non cardiotoxic chemotherapeutics cardioprotective agents or treatments that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein may include those described below.

Cancer patients are typically administered a maximum safe dosage of a particular cancer treatment or combination treatment including chemotherapeutics and targeted cancer therapies. A maximum safe dosage maximum tolerated dosage or maximum recommended therapeutic dosage is the highest amount of a therapeutic agent that can be given that minimizes complications or side effects to a patient while maintaining its efficacy as a treatment. Such a dose can be adjusted to consider the patient s overall heath and any extenuating factors that could hamper the patient s recovery. Due to the severity and potential lethal outcome of the cancer being treated a maximum safe dosage tolerated in cancer treatment may be an amount that causes considerable and severe side effects including cardiotoxic effects. In some embodiments the maximum safe dosage is represented by a cumulative dose of the therapeutic agent which is the total amount of the therapeutic agent given to a patient over the course of treatment. For example anthracyclines such as doxorubicin are typically administered at a dosage of 60 75 mg mevery three to four weeks when administered as a single agent and 25 60 mg mevery three to four weeks when administered in combination with one or more additional chemotherapeutic agents. However according to the package insert for doxorubicin hydrochloride injection Teva Parenteral Medicines Inc. the risk of developing cardiotoxicity that manifests as potentially fatal congestive heart failure CHF increases rapidly with increasing total cumulative doses of doxorubicin in excess of 400 mg m. Thus in some embodiments the maximum safe dosage may be approximately 400 500 mg mor any suitable dosage greater than 400 mg m based on factors related to each individual patient s disease state.

A therapeutically effective amount optimally effective amount effective amount effective dose or the like is an amount of a therapeutic agent that produces a desired therapeutic effect in a subject such as preventing or treating a target condition or alleviating symptoms associated with the condition. The precise therapeutically effective amount is an amount of the composition that will yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy of treatment in a given subject. This amount will vary depending upon a variety of factors including but not limited to the characteristics of the therapeutic compound including activity pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics and bioavailability the physiological condition of the subject including age sex disease type and stage general physical condition responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication the nature of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or carriers in the formulation and the route of administration. One skilled in the clinical and pharmacological arts will be able to determine a therapeutically effective amount through routine experimentation namely by monitoring a subject s response to administration of a compound and adjusting the dosage accordingly. For additional guidance see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 21Edition Univ. of Sciences in Philadelphia USIP Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2005

In some embodiments a therapeutically effective dose of a particular agent may be a cumulative dosage that is the same as or lower than a maximum effective dose. A therapeutically effective dose for a particular agent used in accordance with the embodiments described herein may be a low cumulative dose or a low dose ranging from about 1 150 mg m a moderate cumulative dose or a moderate dose ranging from about 151 250 mg m a low to moderate cumulative dose or a low to moderate dose that is less than 250 mg mor ranging from about 1 250 mg m or a high cumulative dose or a high dose which includes doses greater than 250 mg m. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective dose may be a cumulative dose that is approximately 1 100 mg m approximately 101 150 mg m approximately 151 200 mg m approximately 201 250 mg m approximately 251 300 mg m approximately 301 350 mg m approximately 351 400 mg m approximately 401 500 mg m less than approximately 250 mg m over approximately 250 mg m or any suitable dosage greater than 400 mg m based on factors related to each individual patient s disease state.

Each individual patient s dosage may be tailored to the patient s needs based on their genotype or copy number. In some embodiments the therapeutically effective dose that is administered to a cancer patient includes a low to moderate cumulative dose of a chemotherapeutic agent e.g. anthracycline when the patient carries at least one copy of the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects e.g. rs2232228 G A or CBR3 V244M . In some aspects the low to moderate cumulative dose is less than 250 mg mor between approximately 1 250 mg mwhen the patient carries at least one copy of the variant allele. In such embodiments the patient may be heterozygous carries one copy of the variant allele or homozygous carries two copies of the variant allele for the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects.

In other embodiments the therapeutically effective dose that is administered to a cancer patient includes a low cumulative dose of a chemotherapeutic agent e.g. anthracycline when the patient carries two copies of the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects e.g. rs2232228 G A or CBR3 V244M . In some aspects the low cumulative dose is less than 150 mg mor between approximately 1 100 mg m between approximately 101 150 mg m or between approximately 1 150 mg mwhen the patient carries two copies of the variant allele. In such embodiments the patient is homozygous carries two copies of the variant allele for the variant allele that increases the risk of developing cardiotoxic effects.

The therapeutically effective dose may include one or more doses of the chemotherapeutic agent e.g. anthracycline administered at regular intervals. Standard chemotherapy is typically administered by an intravenous infusion once every three to four weeks i.e. intervals of approximately 21 28 days but may be administered at any suitable interval that results in effective treatment of a malignancy.

In some embodiments the optimal therapeutically effective dose of the chemotherapeutic agent may be administered in combination with one or more additional chemotherapeutic or cardioprotective agents or treatments or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic regimens known in the field of oncology. In combination or in combination with as used herein means in the course of treating the same disease in the same patient using two or more agents drugs treatment regimens treatment modalities or a combination thereof in any order. This includes simultaneous administration as well as in a temporally spaced order of up to several days apart. Such combination treatment may also include more than a single administration of any one or more of the agents drugs treatment regimens or treatment modalities. Further the administration of the two or more agents drugs treatment regimens treatment modalities or a combination thereof may be by the same or different routes of administration.

Examples of cardioprotective agents or treatments that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein include but are not limited to cardioprotective drugs e.g. dexrazoxane ACE inhibitors diuretics cardiac glycosides cholesterol lowering drugs revascularization drugs anti inflammatory drugs cardioprotective diets cardioprotective nutrients cardioprotective herbs cardioprotective vitamins e.g. folic acid B vitamin family and cardioprotective hormone treatments.

Examples of targeted therapies that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein include but are not limited to selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs e.g. tamoxifen toremifene and fulvestrant aromatase inhibitors anastrozole exemestane and letrozole kinase inhibitors imatinib mesulate dasatinib nilotinib lapatinib gefitinib erlotinib temsirolimus and everolimus growth factor receptor inhibitors e.g. Trastuzumab cetuximab and panitumumab regulators of gene expression vorinostat romidepsin bexarotene alitretinoin and tretinoin apoptosis inducers bortezomib and pralatrezate angiogenesis inhibitors bevacizumab sorafenib sunitinib and pazopanib antibodies that trigger a specific immune response by binding a cell surface protein on lymphocytes rituximab alemtuzumab and ofatumumab antibodies or other molecules that deliver toxic molecules specifically to cancer cells tositumomab ibritumomab tiuxetan denileukin diftitox cancer vaccines and gene therapy.

Examples of additional chemotherapeutic agents that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein include but are not limited to 13 cis Retinoic Acid 2 Chlorodeoxyadenosine 5 Azacitidine 5 Fluorouracil 6 Mercaptopurine 6 Thioguanine actinomycin D adriamycin aldesleukin alemtuzumab alitretinoin all transretinoic acid alpha interferon altretamine amethopterin amifostine anagrelide anastrozole arabinosylcytosine arsenic trioxide amsacrine aminocamptothecin aminoglutethimide asparaginase azacytidine bacillus calmette guerin BCG bendamustine bevacizumab bexarotene bicalutamide bortezomib bleomycin busulfan calcium leucovorin citrovorum factor capecitabine canertinib carboplatin carmustine cetuximab chlorambucil cisplatin cladribine cortisone cyclophosphamide cytarabine darbepoetin alfa dasatinib daunomycin decitabine denileukin diftitox dexamethasone dexasone dexrazoxane dactinomycin daunorubicin decarbazine docetaxel doxorubicin doxifluridine eniluracil epirubicin epoetin alfa erlotinib everolimus exemestane estramustine etoposide filgrastim fluoxymesterone fulvestrant flavopiridol floxuridine fludarabine fluorouracil flutamide gefitinib gemcitabine gemtuzumab ozogamicin goserelin granulocyte colony stimulating factor granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor hexamethylmelamine hydrocortisone hydroxyurea ibritumomab interferon alpha interleukin 2 interleukin 4 interleukin 11 isotretinoin ixabepilone idarubicin imatinib mesylate ifosfamide irinotecan lapatinib lenalidomide letrozole leucovorin leuprolide liposomal Ara C lomustine mechlorethamine megestrol melphalan mercaptopurine mesna methotrexate methylprednisolone mitomycin C mitotane mitoxantrone nelarabine nilutamide octreotide oprelvekin oxaliplatin paclitaxel pamidronate pemetrexed panitumumab PEG Interferon pegaspargase pegfilgrastim PEG L asparaginase pentostatin plicamycin prednisolone prednisone procarbazine raloxifene rituximab romiplostim ralitrexed sapacitabine sargramostim satraplatin sorafenib sunitinib semustine streptozocin tamoxifen tegafur tegafur uracil temsirolimus temozolamide teniposide thalidomide thioguanine thiotepa topotecan toremifene tositumomab trastuzumab tretinoin trimitrexate alrubicin vincristine vinblastine vindestine vinorelbine vorinostat or zoledronic acid.

Examples of known chemotherapeutic regimens may include but are not limited to ABVD AC BEACOPP BEP CA or AC CAF CAV CBV ChIVPP EVA CHOP or COHP R CHOP COP or CVP CMF COPP EC ECF EP EPOCH FEC FL also known as Mayo FOLFOX FOLFIRI ICE ICE R m BACOD MACOP B MOPP PCV ProMACE MOPP ProMACE CytaBOM R FCM Stanford V Thal Dex TIP VAC VAD VAPEC B and VIP. Further explanation of these chemotherapeutic regimens is found in Table 1 below.

The following examples are intended to illustrate various embodiments of the invention. As such the specific embodiments discussed are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various equivalents changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of invention and it is understood that such equivalent embodiments are to be included herein. Further all references cited in the disclosure are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

Children s Oncology Group COG ALTE03N1 is a case control study aimed at understanding the pathogenesis of cardiomyopathy in childhood cancer survivors. One hundred twenty one COG member institutions contributed patients to the study after obtaining approval from local institutional review boards. Written informed consent assent was obtained from all patients and or their parents legal guardians.

Prevalent cases and matched controls were identified from patients diagnosed with a primary cancer at age 21 years or younger and followed at a COG institution. Cases consisted of individuals who developed cardiomyopathy after completion of cancer therapy and were alive at study participation. For each case one to four controls were randomly selected from childhood cancer survivors without cardiomyopathy using the following matching criteria 1 cancer diagnosis 2 year of diagnosis 5 years 3 race ethnicity and 4 duration of follow up for controls to exceed time from cancer diagnosis to cardiomyopathy for index case. All participants provided a biologic specimen blood 85 buccal cells saliva 15 . One hundred and seventy cases with cardiomyopathy and 317 matched controls participated in this study.

Detailed information regarding therapeutic exposures was abstracted from medical records. Total anthracycline exposure was calculated by multiplying the cumulative dose mof individual anthracyclines doxorubicin daunomycin epirubicin and idarubicin by a factor that reflects the drug s cardiotoxic potential Table 2 Lehmann et al. 2000 and then summing the result.

Cumulative anthracycline exposure was treated as a categorical variable. Radiation therapy with heart in the radiation field was designated as chest radiation and summarized as a yes no variable.

All anthracycline exposed individuals had normal cardiac function prior to anthracycline initiation. Clinical and echocardiographic documentation of cardiomyopathy was provided by participating sites. Cases were considered eligible if they fulfilled the American Heart Association AHA criteria for cardiac compromise by presenting with symptoms dyspnea orthopnea fatigue etc. and or signs edema hepatomegaly rales etc. of cardiac decompensation or in the absence of symptoms signs had echocardiographic features of left ventricular dysfunction as evidenced by ejection fraction EF 40 and or fractional shortening SF 28 .

Controls had no symptoms or signs of cardiac compromise all 317 controls and had normal echocardiographic features n 203 EF median 65 range 53 84 SF median 36 range 29 61 or no clinical indication for echocardiographic examination because of lack of exposure to anthracyclines or chest radiation n 63 . In addition echocardiograms were unavailable for 51 anthracycline exposed n 41 or chest radiation exposed n 10 controls. Thus echocardiograms were unavailable for 114 controls. Exclusion of these 114 controls did not materially alter the associations therefore the 114 controls were included in the analysis.

Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood or buccal cells saliva by using QIAamp or Qiagen kits Qiagen Valencia Calif. and Puregene Qiagen or Oragene DNA Genotek Kanata Ontario Canada kits respectively. The CBR3 V244M and CBR1 1096G A polymorphisms rs1056892 rs9024 were analyzed using validated assays for allelic discrimination with specific fluorescent probes Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. Gonzalez Covarrubias et al. 2009 Lakhman et al. 2005 . Laboratory personnel were blinded to case control status. Nine samples had noninformative results.

Univariate conditional logistic regression and generalized linear models were used to compare cases and controls for categorical and continuous characteristics respectively. Chi square tests were used to test for deviation from Hardy Weinberg equilibrium.

Association between anthracycline exposure and cardiomyopathy was measured by estimating the odds ratio OR while controlling for chest radiation yes no age at cancer diagnosis continuous variable in years and gender using conditional logistic regression techniques. Cumulative anthracycline exposure was categorized as 0 mg m 1 100 mg m 101 150 mg m 151 200 mg m 201 250 mg m 251 300 mg m and 300 mg m.

SNPs in CBR1 and CBR3 genes were examined individually and in combination. For the combined analysis patients homozygous for both the CBR1 and CBR3G allele i.e. CBR1 GG and CBR3 GG associated with increased CBR activity served as the group of interest while patients carrying at least one copy of the variant A allele in either of the CBR genes i.e. CBR1 GA AA and or CBR3 GA AA served as the reference group. Conditional logistic regression was used to adjust for cumulative anthracycline exposure in addition to gender age at cancer diagnosis and chest radiation.

The interactive effect of genes and anthracycline exposure was examined by including genotypes CBR1 and CBR3 individually as well as in combination anthracycline exposure and the product of CBR genotypes and anthracycline exposure in the model. The risk of cardiomyopathy was examined at varying levels of anthracycline exposure no exposure 0 mg m low to moderate dose 1 250 mg m and high dose 250 mg m for the two risk categories of the CBR genotypes homozygosis for GG v GA AA using CBR GA AA genotype and no exposure to anthracyclines as the referent group. Next the modifying effect of the CBR genotypes was examined by stratifying on the dose categories of anthracyclines.

Data were analyzed using SAS 9.2 SAS Institute Cary N.C. . All statistical tests were two sided p values

Demographic and clinical characteristics of the 170 cases and 317 matched controls are summarized in . Median EF and SF for the cases was 42 range 10 to 68 and 24 5 to 33 respectively. One hundred and sixty six cases 98 met the echocardiographic cut offs for cardiomyopathy EF 40 and or SF 28 the remaining four cases presented with signs symptoms of cardiac compromise per American Heart Association guidelines despite echocardiographic values exceeding the cut offs. Echocardiographic and clinical details of the cases are summarized in and Table 3. Cases had been treated for bone tumor soft tissue sarcoma 33 acute leukemia 25 lymphoma 23 and other diagnoses 19 . Cases were more likely to have received chest radiation 25 v 14 p

After adjusting for age at diagnosis of cancer gender and chest radiation there was a clear dose dependent association between anthracycline exposure and cardiomyopathy risk. Compared with patients without anthracycline exposure the risk of cardiomyopathy increased with each dose category 1 100 mg m OR 1.65 101 150 mg m OR 3.85 151 200 mg m OR 3.69 201 250 mg m OR 7.23 251 300 mg m OR 23.47 and 300 mg m OR 27.59 respectively p for trend 

CBR1 1096G A and CBR3 V244M genotype distributions were consistent with those predicted under conditions of Hardy Weinberg equilibrium CBR1 1096G A p 0.79 CBR3 V244M p 0.27 and were similar to those previously reported p 0.05 Gonzalez Covarrubias et al. 2009 Lakhman et al. 2005 . As shown in there was no association between CBR1 genotype status and cardiomyopathy risk. On the other hand the risk of cardiomyopathy was higher for individuals with homozygous CBR3 GG genotype relative to those carrying at least one copy of the variant CBR3 A allele OR 1.79 p 0.02 . Combined analysis of CBR1 and CBR3 genotype status revealed a non significant increase in cardiomyopathy risk for individuals with CBR1 GG CBR3 GG genotypes OR 1.53 p 0.09 .

Modifying Effect of Polymorphisms in Carbonyl Reductase Genes and Dose Dependent Risk of Anthracycline Related Cardiomyopathy.

The modifying effect of CBR genotype status on the dose dependent association between anthracyclines and risk of cardiomyopathy was analyzed for CBR1 CBR3 and the CBR1 CBR3 combination.

For individuals with CBR1 GA AA genotypes exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines 1 250 mg m the risk of cardiomyopathy was not statistically significantly different from the risk in individuals with CBR1 GA AA not exposed to anthracyclines OR 0.68 p 0.65 . Individuals with CBR1 GG genotype exposed to low to moderate doses of anthracyclines showed a non significant increase in the risk for cardiomyopathy when compared to individuals with CBR1 GA AA genotypes not exposed to anthracyclines OR 2.25 p 0.22 . Within the low to moderate dose category the CBR1 GG genotype was associated with a nonsignificantly increased risk of cardiomyopathy when compared to the CBR1 GA AA genotypes OR 3.29 p 0.05 . Further adjustment for CBR3 genotype attenuated the association OR 2.63 p 0.11 . CBR1 GG genotype was not associated with increased risk of cardiomyopathy within the high dose category .

For individuals with CBR3 GA AA genotype exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines 1 250 mg m the risk of cardiomyopathy was not statistically significantly different from individuals with CBR3 GA AA genotype with no anthracycline exposure OR 1.66 p 0.42 . However individuals with CBR3 GG genotype exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines were at increased risk of cardiomyopathy when compared to subjects with CBR3 GA AA genotypes not exposed to anthracycline OR 5.48 p 0.003 . Within the low to moderate dose category CBR3 GG genotype status was associated with an increased risk of cardiomyopathy when compared to the CBR3 GA AA genotypes OR 3.30 p 0.006 . Further adjustment for CBR1 genotype did not change the association OR 3.48 p 0.005 . CBR3 GG genotype was not associated with cardiomyopathy within the high dose category.

The modifying effect of the combined CBR1 and CBR3 genotypes on the dose dependent association between anthracyclines and cardiomyopathy risk was similar to that observed for the CBR3 genotype .

Next the dose response relation between anthracycline exposure and cardiomyopathy was examined stratified by the patients CBR genotype status patients carrying at least one copy of the variant A allele vs. those homozygous for the G allele . These results indicate that homozygosis for the G allele in CBR3 gene was primarily responsible for modifying the risk for cardiomyopathy. As shown in among patients with at least one copy of the A allele in CBR3 low to moderate dose anthracycline exposure was not associated with cardiomyopathy when compared with patients not exposed to anthracyclines. On the other hand among patients homozygous for the G allele in CBR3 low dose anthracycline exposure was associated with an increased risk of cardiomyopathy 101 150 mg m OR 6.15 95 Cl 1.3 28.8 p 0.02 151 200 mg m OR 6.37 95 Cl 1.0 39.5 p 0.05 and 201 250 mg m OR 10.85 95 Cl 2.7 43.2 p

The presence of survival bias risks under ascertainment of genotypes associated with high lethality with consequent underestimation of disease risk effect sizes for those genotypes associated with both increased disease risk and disease associated lethality Hernan et al. 2004 . As described herein genetic variants have been identified that simultaneously confer modest risk of disease and substantial risk of lethality which could affect the results in case control genetic association studies. Tools that allow calculation of effect size erosion caused by survival bias have been developed. Anderson et al. have developed a formula to allow estimation of effect size erosion given a variant s odds ratio of disease odds ratio of lethality and minor allele frequencies MAF Anderson et al. 2011 . Thus using the variant s MAF genotype relative risk of disease GRR D and genotype relative risk of lethality GRR L in addition to disease annual incidence and disease related mortality estimates for the age range of included subjects the percent erosion of effect size is calculated as described below effect size erosion exp 8.73 1.4 0.067 GRR D 1.02 MAF 1.53 GRR L 7.25 

Using this formula the degree of erosion of the true estimate due to survival bias in this case control study was estimated. In order to do this the MAF for CBR1 to be 0.2 and for CBR3 to be 0.4 was used and an estimated incidence rate of cardiomyopathy of 0.003 per year from a cohort of children treated with anthracycline in the Netherlands was used van Dalen et al. 2006 . The following assumptions were then made i a fairly high mortality rate of 50 ii a GRR D of 2 and GRR L also of 2. Using these assumptions the maximum possible effect size erosion was only about 2.7 . However if the GRR L was assumed to be 3 i.e. the high risk genotype is associated with a 3 fold increased risk of death the maximum possible effect size erosion could be 12 .

Anthracyclines play an undisputed role in the treatment of childhood cancer Granowetter et al. 2009 Grier et al. 2003 Johnson et al. 1998 unfortunately development of dose dependent cardiomyopathy limits their therapeutic potential Gianni et al. 2008 . An elevated risk of clinical heart failure was reported by 5 F year survivors of childhood cancer exposed to anthracycline doses exceeding 250 mg m Mulrooney et al. 2009 . The current study demonstrates elevated risk of clinically validated cardiomyopathy at lower doses such that patients exposed to a cumulative dose of 101 150 mg mare at increased risk compared to the unexposed OR 3.9 . The current study also demonstrates that at low to moderate doses of anthracycline exposure individual differences in anthracycline pharmacodynamics modify the risk of cardiomyopathy.

Myocardial accumulation of anthracycline alcohol metabolites influences the course of cardiomyopathy Mushlin et al. 1993 Stewart et al. 1993 . These metabolites form a reservoir in the cardiomyocytes and impair contractility through inhibition of Ca2 and Na K pump activity Mushlin et al. 1993 Boucek et al. 1987 Olson et al. 1998 . In the human heart CBRs are considered major anthracycline metabolizing enzymes Mordente et al. 2009 Mordente et al. 2003 . Functional polymorphisms in CBR1 and CBR3 modulate the synthesis of anthracycline alcohol metabolites. The rate of doxorubicinol synthesis is 1.5 fold higher in liver samples with CBR1 1096G A homozygous G genotype compared with samples with heterozygous G A genotype Gonzalez Covarrubias et al. 2009 . CBR3 V244M polymorphism results in CBR3 protein isoforms CBR3 V244 CBR3M244 with distinct catalytic properties Bains et al. 2010 Lakhman et al. 2005 CBR3 V244 G allele catalyzes the synthesis of doxorubicinol 2.6 times faster than CBR3M244 A allele Blanco et al. 2008 .

The current study examined the modifying effect of CBR11066G A and CBR3 V244M genotype status on the dose dependent risk of anthracycline related cardiomyopathy. Among individuals carrying at least one copy of the variant A allele in CBR1 and or CBR3 low to moderate dose anthracycline exposure 1 250 mg m was not associated with cardiomyopathy. The risk of cardiomyopathy however was significantly increased among individuals with CBR3 GG genotype exposed to low to moderate dose anthracycline exposure when compared to unexposed individuals carrying at least one copy of the A allele. On the other hand the risk of cardiomyopathy was modest and statistically non significant for individuals with CBR1 GG genotype exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines. CBR1 or CBR3 genotype status did not impact cardiomyopathy risk among those exposed to high dose anthracyclines.

Homozygosis for the G allele in CBR3 gene appears to drive the increase in risk for cardiomyopathy associated with low to moderate dose anthracyclines. The differential impact of CBR1 and CBR3 genotype status on cardiotoxicity may be explained in part by recent findings on the bases that control the transcription of both genes Ebert et al. 2010 Zhang et al. 2009 Lakhman et al. 2007 . CBR3 expression is modulated by the master transcription factor Nrf2 nuclear factor erythroid derived 2 like 2 NFE2L2 whereas expression of CBR1 appears to be predominantly regulated through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor pathway AHR Ebert et al. 2010 Lakhman et al. 2007 . Nrf2 coordinates the induction of a battery of genes involved in protection against oxidative stress. Here it is proposed that the Nrf2 pathway provides a link between the acute cardiotoxicity mediated mostly by reactive oxidative species ROS and chronic cardiotoxicity induced by anthracycline C 13 alcohol metabolites. Parent anthracyclines induce ROS production and Nrf2 translocation into the nucleus. In turn nuclear Nrf2 upregulates CBR3 expression with consequent increase in synthesis of cardiotoxic anthracycline alcohol metabolites. This upregulation of CBR3 activity in a chronic setting may help explain why the association with cardiomyopathy appears to be stronger for polymorphic CBR3 than for polymorphic CBR1.

Restriction of the modifying effect of CBR genotype status only to low to moderate dose anthracyclines is intriguing. In humans approximately 50 of anthracyclines remain unmetabolized Joerger et al. 2005 and induce cardiotoxicity through mechanisms that invoke ROS production Minotti et al. 2004 Menna et al. 2008 . CBR activity contributes to the pathogenesis of cardiomyopathy by generation of cardiotoxic anthracycline alcohol metabolites three possible scenarios could be envisaged depending on the dose of anthracyclines. First in the absence of anthracycline exposure CBR activity does not play a role in the development of cardiomyopathy due to of lack of substrate. Second exposure to low to moderate dose anthracyclines provides the necessary substrate to synthesize cardiotoxic C 13 alcohol metabolites by the high risk high activity CBR variants resulting in an increased risk of cardiomyopathy. Finally in the presence of high dose anthracyclines cardiotoxicity is mostly mediated by the oxidative stress generated by the excess of unmetabolized anthracyclines such that anthracycline alcohol metabolites play a relatively minor role. However it is also possible that cardiomyopathy in individuals exposed to high dose anthracyclines and carrying the high risk variants CBR1 GG CBR3 GG is associated with high lethality thus removing these individuals from the pool of eligible cases and reducing the association in this group to null.

Prevalent case control studies by the very nature of their design exclude fatal endpoints from the case set. Presence of survival bias risks under ascertainment of genotypes associated with high lethality with consequent underestimation of disease risk effect size for those genotypes associated with both increased disease risk and disease associated lethality Hernan et al. 2004 . Using the methodology developed by Anderson et al Anderson et al. 2011 to estimate effect size erosion the maximum possible degree of erosion of the true estimate as a result of survival bias in this case control study was calculated to be 12 assuming that the high risk genotype was associated with a three fold increased risk of death see Results section .

Furthermore in order for early cardiac death to have eliminated the association from an anticipated genotype outcome risk of 3.0 to 1.0 i.e. associated with a 67 erosion due to an overrepresentation of the GG genotype among those who had received high dose anthracyclines and died prior to study participation the high risk genotype would need to be associated with a four fold increased risk of death when compared with the low risk genotype. There is no data to support such a high level of lethality. However since it is logistically impossible to prove this within the context of a large multi institutional study it is acknowledged that the possibility among recipients of high dose anthracyclines patients with CBR1 GG CBR3 GG genotype could have been more likely to have developed cardiomyopathy and died thus becoming lost from the sampling frame and eroding the true association between high risk variants and cardiomyopathy.

Here it is recognized that interindividual variability in alternate metabolic pathways such as reduction to semiquinone radicals by a number of oxidoreductases or two electron reduction by aldo keto reductases and in pharmacodynamic targets e.g. calsequestrin iron regulatory proteins could play a role in modulating cardiomyopathy risk Joerger et al. 2005 . However functional biochemical and genetic studies support CBR mediated reduction of anthracyclines to cardiotoxic alcohol metabolites as a major metabolic route implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiotoxicity Forrest et al. 2000 Olson et al. 2003 . Furthermore findings in this study confirmed the association between CBR3 V244M genotype and cardiomyopathy reported in a small previously published study Blanco et al. 2008 . The current study demonstrates that patients with CBR3 V244M homozygous G genotype exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines are at an increased risk of cardiomyopathy even at cumulative exposures between 101 and 150 mg m. These results could allow for enhanced surveillance and or prevention strategies among childhood cancer survivors at increased risk of cardiomyopathy.

The discovery set was drawn from a Children s Oncology Group study COG ALTE03N1 PI Bhatia that aimed to understand the pathogenesis of cardiomyopathy in childhood cancer survivors. COG member institutions contributed patients after obtaining approval from local institutional review boards. Written informed consent assent was obtained from patients parents legal guardians. Cases and controls were identified from individuals diagnosed with cancer at age 21 years. Cases consisted of individuals who developed cardiomyopathy after completion of cancer therapy and were alive at study participation. For each case 1 to 4 controls were randomly selected from the same COG childhood cancer survivor cohort using the following matching criteria 1 cancer diagnosis 2 year of diagnosis 5 years 3 race ethnicity and 4 duration of cardiomyopathy free follow up for controls to exceed time from cancer diagnosis to cardiomyopathy for the corresponding case. Four hundred and one individuals 130 cases 271 controls participated in this study. All participants provided a biological specimen blood 89 buccal cells saliva 11 for DNA.

Anthracycline exposed participants had normal cardiac function prior to initiation of anthracyclines. Cases fulfilled American Heart Association AHA criteria for cardiac compromise by presenting with symptoms dyspnea orthopnea fatigue and or signs edema hepatomegaly rales of cardiac compromise along with echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction or in the absence of symptoms signs had echocardiographic features of left ventricular dysfunction ejection fraction EF 40 0 and or fractional shortening SF 28 . Controls had no symptoms signs of cardiac compromise coupled with normal echocardiographic features in the anthracycline exposed individuals.

An independent set of 76 patients diagnosed at City of Hope COH with cardiomyopathy following anthracycline exposure were drawn from the COH Long term Follow up study IRB 00029 that follows patients undergoing hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT for the development of cardiomyopathy Armenian et al. 2011 . The protocol was approved by the COH institutional review board and written informed consent assent was obtained from patients parents legal guardians. Eligible cases fulfilled AHA criteria for cardiac compromise along with echocardiographic confirmation of cardiac compromise.

Total lifetime anthracycline exposure was calculated by multiplying the cumulative dose mg m of individual anthracyclines doxorubicin daunomycin epirubicin idarubicin mitoxantrone by a factor that reflects the drug s cardiotoxic potential Table S1 Shankar et al. 2008 and then summing the results. Radiation therapy with heart in the field was designated as chest radiation . Total body irradiation at 12 Gy was included as chest radiation.

Genomic DNA was isolated from peripheral blood buccal cells saliva by using QIAamp Qiagen kits and Puregene Oragene kits respectively. Genotyping was performed on the Illumina IBC cardiovascular SNP array by the Center for Applied Genomics at The Children s Hospital of Philadelphia and the University of Pennsylvania. The IBC cardiovascular SNP array includes a prioritized list of 2100 candidate genes potentially involved in cardiovascular diseases Keating et al. 2008 . This array uses a cosmopolitan approach to determine tagging SNPs for loci of interest to cover genetic diversity in populations of different ancestry De Bakker et al. 2006 .

Quality control QC for genotype data were performed with the PLINK toolset Purcell et al. 2007 . Of the 401 study participants 399 99.5 129 cases 270 controls met call rates 95 . No duplicated samples or sample contamination was identified. The Multidimensional Scaling method Purcell et al. 2007 was used to cluster individuals into two sub populations non Hispanic whites and others . In order to control for potential population stratification 112 individuals in the other category were filtered out retaining 287 non Hispanic whites 93 cases 194 controls in the discovery stage analysis. After adjusting for the overall genomic control inflation factor 1.27 the type I error appeared to be under control. For the 287 individuals the total genotyping rate exceeded 98.9 . Of the 43 293 autosomal SNPs in the IBC SNP array 988 that failed a missingness threshold for missing fraction 0.05 and 7 267 that failed a frequency threshold for a minor allele frequency MAF 

Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood and buccal cells saliva using Qiagen kits. Genomic DNA from formalin fixed paraffin embedded bone marrow biopsies or from unstained slides of bone marrow smear was extracted using QuickExtract FFPE DNA Extraction Solution Epicentre Biotechnologies Madison Wis. . Significant SNP s identified in the discovery stage were genotyped using Sequenom iPLEX SNP chemistry on a MassArray system call rate 93.4 .

Discovery stage was designed as a genome wide association study GWAS to examine both the main effects of SNPs as well as gene environment anthracycline interactions. For each SNP that successfully passed the QC MAF and HWE filters conditional logistic regression techniques were employed Model 1 in R see R. project 

Taking into consideration linkage disequilibrium LD among SNPs and the QC results it was estimated that 10 000 tests were conducted as part of the genome wide analysis. Therefore a p value

Replication stage used a case only design to verify significant gene environment interactions that were identified in the discovery stage. Cumulative anthracycline exposure was dichotomized as low to moderate dose 1 250 mg m and high dose 250 mg m based on a significantly increased risk of cardiomyopathy associated with anthracycline exposure exceeding 250 mg mobserved in recent studies see above . Genotype distributions of significant SNPs in the high dose anthracycline group were compared with those in the low to moderate dose group. Treating the binary variable of anthracycline exposure as a dependent variable logistic regression techniques were used to conduct a gene environment interaction analysis shown in Model 2.

Finally using a case only design Model 2 was used to test gene environment interactions for significant SNP s identified in discovery stage using the combined data from the discovery and replication sets.

Demographic and clinical characteristics of the cases and controls are summarized below in Table 4. Cases were more likely to have received a higher cumulative anthracycline exposure median dose 300 mg mvs. 152 mg m p

Controls had no symptoms signs of cardiac compromise at study participation and had normal echocardiographic features n 155 median EF 66 55 81 median SF 37 29.3 61 or no echocardiographic examination performed because of lack of cardiotoxic exposure n 6 . Echocardiographic details were not available for 33 anthracycline exposed controls their exclusion did not alter and these were included in the analysis.

In a multivariable conditional logistic regression analysis that included age at diagnosis of primary cancer gender chest radiation and cumulative anthracycline exposure the risk of cardiomyopathy for patients exposed to low to moderate dose 1 250 mg m and high dose 250 mg m anthracyclines was 5.0 95 Cl 1.3 20.3 p 0.02 and 33.6 95 Cl 7.6 149 p

Using Model 1 the main effect of SNPs and interaction between each SNP and anthracycline exposure was tested. While no main effect association was observed between SNPs and cardiomyopathy one SNP rs2232228 in gene hyaluronan synthase 3 HAS3 on chromosome 16 exceeded the multiple comparison corrected threshold for significant p value 1.3 10 SNP anthracycline interaction.

The modifying effect of rs2232228 genotype on the dose dependent association between anthracycline and cardiomyopathy risk was shown graphically and in a tabular format Table 5 below . As seen in at low to moderate dose anthracycline exposure the risk of cardiomyopathy did not differ significantly by rs2232228 genotype GG GA or AA . However among individuals exposed to higher dose of anthracyclines the presence of at least one copy of the A allele on SNP rs2232228 increased the cardiomyopathy risk with increasing anthracycline exposure. Especially in individuals with AA genotype cardiomypathy risk increased substantially with anthracycline exposure while in individuals with GG genotype cardiomyopathy risk was not elevated at any anthracycline dose . Table 5 shows that among individuals exposed to high dose anthracyclines the presence of GA and AA genotypes conferred a 4.2 fold 95 Cl 1.2 14.3 p 0.02 and 8.5 fold 95 Cl 2.0 35.6 p 0.004 increased cardiomyopathy risk respectively when compared with the GG genotype. However among individuals exposed to low to moderate dose anthracyclines the presence of GA or AA genotype did not confer increased risk.

As shown in Table 4 median age at primary cancer diagnosis for the 76 patients with cardiomyopathy was 48 years 13 to 68 and 59 were non Hispanic whites. Median cumulative anthracycline exposure was 300 mg mand the median EF was 39 13 50 . Patient cases had been treated for Hodgkin s lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma acute lymphoblastic leukemia acute myeloid leukemia and multiple myeloma .

Table 6 summarizes the results of gene environment interaction analysis for SNP rs2232228 using the case only replication data set. Compared with cases with GG genotype the odds of cases with AA genotype for being in the high dose anthracycline group were 5 times higher 95 Cl 1.2 21.9 p 0.03 .

Cases from the discovery and replication sets were combined to conduct a case only analysis to test gene environment interaction at SNP rs2232228. Cases with AA genotype had 4 times higher odds of being in the high dose anthracyclines group than those with GG genotype 95 Cl 1.4 11.2 p 0.01 Table 6 . Similar results were observed with analysis restricted to non Hispanic whites data not shown .

Hyaluronic acid HA is a major component of the extracellular matrix that is expressed in most tissues. HA is especially enriched in matrices undergoing remodeling. HA plays a role in cell proliferation cell migration inflammation tumorigenesis angiogenesis embryonic development and the organization of the extracellular matrix. The dynamic turnover of ECM results in net deposition of matrix in interstitium of affected tissue.

HAS genes HAS1 HAS2 HAS3 are responsible for HA synthesis. HAS is located in the cell membrane and secreted into interstitial space. Expression of HAS appears to correlate directly to HA synthesis. Regulation of HAS occurs at the level of transcription. HAS1 and HAS2 produce high molecular weight HA. HAS3 gene expression plays an important role in regulation of LMW HA synthesis.

LMW HA accumulates at sites of inflammation and is implicated in multiple proinflammatory activities such as monocyte activation leukocyte adhesion to endothelium smooth muscle cell migration as part of wound healing induction of chemokines and activation of dendritic cells and macrophages through NF B signaling. Additionally reactive oxygen species have been shown to be potent inducers of HA depolymerization yielding smaller molecules. HAS3 induced over expression of HA often leads to organ dysfunction. For example acute lung injury caused by large tidal volume mechanical ventilation is mediated by LMW HA produced by upregulation of HAS3. Thus these genes may have a role in anthracycline related myocardial injury through pro inflammatory activities.

The high density IBC cardiovascular SNP array described above was used to study the association between anthracycline related cardiomyopathy and 34 912 SNPs in 2 100 carefully curated genes known to be associated with de novo cardiovascular disease Keating et al. 2008 . There was a substantial modifying effect of the common SNP rs2232228 in HAS3 on the dose dependent risk of anthracycline related cardiomyopathy. Among individuals with a homozygous G genotype on SNP rs2232228 cardiomypathy risk did not demonstrate a dose dependent increase. However in individuals with AA genotype cardiomypathy risk increased significantly as anthracycline exposure increased. Thus among individuals exposed to high dose anthracyclines presence of AA genotype conferred an 8.5 fold increased cardiomyopathy risk when compared with the GG genotype. This significant gene environment interaction at SNP rs2232228 was replicated using an independent set of cases with anthracycline related cardiomyopathy.

In this study the identified significant SNP rs2232228 on exon2 of HAS3 67701078 bp resides on chromosome 16 and appears to be in a region of low LD. The data contain 7 SNPs in HAS3 but the LD between rs2232228 and the other 6 SNPs were not strong the largest rwas 0.42 between rs2232228 and rs8047014 . The gene environment interaction for rs8047014 was not significant. The entire chromosome 16 was also imputed using 1000 genome SNPs as reference SNPs. Analysis based on SNPs with imputed r 0.5 did not reveal any SNPs with strong gene environment interactions. Finally the HapMap CEU data was examined within 1 Mb of rs2232228 and only 2 SNPs were identified both with weak LD rs8082856 r 0.56 rs9332431 r 0.579 .

The case only design used to replicate significant findings is an efficient and valid method for evaluating gene environment interactions Begg et al. 1994 . A positive association 2 fold implies a gene environment interaction Vanderweele et al. 2010 . The current study demonstrated that among cases individuals with homozygosis for A allele of rs223228 in HAS3 had a 5 fold increased odds of being in the high dose anthracycline group.

Prevalent case control studies are at risk for underestimation of effect size for genotypes associated with both increased disease risk and disease associated lethality Hernan et al. 2004 Anderson et al. 2011 . In the current study a dose dependent association was not observed between anthracyclines and cardiomypathy risk in individuals with a homozygous G genotype on SNP rs2232228. Although high lethality could erode a potential anthracycline cardiomyopathy association there is currently no data to support high lethality associated with the G allele of rs2232228. Furthermore the replication set included all patients with cardiomyopathy alive and deceased in a cohort of HCT recipients. Successful replication of significant findings indicates that survival bias is likely not a significant issue with the prevalent cases and controls in the discovery set.

Of note while the discovery set was limited to non Hispanic white childhood cancer survivors the replication set included cases drawn from survivors of childhood and adult onset cancer from all racial ethnic backgrounds. The successful replication of the finding in a clinically and demographically diverse population speaks to the robustness of the association between the common variants in rs2232228 in HAS3 gene and anthracycline related cardiomyopathy.

In this study SNP rs2232228 in the HAS3 gene was shown to alter the risk of anthracycline related cardiomyopathy among patients exposed to high dose anthracyclines. The IBC cardiovascular SNP array was used with a carefully curated yet comprehensive list of genes enriched for their association with de novo cardiovascular disorders reducing the probability of false positive associations and helping identify smaller specific pathogenetic regions associated with cardiomyopathy. However the IBC cardiovascular SNP array does not include genes that could potentially regulate anthracycline metabolism or disposition CBR MRP MDR1 SLC28A3 ABCB1 ABCB4 ABCC1 Blanco et al. 2012 Visscher et al. 2012 Wojnowski et al. 2005 or are implicated in the pathogenesis HFE Miranda et al. 2003 .

This investigation establishes a foundation to understand the functional significance of SNP rs2232228. In addition these findings provide a rationale for genotyping for the SNP rs2232228 to tailor anthracycline dose prior to anthracycline exposure or develop screening intervention strategies after anthracycline exposure among those at increased risk of cardiomyopathy in order to maximize the benefits of anthracycline therapy.

The references patents and published patent applications listed below and all references cited in the specification above are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

