---

title: Substituted pyrido[2,3-B]pyrazines as IP receptor agonists
abstract: The present invention provides substituted pyrido[2,3-b]pyrazines which activate the IP receptor. Activating the IP receptor signaling pathway is useful to treat many forms of PAH, pulmonary fibrosis and exert beneficial effects in fibrotic conditions of various organs in animal models and in patients. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising such substituted pyride[2,3-b]pyrazines are also encompassed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09115129&OS=09115129&RS=09115129
owner: Novartis AG
number: 09115129
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20130111
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase filing of international Application No. PCT IB2013 050282 filed 11 Jan. 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61 586 436 filed 13 Jan. 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Prostacyclin or PGI2 is a member of the family of lipid molecules known as eicosanoids. It is a potent vasodilator antiproliferative anti thrombotic agent that mediates its effects as an agonist of the IP receptor. The IP receptor is a G protein coupled receptor that upon activation by prostacyclin stimulates the formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate cAMP . Prostacyclin counteracts the vasoconstrictor and pro thrombotic activity of endothelin.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH is a life threatening disease characterized by a progressive pulmonary vasculopathy leading to right ventricular hypertrophy. Exogenous administration of an agonist of the IP receptor has become an important strategy in the treatment of PAH. See e.g. Tuder et al. Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care. Med. 1999 159 1925 1932 Humbert et al J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 2004 43 13S 24S Rosenzweig Expert Opin. Emerging Drugs 2006 11 609 619 McLaughlin et al Circulation 2006 114 1417 1431 Rosenkranz Clin. Res. Cardiol. 2007 96 527 541 Driscoll et al Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 9 65 81. .

The prostacyclin analogue epoprostenol flolan is at least as effective as transplantation in terms of survival. Despite this it is not used as frontline therapy due to significant tolerability convenience and cost issues. Instead patients with PAH are often treated first with either endothelin receptor antagonists e.g. bosentan and or PDE5 inhibitors e.g. sildenafil which are better tolerated but can have limited efficacy. Prostacyclin analogues are used mainly as add on treatment as severity of the disease progresses and tolerability and convenience become less of an issue.

Two key issues prevent current prostacyclin analogues being used as frontline therapy in PAH. Firstly they are very unstable with an extremely short half life meaning they must be constantly infused via an in dwelling intra venous i.v. catheter that is both inconvenient for the patient and also associated with a significant risk of infection and sepsis. Secondly they are associated with significant side effects including nausea jaw pain headache and other side effects associated with systemic hypotension.

One solution to these issues is iloprost which is available as a nebulised formulation that has reduced tolerability issues but the short half life results in a 6 9 times daily dosing regime. More recently researchers made efforts to generate stable orally available IP receptor agonists. These ligands would improve patient convenience and compliance but high levels of systemic drug is required to achieve pharmacodynamic effects in the lung thus possibly generating similar side effects to those observed with i.v. flolan.

The present invention describes stable highly selective IP receptor agonists that are suitable for oral and inhaled delivery. The present invention offers a significant improvement over existing prostacyclin analogues and enables their use in less severe patients. In addition long term activation of the IP receptor has been shown to reverse remodeling associated with PAH therefore earlier intervention with the present invention may have significant effects on disease progression and potentially may show reversal.

In addition pharmaceutical research has considerable interest in developing IP receptor agonists for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis. IP deficient mice have been shown to be more susceptible to bleomycin induced lung fibrosis than wild type animals Lovgren A K et al. 2006 2911144 56 and the IP receptor agonist iloprost increases survival in bleomycin treated mice Zhu et al 2010 Respir Res. 11 1 34 .

Furthermore IP receptor signaling has been shown to exert beneficial effects in fibrotic conditions of various organs in animal models and in patients. Benefits of IP receptor agonist were shown for fibrosis of the heart lung skin pancreas and liver and in systemic sclerosis. Gayraud M 2007 74 1 e1 8 Hirata Y et al 2009 63 10 781 6 Kaneshige T et al 2007 69 12 1271 6 Sahsivar MO et al 2009 32 5 498 502 Sato N et al 2010 59 4 1092 100 Shouval DS et al 2008 26 3 Suppl 49 S105 7 Spargias K et al 2009 120 18 1793 9 Stratton R et al 2001 108 2 241 50 Takenaka M et al 2009 Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 80 5 6 263 7 Watanabe M et al 2009 30 1 1 11 Yano T et al 2005 166 5 1333 42 Zardi EM et al 2007 7 6 785 90 Zardi EM et al 2006 20 3 377 80 Rehberger P et al 2009 89 3 245 9 . Fibrotic conditions can occur in most organs secondary to chronic inflammation indications throughout the body and are likely to share common causes.

Therefore antifibrotic agents such as IP receptor agonists of the present invention are of potential benefit in all indications that are associated with fibrotic tissue remodeling.

There is considerable interest in developing agonists of the IP receptor for use in the treatment of other diseases such as atherothrombosis preeclampsia. It is highly desirable to develop a stable inhaled agonists of the IP receptor which may lead to improved management of PAH.

The invention pertains to the compounds as disclosed below methods for using them and uses thereof as described herein.

In a second aspect the invention provides a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined in the first aspect for use as a medicine.

Activating the IP receptor has been shown to have a beneficial effect or treat the following diseases or disorders 

PAH selected from idiopathic PAH familial PAH PAH associated with a collagen vascular disease selected from scleroderma CREST syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis Takayasu s arteritis polymyositis and dermatomyositis PAH associated with a congenital heart disease selected from atrial septic defect ASD ventricular septic defect VSD and patent ductus arteriosus in an individual PAH associated with portal hypertension PAH associated with HIV infection PAH associated with ingestion of a drug or toxin PAH associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia PAH associated with splenectomy PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement PAH associated with pulmonary veno occlusive disease PVOD and PAH associated with pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis PCH Raynaud s phenomenon including Raynaud s disease and Raynaud s syndrome fibrotic diseases including pulmonary fibrosis systemic sclerosis scleroderma hepatic fibrosis cirrhosis renal fibrosis thrombotic diseases associated with excessive platelet aggregation coronary artery disease myocardial infarction transient ischemic attack angina stroke ischemia reperfusion injury restenosis atrial fibrillation blood clot formation atherosclerosis atherothrombosis asthma a symptom of asthma a diabetic related disorder diabetic peripheral neuropathy diabetic nephropathy diabetic retinopathy glaucoma or other disease of the eye with abnormal intraocular pressure hypertension preeclampsia inflammation prophylaxis against unwanted side effects of COX 1 COX 2 and non selective COX inhibitors psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis Crohn s disease transplant rejection multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE ulcerative colitis ischemia reperfusion injury restenosis atherosclerosis acne type 1 diabetes type 2 diabetes sepsis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder COPD .

In a further aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the treatment of PAH as described above.

In a further aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the treatment of a disorder selected from the aforementioned diseases and disorders.

In a still further aspect the present invention provides for the use of a compound as defined in the first aspect in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. In an embodiment of the present invention there is provided for the use of a compound as defined in the first aspect in free or pharmaceutically acceptable salt form for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of PAH selected from idiopathic PAH familial PAH PAH associated with a collagen vascular disease selected from scleroderma CREST syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis Takayasu s arteritis polymyositis and dermatomyositis PAH associated with a congenital heart disease selected from atrial septic defect ASD ventricular septic defect VSD and patent ductus arteriosus in an individual PAH associated with portal hypertension PAH associated with HIV infection PAH associated with ingestion of a drug or toxin PAH associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia PAH associated with splenectomy PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement PAH associated with pulmonary veno occlusive disease PVOD and PAH associated with pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis PCH .

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method for the prevention or treatment of an IP receptor mediated condition or disease comprising administering an effective amount of at least one compound as defined in the first aspect to a subject in need of such treatment. Such IP receptor mediated conditions or diseases are selected from PAH selected from idiopathic PAH familial PAH PAH associated with a collagen vascular disease selected from scleroderma CREST syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus SLE rheumatoid arthritis Takayasu s arteritis polymyositis and dermatomyositis PAH associated with a congenital heart disease selected from atrial septic defect ASD ventricular septic defect VSD and patent ductus arteriosus in an individual PAH associated with portal hypertension PAH associated with HIV infection PAH associated with ingestion of a drug or toxin PAH associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia PAH associated with splenectomy PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement PAH associated with pulmonary veno occlusive disease PVOD and PAH associated with pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis PCH .

Other IP receptor mediated conditions or diseases are selected from platelet aggregation coronary artery disease myocardial infarction transient ischemic attack angina stroke ischemia reperfusion injury restenosis atrial fibrillation blood clot formation atherosclerosis atherothrombosis asthma a symptom of asthma a diabetic related disorder diabetic peripheral neuropathy diabetic nephropathy diabetic retinopathy glaucoma or other disease of the eye with abnormal intraocular pressure hypertension inflammation psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis Crohn s disease transplant rejection multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE ulcerative colitis ischemia reperfusion injury restenosis atherosclerosis acne type 1 diabetes type 2 diabetes sepsis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder COPD .

Throughout this specification and in the claims that follow unless the context requires otherwise the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising should be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts that retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds of this invention and which typically are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases the compounds as defined in the first aspect are capable of forming acid and or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and or carboxyl groups or groups similar thereto.

Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts can be formed with inorganic acids and organic acids e.g. acetate aspartate benzoate besylate bromide hydrobromide bicarbonate carbonate bisulfate sulfate camphorsulfonate chloride hydrochloride chlortheophyllonate citrate ethanedisulfonate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glucuronate hippurate hydroiodide iodide isethionate lactate lactobionate laurylsulfate malate maleate malonate mandelate mesylate methylsulphate naphthoate napsylate nicotinate nitrate octadecanoate oleate oxalate palmitate pamoate phosphate hydrogen phosphate dihydrogen phosphate polygalacturonate propionate stearate succinate sulfosalicylate tartrate tosylate trifluoroacetate and xinafoate salts.

Inorganic acids from which salts can be derived include for example hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like.

Organic acids from which salts can be derived include for example acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid oxalic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphtoic acid and sulfosalicylic acid.

Inorganic bases from which salts can be derived include for example ammonium salts and metals from columns I to XII of the periodic table. In certain embodiments the salts are derived from sodium potassium ammonium calcium magnesium iron silver zinc and copper particularly suitable salts include ammonium potassium sodium calcium and magnesium salts.

Organic bases from which salts can be derived include for example primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines basic ion exchange resins and the like. Certain organic amines include isopropylamine benzathine cholinate diethanolamine diethylamine lysine meglumine piperazine and tromethamine.

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from a parent compound a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting free acid forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base such as Na Ca Mg or K hydroxide carbonate bicarbonate or the like or by reacting free base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate acid. Such reactions are typically carried out in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two. Generally use of non aqueous media like ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol acetone or acetonitrile is desirable where practicable. Lists of additional suitable salts can be found e.g. in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 20th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1985 and in Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties Selection and Use by Stahl and Wermuth Wiley VCH Weinheim Germany 2002 .

Furthermore the compounds as defined in the first aspect including their salts can also be obtained in the form of their hydrates or include other solvents used for their crystallization.

Compounds of the invention that contain groups capable of acting as donors and or acceptors for hydrogen bonds may be capable of forming co crystals with suitable co crystal formers. These co crystals may be prepared from compounds as defined in the first aspect by known co crystal forming procedures. Such procedures include grinding heating co subliming co melting or contacting in solution compounds as defined in the first aspect with the co crystal former under crystallization conditions and isolating co crystals thereby formed. Suitable co crystal formers include those described in WO 2004 078163. Hence the invention further provides co crystals comprising a compound as defined in the first aspect.

As used herein the term an optical isomer or a stereoisomer refers to any of the various stereo isomeric configurations which may exist for a given compound of the present invention and includes geometric isomers. It is understood that a substituent may be attached at a chiral center of a carbon atom. Therefore the invention includes enantiomers diastereomers or racemates of the compound. Enantiomers are a pair of stereoisomers that are non superimposable mirror images of each other. A 1 1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a racemic mixture. The term is used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. Diastereoisomers are stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms but which are not mirror images of each other. The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the Cahn Ingold Prelog R S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer the stereochemistry at each chiral carbon may be specified by either R or S. Resolved compounds whose absolute configuration is unknown can be designated or depending on the direction dextro or levorotatory which they rotate plane polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line. Certain of the compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers or axes and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S . The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers including racemic mixtures optically pure forms and intermediate mixtures. Optically active R and S isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques. If the compound contains a double bond the substituent may be E or Z configuration. If the compound contains a disubstituted cycloalkyl the cycloalkyl substituent may have a cis or trans configuration. All tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

Any asymmetric atom e.g. carbon or the like of the compound s of the present invention can be present in racemic or enantiomerically enriched for example the R S or R S configuration. In certain embodiments each asymmetric atom has at least 50 enantiomeric excess at least 60 enantiomeric excess at least 70 enantiomeric excess at least 80 enantiomeric excess at least 90 enantiomeric excess at least 95 enantiomeric excess or at least 99 enantiomeric excess in the R or S configuration. Substituents at atoms with unsaturated bonds may if possible be present in cis Z or trans E form.

Accordingly as used herein a compound of the present invention can be in the form of one of the possible isomers rotamers atropisomers tautomers or mixtures thereof for example as substantially pure geometric cis or trans isomers diastereomers optical isomers antipodes racemates or mixtures thereof.

Any resulting mixtures of isomers can be separated on the basis of the physicochemical differences of the constituents into the pure or substantially pure geometric or optical isomers diastereomers racemates for example by chromatography and or fractional crystallization.

Any resulting racemates of final products or intermediates can be resolved into the optical antipodes by known methods e.g. by separation of the diastereomeric salts thereof obtained with an optically active acid or base and liberating the optically active acidic or basic compound. In particular a basic moiety may thus be employed to resolve the compounds as defined in the first aspect into their optical antipodes e.g. by fractional crystallization of a salt formed with an optically active acid e.g. tartaric acid dibenzoyl tartaric acid diacetyl tartaric acid di O O p toluoyl tartaric acid mandelic acid malic acid or camphor 10 sulfonic acid. Racemic products can also be resolved by chiral chromatography e.g. high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC using a chiral adsorbent.

Since the compounds of the invention are intended for use in pharmaceutical compositions it will readily be understood that they are each preferably provided in substantially pure form for example at least 60 pure more suitably at least 75 pure and preferably at least 85 especially at least 98 pure are on a weight for weight basis . Impure preparations of the compounds may be used for preparing the more pure forms used in the pharmaceutical compositions these less pure preparations of the compounds should contain at least 1 more suitably at least 5 and preferably from 10 to 59 of a compound of the invention.

Compounds as defined in the first aspect are either obtained in the free form as a salt thereof or as prodrug derivatives thereof.

When both a basic group and an acid group are present in the same molecule the compounds as defined in the first aspect may also form internal salts e.g. zwitterionic molecules.

The present invention also provides pro drugs of the compounds as defined in the first aspect that converts in vivo to the compounds as defined in the first aspect. A pro drug is an active or inactive compound that is modified chemically through in vivo physiological action such as hydrolysis metabolism and the like into a compound of this invention following administration of the prodrug to a subject. The suitability and techniques involved in making and using pro drugs are well known by those skilled in the art. Prodrugs can be conceptually divided into two non exclusive categories bioprecursor prodrugs and carrier prodrugs. See Ch. 31 32 Ed. Wermuth Academic Press San Diego Calif. 2001 . Generally bioprecursor prodrugs are compounds which are inactive or have low activity compared to the corresponding active drug compound that contain one or more protective groups and are converted to an active form by metabolism or solvolysis. Both the active drug form and any released metabolic products should have acceptably low toxicity.

Carrier prodrugs are drug compounds that contain a transport moiety e.g. that improve uptake and or localized delivery to a site s of action. Desirably for such a carrier prodrug the linkage between the drug moiety and the transport moiety is a covalent bond the prodrug is inactive or less active than the drug compound and any released transport moiety is acceptably non toxic. For prodrugs where the transport moiety is intended to enhance uptake typically the release of the transport moiety should be rapid. In other cases it is desirable to utilize a moiety that provides slow release e.g. certain polymers or other moieties such as cyclodextrins. Carrier prodrugs can for example be used to improve one or more of the following properties increased lipophilicity increased duration of pharmacological effects increased site specificity decreased toxicity and adverse reactions and or improvement in drug formulation e.g. stability water solubility suppression of an undesirable organoleptic or physiochemical property . For example lipophilicity can be increased by esterification of a hydroxyl groups with lipophilic carboxylic acids e.g. a carboxylic acid having at least one lipophilic moiety or b carboxylic acid groups with lipophilic alcohols e.g. an alcohol having at least one lipophilic moiety for example aliphatic alcohols .

Exemplary prodrugs are e.g. esters of free carboxylic acids and S acyl derivatives of thiols and O acyl derivatives of alcohols or phenols wherein acyl has a meaning as defined herein. Suitable prodrugs are often pharmaceutically acceptable ester derivatives convertible by solvolysis under physiological conditions to the parent carboxylic acid e.g. lower alkyl esters cycloalkyl esters lower alkenyl esters benzyl esters mono or disubstituted lower alkyl esters such as the amino mono or di lower alkylamino carboxy lower alkoxycarbonyl lower alkyl esters the lower alkanoyloxy lower alkoxycarbonyl or di lower alkylaminocarbonyl lower alkyl esters such as the pivaloyloxymethyl ester and the like conventionally used in the art. In addition amines have been masked as arylcarbonyloxymethyl substituted derivatives which are cleaved by esterases in vivo releasing the free drug and formaldehyde Bundgaard 2503 1989 . Moreover drugs containing an acidic NH group such as imidazole imide indole and the like have been masked with N acyloxymethyl groups Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 . Hydroxy groups have been masked as esters and ethers. EP 039 051 Sloan and Little discloses Mannich base hydroxamic acid prodrugs their preparation and use.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N F P P S Cl I respectively. The invention includes various isotopically labeled compounds as defined herein for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H C and C are present. Such isotopically labeled compounds are useful in metabolic studies with C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In particular an F or labeled compound may be particularly desirable for PET or SPECT studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent of a compound as defined in the first aspect. The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by the isotopic enrichment factor. The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope. If a substituent in a compound of this invention is denoted deuterium such compound has an isotopic enrichment factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at each designated deuterium atom at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium incorporation at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation .

Isotopically labeled compounds as defined in the first aspect can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the accompanying Examples and Preparations using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagents in place of the non labeled reagent previously employed.

Pharmaceutically acceptable solvates in accordance with the invention include those wherein the solvent of crystallization may be isotopically substituted e.g. DO d acetone d DMSO.

Compounds as defined in the first aspect in free form may be converted into salt form and vice versa in a conventional manner understood by those skilled in the art. The compounds in free or salt form can be obtained in the form of hydrates or solvates containing a solvent used for crystallisation. Compounds as defined in the first aspect can be recovered from reaction mixtures and purified in a conventional manner. Isomers such as stereoisomers may be obtained in a conventional manner e.g. by fractional crystallisation or asymmetric synthesis from correspondingly asymmetrically substituted e.g. optically active starting materials.

The compounds as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be prepared e.g. using the reactions and techniques described below and in the Examples. The reactions may be performed in a solvent appropriate to the reagents and materials employed and suitable for the transformations being effected. It will be understood by those skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the functionality present on the molecule should be consistent with the transformations proposed. This will sometimes require a judgment to modify the order of the synthetic steps or to select one particular process scheme over another in order to obtain a desired compound of the invention.

The various substituents on the synthetic intermediates and final products shown in the following reaction schemes can be present in their fully elaborated forms with suitable protecting groups where required as understood by one skilled in the art or in precursor forms which can later be elaborated into their final forms by methods familiar to one skilled in the art. The substituents can also be added at various stages throughout the synthetic sequence or after completion of the synthetic sequence. In many cases commonly used functional group manipulations can be used to transform one intermediate into another intermediate or one compound of formula I Ia II or IIa into another compound of formula I Ia II or IIa. Examples of such manipulations are conversion of an ester or a ketone to an alcohol conversion of an ester to a ketone interconversions of esters acids and amides alkylation acylation and sulfonylation of alcohols and amines and many others.

Substituents can also be added using common reactions such as alkylation acylation halogenation or oxidation. Such manipulations are well known in the art and many reference works summarize procedures and methods for such manipulations. Some reference works which gives examples and references to the primary literature of organic synthesis for many functional group manipulations as well as other transformations commonly used in the art of organic synthesis are 5Edition Wiley and Chichester Eds. 2001 Larock Ed. VCH 1989 Katritzky et al. series editors Pergamon 1995 and Trost and Fleming series editors Pergamon 1991 . It will also be recognized that another major consideration in the planning of any synthetic route in this field is the judicious choice of the protecting group used for protection of the reactive functional groups present in the compounds described in this invention. Multiple protecting groups within the same molecule can be chosen such that each of these protecting groups can either be removed without removal of other protecting groups in the same molecule or several protecting groups can be removed using the same reaction step depending upon the outcome desired. An authoritative account describing many alternatives to the trained practitioner is Greene and Wuts Wiley and Sons 4Edition 2006 .

The compounds disclosed herein activate the IP receptor and are useful in the treatment of several diseases and disorders and in the amelioration of symptoms thereof. Without limitation these include the following 

PAH has a multifactorial pathobiology. Vasoconstriction remodeling of the pulmonary vessel wall and thrombosis contribute to increased pulmonary vascular resistance in PAH Humbert et al J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 2004 43 13S 24S. . The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein are useful in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH and symptoms thereof. PAH shall be understood to encompass the following forms of pulmonary arterial hypertension described in the 2003 World Health Organization WHO clinical classification of pulmonary arterial hypertension idiopathic PAH BPAH familial PAH FPAH PAH associated with other conditions APAH such as PAH associated with collagen vascular disease PAH associated with congenital systemic to pulmonary shunts PAH associated with portal hypertension PAH associated with HTV infection PAH associated with drugs or toxins or PAH associated with Other and PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement. Idiopathic PAH refers to PAH of undetermined cause. Familial PAH refers to PAH for which hereditary transmission is suspected or documented. PAH associated with collagen vascular disease shall be understood to encompass PAH associated with scleroderma PAH associated with CREST calcinosis cutis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysfunction sclerodactyly and telangiectasias syndrome PAH associated with systemic lupus erythematosus SLE PAH associated with rheumatoid arthritis PAH associated with Takayasu s arteritis PAH associated with polymyositis and PAH associated with dermatomyositis. PAH associated with congenital systerruc to pulmonary shunts shall be understood to encompass PAH associated with atrial septic defect ASD PAH associated with ventricular septic defect VSD and PAH associated with patent ductus arteriosus.

PAH associated with drugs or toxins shall be understood to encompass PAH associated with ingestion of aminorex PAH associated with ingestion of a fenfluramine compound e.g. PAH associated with ingestion of fenfluramine or PAH associated with ingestion of dexfenfluramine PAH associated with ingestion of certain toxic oils e g PAH associated with ingestion of rapeseed oil PAH associated with ingestion of pyrrolizidine alkaloids e.g PAH associated with ingestion of bush tea and PAH associated with ingestion of monocrotaline. PAH associated with Other shall be understood to encompass PAH associated with a thyroid disorder PAH associated with glycogen storage disease PAH associated with Gaucher disease PAH associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia PAH associated with a hemoglobinopathy PAH associated with a myeloproliferative disorder and PAH associated with splenectomy. PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement shall be understood to encompass PAH associated with pulmonary veno occlusive disease PVOD and PAH associated with pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis PCH . See e.g Simonneau et al J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 2004 43 5S 12S McGoon et al. Chest 2004 126 14S 34S Rabinovitch Annu. Rev. Pathol. Mech. Dis. 2007 2 369 399 McLaughlin et al Circulation 2006 114 1417 1431 Strauss et al Clin. Chest. Med. 2007 28 127 142 Taichman et al. Clin. Chest. Med. 2007 28 1 22. .

Evidence for the association of PAH with scleroderma and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Badesch et al Badesch et al Ann. Intern. Med. 2000 132 425 434 . Evidence for the association of PAH with the collagen vascular diseases mixed connective tissue disease MCTD systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Sjogren s syndrome and CREST syndrome and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Humbert et al. Eur. Respir. J. 1999 13 1351 1356 . Evidence for the association of PAH with CREST syndrome and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Miwa et al. Int. Heart J. 2007 48 417 422 . Evidence for the association of PAH with SLE and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Robbins et al Chest 2000 117 14 18 . Evidence for the association of PAH with HIV infection and the beneficial of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Aguilar et al. Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 2000 162 1846 1850 . Evidence for the association of PAH with congenital heart defects including ASD VSD and patent ductus arteriosus and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Rosenzweig et al. Circulation 1999 99 1858 1865 .

Evidence for the association of PAH with fenfluramine and with dexfenfluramine anorexigens is given by Archer et al. Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 1998 158 1061 1067 . Evidence for the association of PAH with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is given by McGoon et al. Chest 2004 126 14 34 . Evidence for the association of PAH with splenectomy is given by Hoeper et al. Ann. Intern. Med. 1999 130 506 509 . Evidence for the association of PAH with portal hypertension and the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor on PAH is given by Hoeper et al. Eur. Respir. J. 2005 25 502 508 .

Symptoms of PAH include dyspnea angina syncope and edema McLaughlin et al. Circulation 2006 114 1417 1431 . The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein are useful in the treatment of symptoms of PAH.

Antiplatelet agents antiplatelets are prescribed for a variety of conditions. For example in coronary artery disease they are used to help prevent myocardial infarction or stroke in patients who are at risk of developing obstructive blood clots e.g. coronary thrombosis .

In a myocardial infarction the heart muscle does not receive enough oxygen rich blood as a result of a blockage in the coronary blood vessels. If taken while an attack is in progress or immediately afterward preferably within 30 min antiplatelets can reduce the damage to the heart.

A transient ischemic attack TIA or mini stroke is a brief interruption of oxygen flow to the brain due to decreased blood flow through arteries usually due to an obstructing blood clot. Antiplatelet drugs have been found to be effective in preventing TIAs. Angina is a temporary and often recurring chest pain pressure or discomfort caused by inadequate oxygen rich blood flow ischemia to some parts of the heart. In patients with angina antiplatelet therapy can reduce the effects of angina and the risk of myocardial infarction.

Stroke is an event in which the brain does not receive enough oxygen rich blood usually due to blockage of a cerebral blood vessel by a blood clot. In high risk patients taking antiplatelets regularly has been found to prevent the formation of blood clots that cause first or second strokes. Angioplasty is a catheter based technique used to open arteries obstructed by a blood clot. Whether or not stenting is performed immediately after this procedure to keep the artery open antiplatelets can reduce the risk of forming additional blood clots following the procedure s .

Coronary bypass surgery is a surgical procedure in which an artery or vein is taken from elsewhere in the body and grafted to a blocked coronary artery rerouting blood around the blockage and through the newly attached vessel. After the procedure antiplatelets can reduce the risk of secondary blood clots.

Atrial fibrillation is the most common type of sustained irregular heart rhythm arrhythmia . Atrial fibrillation affects about two million Americans every year. In atrial fibrillation the atria the heart s upper chambers rapidly fire electrical signals that cause them to quiver rather than contract normally. The result is an abnormally fast and highly irregular heartbeat. When given after an episode of atrial fibrillation antiplatelets can reduce the risk of blood clots forming in the heart and traveling to the brain embolism .

There is evidence that an IP receptor agonist will inhibit platelet aggregation and thus be a potential treatment as an antiplatelet therapy see e.g. Moncada et al. Lancet 1977 1 18 20 . It has been shown that genetic deficiency of the IP receptor in mice leads to an increased propensity towards thrombosis Murata et al Nature 1997 388 678 682 .

IP receptor agonists can be used to treat for example claudication or peripheral artery disease as well as cardiovascular complications arterial thrombosis atherosclerosis vasoconstriction caused by serotonin ischemia reperfusion injury and restenosis of arteries following angioplasty or stent placement. See e.g. Fetalvero et al Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2007 82 109 118 Arehart et al Curr. Med. Chem. 2007 14 2161 2169 Davi et al N. Engl. J. Med. 2007 357 2482 2494 Fetalvero et al Am. J. Physiol. Heart. Circ. Physiol. 2006 290 H1337 H1346 Murata et al Nature 1997 388 678 682 Wang et al Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2006 103 14507 14512 Xiao et al Circulation 2001 104 2210 2215 McCormick et al Biochem. Soc. Trans. 2007 35 910 911 Arehart et al Circ. Res. 2008 Mar. 6. .

IP receptor agonists can also be used alone or in combination with thrombolytic therapy for example tissue type plasminogen activator t PA to provide cardioprotection following MI or postischemic myocardial dysfunction or protection from ischemic injury during percutaneous coronary intervention and the like including complications resulting therefrom. IP receptor agonists can also be used in antiplatelet therapies in combination with for example alpha tocopherol vitamin E echistatin a disintegrin or in states of hypercoagulability heparin. See e.g. Chan. J. Nutr. 1998 128 1593 1596 Mardla et al Platelets 2004 15 319 324 Bernabei et al Ann. Thorac. Surg. 1995 59 149 153 Gainza et al J. Nephrol. 2006 19 648 655. 

The IP receptor agonists disclosed herein provide beneficial improvement in microcirculation to patients in need of antiplatelet therapy by antagonizing the vasoconstrictive products of the aggregating platelets in for example and not limited to the indications described above.

Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides methods for reducing platelet aggregation in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In further embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating coronary artery disease myocardial infarction transient ischemic attack angina stroke atrial fibrillation or a symptom of any of the foregoing in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein.

In further embodiments the present invention provides methods for reducing risk of blood clot formation in an angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery patient or a patient suffering from atrial fibrillation comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein at a time where such risk exists.

Atherosclerosis is a complex disease characterized by inflammation lipid accumulation cell death and fibrosis. It is the leading cause of mortality in many countries including the United States. Atherosclerosis as the term is used herein shall be understood to encompass disorders of large and medium sized arteries that result in the progressive accumulation within the intima of smooth muscle cells and lipids.

It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can confer protection from atherosclerosis such as from atherothrombosis Arehart et al Curr. Med. Chem. 2007 14 2161 2169 Stitham et al Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2007 82 95 108 Fries et al Hematology Am. Soc. Hematol. Educ. Program 2005 445 451 Egan et al Science 2004 306 1954 1957 Kobayashi et al J. Clin. Invest 2004 114 784 794 Arehart et al Circ. Res. 2008 Mar. 6 . It has been shown that defective IP receptor signaling appears to accelerate atherothrombosis in humans i e that an agonist of the IP receptor can confer protection from atherothrombosis in humans Arehart et al Circ. Res. 2008 Mar. 6. 

The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein are useful in the treatment of atherosclerosis and the treatment of the symptoms thereof. Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating atherosclerosis in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In further embodiments methods are provided for treating a symptom of atherosclerosis in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein.

Asthma is a lymphocyte mediated inflammatory airway disorder characterised by airway eosinophilia increased mucus production by goblet cells and structural remodeling of the airway wall. The prevalence of asthma has dramatically increased worldwide in recent decades. It has been shown that genetic deficiency of the IP receptor in mice augments allergic airway inflammation Takahashi et al Br J Pharmacol 2002 137 315 322 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can suppress not only the development of asthma when given during the sensitization phase but also the cardinal features of experimental asthma when given during the challenge phase Idzko et al J. Clin. Invest. 2007 117 464 72 Nagao et al Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 2003 29 314 320 at least in part through markedly interfering with the function of antigen presenting dendnuc cells within the airways Idzko et al. J. Clin. Invest. 2007 117 464 472 Zhou et al J. Immunol. 2007 178 702 710 Jaffar et al. J. Immunol. 2007 179 6193 6203 Jozefowski et al Int. Immunopharmacol. 2003 3 865 878 . These cells are crucial for both the initiation and the maintenance phases of allergic asthma as depletion of airway dendritic cells during secondary challenge in sensitized mice abolished all characteristic features of asthma an effect that could be completely restored by adoptive transfer of wild type dendritic cells van Rijt et al. J. Exp. Med. 2005 201 981 991 . It has also been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit proinflammatory cytokine secretion by human alveolar macrophages Raychaudhuri et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2002 277 33344 33348 . The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein are useful in the treatment of asthma and the treatment of the symptoms thereof. Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating asthma in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising IP receptor agonist disclosed herein.

In further embodiments methods are provided for treating a symptom of asthma in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising IP receptor agonist disclosed herein.

 COPD . Taprostene an IP receptor agonist suppressed the generation of the CD8 T cell chemoattractants CXCL9 and CXCL10 from human airway epithelial cells in vitro. Ayer L. M. S. M. Wilson S. L. Traves D. Proud M. A. Giembycz. 2008. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 324 815 826. Beraprost an IP receptor agonist protected rats against the development of experimental cigarette smoke induced emphysema possibly by means of a concerted inhibitory action on alveolar epithelial cell apoptosis oxidative burden matrix metalloproteinase expression and proinflammatory cytokine generation. Chen Y M. Hanaoka P. Chen Y. Droma N. F. Voelkel K. Kubo. 2009296 L648 L656. 

In further embodiments methods are provided for treating COPD in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising IP receptor agonist disclosed herein.

Although hyperglycemia is the major cause for the pathogenesis of diabetic complications such as diabetic peripheral neuropathy DPN diabetic nephropathy DN and diabetic retinopathy DR enhanced vasoconstriction and platelet aggregation in diabetic patients has also been implicated to play a role in disease progression Cameron et al. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. Pharmacol. 2003 367 607 614 . Agonists of the IP receptor promote vasodilation and inhibit platelet aggregation. Improving microvascular blood flow is able to benefit diabetic complications Cameron Diabetologia 2001 44 1973 1988 .

It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can prevent and reverse motor and sensory peripheral nerve conduction abnormalities in streptozotocin diabetic rats Cotter et al. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch. Pharmacol. 1993 347 534 540 . Further evidence for the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor in the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy is given by Hotta et al. Diabetes 1996 45 361 366 Ueno et al. Jpn. J. Pharmacol. 1996 70 177 182 Ueno et al. Life Sci. 1996 59 PL1O5 PL110 Hotta et al. Prostaglandins 1995 49 339 349 Shindo et al. Prostaglandins 1991 41 85 96 Okuda et al. Prostaglandins 1996 52 375 384 and Koike et al. FASEB J. 2003 17 779 781 .

Evidence for the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor in the treatment of diabetic nephropathy is given by Owada et al. Nephron 2002 92 788 796 and Yamashita et al. Diabetes Res. Clin. Pract. 2002 57 149 161 . Evidence for the beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy is given by Yamagishi et al. Mol. Med. 2002 8 546 550 Burnette et al. Exp. Eye Res. 2006 83 1359 1365 and Hotta et al. Diabetes 1996 45 361 366 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce increased tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF alpha levels in diabetic patients implying that an agonist of the IP receptor may contribute to the prevention of progression in diabetic complications Fujiwara et al Exp. Clin. Endocrinol. Diabetes 2004 112 390 394 .

Evidence that topical administration of an agonist of the IP receptor can result in a decrease in intraocular pressure IOP in rabbits and dogs and thereby have beneficial effect in the treatment of glaucoma is given by Hoyng et al Hoyng et al Invest. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci. 1987 28 470 476 .

Agonists of the IP receptor have been shown to have activity for regulation of vascular tone for vasodilation and for amelioration of pulmonary hypertension see e.g. Strauss et al Clin Chest Med 2007 28 127 142 Driscoll et al Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2008 9 65 81 .

Evidence for a beneficial effect of an agonist of the IP receptor in the treatment of hypertension is given by Yamada et al. Peptides 2008 29 412 418 . Evidence that an agonist of the IP receptor can protect against cerebral ischemia is given by Dogan et al. Gen. Pharmacol. 1996 27 1163 1166 and Fang et al J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 2006 26 491 501 .

Anti inflammation agents are prescribed for a variety of conditions. For example in an inflammatory disease they are used to interfere with and thereby reduce an underlying deleterious.

There is evidence that an IP receptor agonist can inhibit inflammation and thus be a potential treatment as an anti inflammation therapy. It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit pro inflammatory cytokine and chemokine interleukin 12 IL 12 tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF alpha DL I alpha EL 6 macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha MIP I alpha monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 MCP I production and T cell stimulatory function of dendritic cells Jozefowski et al Int. Immunopharmacol. 2003 865 878 Zhou et al J. Immunol. 2007 178 702 710 Nagao et al Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 2003 29 314 320 Idzko et al J. Clin. Invest. 2007 117 464 472 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit pro inflammatory cytokine TNF alpha IL 1 3 EL 6 granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor GM CSF production by macrophages Raychaudhuri et al J. Biol. Chem. 2002 277 33344 33348 Czeslick et al Eur. J. Clin. Invest. 2003 33 1013 1017 Di Renzo et al Prostaglandin Leukot. Essent. Fatty Acids 2005 73 405 410 Shinomiya et al Biochem. Pharmacol. 2001 61 1153 1160 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can stimulate anti inflammatory cytokine DL IO production by dendritic cells Jozefowski et al Int. Immunopharmacol. 2003 865 878 Zhou et al J. Immunol. 2007 178 702 710 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can stimulate anti inflammatory cytokine DL 10 production by macrophages Shinomiya et al Biochem. Pharmacol. 2001 61 1153 1160 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit a chemokine CCL 17 induced chemotaxis of leukocytes CD4Th2 T cells Jaffar et al J. Immunol. 2007 179 6193 6203 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can confer protection from atherosclerosis such as from atherothrombosis Arehart et al Curr. Med. Chem. 2007 14 2161 2169 Stitham et al Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2007 82 95 108 Fries et al Hematology Am. Soc. Hematol. Educ. Program 2005 445 451 Egan et al Science 2004 306 1954 1957 Kobayashi et al J. Clin. Invest. 2004 114 784 794 Arehart et al Circ. Res. 2008 Mar. 6 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can attenuate asthma Idzko et al J. Clin. Invest. 2007 117 464 472 Jaffar et al J. Immunol. 2007 179 6193 6203 Nagao et al Am. J. Respir. Cell. Mol. Biol. 2003 29 314 320 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can decrease TNF alpha production in type 2 diabetes patients Fujiwara et al Exp. Clin. Endocrinol. Diabetes 2004 112 390 394 Goya et al Metabolism 2003 52 192 198 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit ischemia reperfusion injury Xiao et al Circulation 2001 104 2210 2215 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit restenosis Cheng et al Science 2002 296 539 541 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can attenuate pulmonary vascular injury and shock in a rat model of septic shock Harada et al Shock 2008 Feb. 21 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce the serum levels of TNF alpha in vivo in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and this is associated with improvement in the clinical course of the disease Gao et al Rheumatol. Int. 2002 22 45 51 Boehme et al Rheumatol. Int. 2006 26 340 347 .

The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein provide beneficial reduction of inflammation. The compounds as defined in the first aspect disclosed herein provide beneficial reduction of a deleterious inflammatory response associated with an inflammatory disease. Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides methods for reducing inflammation in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for decreasing IL 12 TNF alpha IL I alpha IL IjS BL 6 MIP la or MCP I production in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for decreasing TNF alpha production in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for increasing EL IO production in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for reducing a deleterious inflammatory response associated with an inflammatory disease in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating an inflammatory disease or a symptom thereof in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating an inflammatory disease or a symptom thereof in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein. In some embodiments the present invention provides methods for treating an inflammatory disease or a symptom thereof in a patient in need of the treatment comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising an IP receptor agonist disclosed herein wherein the inflammatory disease is selected from the group consisting of psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis Crohn s disease transplant rejection multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE ulcerative colitis ischemia reperfusion injury restenosis atherosclerosis acne diabetes including type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes sepsis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD and asthma.

PGI2 signaling has been shown to play a beneficial role in fibrotic diseases of various organs including kidney heart lung skin pancreas and liver as well as in systemic sclerosis and associated pathologies. It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can ameliorate cardiac fibrosis Chan E C et al 2010 . April 18 Hirata Y et al 2009 63 10 781 6 Kaneshige T et al 2007 69 12 1271 6 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can attenuate renal fibrosis Takenaka M et al 2009 Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 80 5 6 263 7 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can protect against pulmonary fibrosis in a bleomycin model Zhu Y et al 2010 20 11 1 34 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can suppress the production of connective tissue growth factor a key mediator of fibrosis in scleroderma patients Stratton R et al 2001 108 2 241 50 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce the incidence of digital ulcerations in patients with systemic sclerosis M. Vayssairat 1999 26 2173 2178. It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce fingertip necrosis in infants with refractory Renaud s phenomenon Shouval D S et al 2008 26 3 Suppl 49 5105 7 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce markers of endothelial activation in patients with systemic sclerosis Rehberger P et al 2009 89 3 245 9. . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can reduce severity frequency and duration of Raynaud s attacks in patients with systemic sclerosis Torlay et al 1991 50 800 804 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can improve portal hemodynamics in patients with systemic sclerosis and Raynaud s phenomenon Zardi et al 2006 20 3 377 80 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can inhibit the progression of pancreatic fibrosis in obese Zucker rats Sato et al 2010 59 4 1092 100 .

The IP receptor agonists disclosed herein provide beneficial anti fibrotic effects to patients suffering from fibrosis of the kidney heart lung skin pancreas and liver which can be idiopathic or secondary to chronic inflammation and systemic sclerosis for example and are not limited to the indications described above.

In addition there is substantial evidence that an agonist of the IP receptor can improve kidney function in acute and chronic renal failure. It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can restore kidney function in endotoxemia related acute renal failure Johannes T et al 2009 37 4 1423 32 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can improve renal function in a model of renal ischemia reperfusion injury Sahsivar M O et al 2009 32 5 498 502 . It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can prevent contrast agent induced nephropathy in patients with renal dysfunction undergoing cardiac surgery Spargias K et al 2009 3 120 18 1793 9. It has been shown that an agonist of the IP receptor can improve renal function reduce inflammation and sclerotic changes of the kidney in a model for diabetic nephropathy Watanabe M et al 2009 Am J Nephrol. 2009 30 1 1 11 .

The IP receptor agonists disclosed herein provide beneficial improvement of renal function in patients with acute and chronic kidney injury and nephropathies secondary to dye contrast agents ischemia reperfusion injury systemic inflammation and diabetes for example and are not limited to the indications described above.

There is considerable evidence for a causal role of Prostacyclin deficiency in the development of preeclampsia Mills J L et al 1999 282 356 362 Walsh S W 2004 70 223 232 . The administration of an agonist of the IP receptor has been shown to lower blood pressure in a rat model of preeclampsia Zlatnik M G et al 1999 180 5 1191 5 .

The IP receptor agonists disclosed herein provide beneficial improvement of hemodynamics in patients with preeclampsia.

The IP receptor agonists disclosed herein may provide chemoprevention. Chemoprevention is the practice of using of drugs vitamins or nutritional supplements to reduce the risk of developing or having a recurrence of cancer. Oral iloprost Ventavis an analogue of prostacyclin shows promise as a chemopreventive agent for lung cancer. Data supporting IP receptor agonist chemoprevention was presented by Paul Bunn Jr. MD who is the executive Director of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer at the American Association for Cancer Research 102nd Annual Meeting showed that it significantly improved endobronchial dysplasia in former smokers.

PGI2 agonist including the compounds as defined in the first aspect are also useful as co therapeutic agents for use in combination with second agents such as organic nitrates and NO donors such as sodium nitroprusside nitroglycerin isosorbide mononitrate isosorbide dinitrate molsidomine or SIN 1 and inhalational NO compounds that inhibit the degradation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP and or cyclic adenosine monophosphate cAMP such as inhibitors of phosphodiesterases PDE 1 2 3 4 and or 5 especially PDE 5 inhibitors such as sildenafil vardenafil and tadalafil NO independent but haem dependent stimulators of guanylate cyclase such as in particular the compounds described in WO 00 06568 WO 00 06569 WO 02 42301 and WO 03 095451 NO and haem independent activators of guanylate cyclase such as in particular the compounds described in WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 compounds which inhibit human neutrophilic elastase such as sivelestat or DX 890 Reltran compounds inhibiting the signal transduction cascade such as tyrosine kinase and or serine threonine kinase inhibitors in particular imatinib gefitinib erlotinib sorafenib and sunitinib compounds influencing the energy metabolism of the heart for example and preferably etomoxir dichloroacetate ranolazine or trimetazidine antithrombotic agents for example and preferably from the group comprising platelet aggregation inhibitors anticoagulants or profibrinolytic substances active substances for lowering blood pressure for example and preferably from the group comprising calcium antagonists angiotensin II antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors aldosterone synthase inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists Rho kinase inhibitors and diuretics and or active substances that modify lipid metabolism for example and preferably from the group comprising thyroid receptor agonists inhibitors of cholesterol synthesis for example and preferably HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or inhibitors of squalene synthesis ACAT inhibitors CETP inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbers bile acid reabsorption inhibitors and lipoprotein a antagonists particularly in the treatment of PAH or diseases and disorders such as those mentioned hereinbefore e.g. as potentiators of therapeutic activity of such drugs or as a means of reducing required dosaging or potential side effects of such drugs.

In particular an embodiment of this invention is a pharmaceutical combination comprising the compounds as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a second agent wherein the second agent is a PDEV inhibitor or neutral endopeptidase inhibitor.

The compounds as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be mixed with a second agent in a fixed pharmaceutical composition or it may be administered separately before simultaneously with or after the other drug substance.

Accordingly the invention includes as a further aspect a combination of an IP receptor activity with osmotic agents hypertonic saline dextran mannitol Xylitol ENaC blockers an anti inflammatory bronchodilatory antihistamine anti tussive antibiotic and or DNase drug substance wherein the IP receptor agonist and the further drug substance may be in the same or different pharmaceutical composition.

Suitable antibiotics include macrolide antibiotics e.g. tobramycin TOBI . Suitable DNase drug substances include dornase alfa Pulmozyme a highly purified solution of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I rhDNase which selectively cleaves DNA. Dornase alfa is used to treat cystic fibrosis.

Other useful combinations of IP receptor agonist with anti inflammatory drugs are those with antagonists of chemokine receptors e.g. CCR 1 CCR 2 CCR 3 CCR 4 CCR 5 CCR 6 CCR 7 CCR 8 CCR 9 and CCR10 CXCR1 CXCR2 CXCR3 CXCR4 CXCR5 particularly CCR 5 antagonists such as Schering Plough antagonists SC 351125 SCH 55700 and SCH D Takeda antagonists such as N 4 6 7 dihydro 2 4 methyl phenyl 5H benzo cyclohepten 8 yl carbonyl amino phenyl methyl tetrahydro N N dimethyl 2H pyran 4 aminium chloride TAK 770 and CCR 5 antagonists described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 166 037 particularly claims 18 and 19 WO 00 66558 particularly claim 8 WO 00 66559 particularly claim 9 WO 04 018425 and WO 04 026873.

Suitable anti inflammatory drugs include steroids for example corticosteroids. Suitable steroids include budesonide beclamethasone e.g. dipropionate butixocort e.g. propionate CHF5188 ciclesonide dexamethasone flunisolide fluticasone e.g. propionate or furoate GSK 685698 GSK 870086 LAS40369 methyl prednisolone mometasone e.g. furoate prednisolone rofleponide and triamcinolone e.g. acetonide . In certain preferred embodiments the steroid is long acting corticosteroids such as budesonide ciclesonide fluticasone or mometasone.

Suitable second active ingredients include agonists. Suitable agonists include arformoterol e.g. tartrate albuterol salbutamol e.g. racemate or single enantiomer such as the R enantiomer or salt thereof especially sulfate AZD3199 bambuterol BI 171800 bitolterol e.g. mesylate carmoterol clenbuterol etanterol fenoterol e.g. racemate or single enantiomer such as the R enantiomer or salt thereof especially hydrobromide flerbuterol formoterol e.g. racemate or single diastereomer such as the R R diastereomer or salt thereof especially fumarate or fumarate dihydrate GSK 159802 GSK 597901 GSK 678007 indacaterol e.g. racemate or single enantiomer such as the R enantiomer or salt thereof especially maleate acetate or xinafoate LAS100977 metaproterenol milveterol e.g. hydrochloride naminterol olodaterol e.g. racemate or single enantiomer such as the R enantiomer or salt thereof especially hydrochloride PF 610355 pirbuterol e.g. acetate procaterol reproterol salmefamol salmeterol e.g. racemate or single enantiomer such as the R enantiomer or salt thereof especially xinafoate terbutaline e.g. sulphate and vilanterol or a salt thereof especially trifenatate. In certain preferred embodiments the agonist is an ultra long acting agonist such as indacaterol or potentially carmoterol LAS 100977 milveterol olodaterol PF 610355 or vilanterol. A preferred embodiment one of the second active ingredients is indacaterol i.e. R 5 2 5 6 diethyl indan 2 ylamino 1 hydroxyethyl 8 hydroxy 1H quinolin 2 one or a salt thereof. This is a adrenoceptor agonist that has an especially long duration of action i.e. over 24 hours and a short onset of action i.e. about 10 minutes . This compound is prepared by the processes described in international patent applications WO 2000 75114 and WO 2005 123684. It is capable of forming acid addition salts particularly pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts. A preferred salt of R 5 2 5 6 diethyl indan 2 ylamino 1 hydroxyethyl 8 hydroxy 1H quinolin 2 one is the maleate salt. Another preferred salt is R 5 2 5 6 diethyl indan 2 ylamino 1 hydroxyethyl 8 hydroxy 1H quinolin 2 one acetate. Another preferred salt is R 5 2 5 6 diethyl indan 2 ylamino 1 hydroxyethyl 8 hydroxy 1H quinolin 2 one xinafoate.

Suitable bronchodilatory drugs include anticholinergic or antimuscarinic agents such as aclidinium e.g. bromide BEA 2108 e.g. bromide BEA 2180 e.g. bromide CHF 5407 darifenacin e.g. bromide darotropium e.g. bromide glycopyrrolate e.g. racemate or single enantiomer or salt thereof especially bromide dexpirronium e.g. bromide iGSK 202405 GSK 203423 GSK 573719 GSK 656398 ipratropium e.g. bromide LAS35201 LAS186368 otilonium e.g. bromide oxitropium e.g. bromide oxybutynin PF 3715455 PF 3635659 pirenzepine revatropate e.g. hydrobromide solifenacin e.g. succinate SVT 40776 TD 4208 terodiline tiotropium e.g. bromide tolterodine e.g. tartrate and trospium e.g. chloride . In certain preferred embodiments the muscarinic antagonists is long acting muscarinic antagonist such as darotropium bromide glycopyrrolate or tiotropium bromide.

Suitable dual anti inflammatory and bronchodilatory drugs include dual beta 2 adrenoceptor agonist muscarinic antagonists such as GSK 961081 e.g. succinate . and those disclosed in USP 2004 0167167 WO 04 74246 and WO 04 74812.

Suitable antihistamine drug substances include cetirizine hydrochloride acetaminophen clemastine fumarate promethazine loratidine desloratidine diphenhydramine and fexofenadine hydrochloride activastine astemizole azelastine ebastine epinastine mizolastine and tefenadine as well as those disclosed in JP 2004107299 WO 03 099807 and WO 04 026841.

Accordingly the invention includes as a further aspect a combination of IP receptor agonist with agents that inhibit ALK5 and or ALK4 phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3.

Accordingly the invention includes as a further aspect a combination of IP receptor agonist with second agents that are Rho kinase inhibitors.

Accordingly the invention includes as a further aspect a combination of IP receptor agonist with second agents that are tryptophan hydroylase 1 TPH1 inhibitors.

Accordingly the invention includes as a further aspect a combination of IP receptor agonist with second agents that are multi kinase inhibitors such as imatinib mysilate Gleevec. Imatinib functions as a specific inhibitor of a number of tyrosine kinase enzymes. It occupies the TK active site leading to a decrease in activity. TK enzymes in the body include the insulin receptor. Imatinib is specific for the TK domain in the Abelson proto oncogene c kit and PDGF R platelet derived growth factor receptor .

In an embodiment of this invention the IP receptor agonist of this invention are dosed in combination with a second active agent selected from phosphodiesterase V inhibitors neutral endopeptidase 1 inhibitors THP1 inhibitors multi kinase inhibitors endothelin antagonist diuretic aldosteron receptor blocker and endothelin receptor blocker.

In an embodiment of this invention the IP receptor agonist of this invention are dosed in combination with a second active agent selected from phosphodiesterase V inhibitors neutral endopeptidase 1 inhibitors THP1 inhibitors and multi kinase inhibitors such as PDGFR or c Kit.

In another aspect the invention provides a compound as defined in the first aspect in free form or in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt for use in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition responsive to IP receptor agonist activity particularly in PAH.

The agents of the invention may be administered by any appropriate route e.g. orally e.g. in the form of a tablet or capsule parenterally e.g. intravenously by inhalation e.g. in the treatment of an obstructive airways disease intranasally e.g. in the treatment of allergic rhinitis topically to the skin or rectally. In a further aspect the invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined in the first aspect in free form or in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt optionally together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor. The composition may contain a co therapeutic agent such as an anti inflammatory broncho dilatory antihistamine or anti tussive drug as hereinbefore described. Such compositions may be prepared using conventional diluents or excipients and techniques known in the galenic art. Thus oral dosage forms may include tablets and capsules. Formulations for topical administration may take the form of creams ointments gels or transdermal delivery systems e.g. patches. Compositions for inhalation may comprise aerosol or other atomizable formulations or dry powder formulations.

When the composition comprises an aerosol formulation it preferably contains e.g. a hydro fluoro alkane HFA propellant such as HFA134a or HFA227 or a mixture of these and may contain one or more co solvents known in the art such as ethanol up to 20 by weight and or one or more surfactants such as oleic acid or sorbitan trioleate and or one or more bulking agents such as lactose. When the composition comprises a dry powder formulation it preferably contains e.g. a compound as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof having a particle diameter up to 10 microns optionally together with a diluent or carrier such as lactose of the desired particle size distribution and a compound that helps to protect against product performance deterioration due to moisture e.g. magnesium stearate. When the composition comprises a nebulised formulation it preferably contains e.g. a compound as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof either dissolved or suspended in a vehicle containing water a co solvent such as ethanol or propylene glycol and a stabilizer which may be a surfactant.

Dosages of compounds as defined in the first aspect or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof employed in practicing the present invention will of course vary depending e.g. on the particular condition to be treated the effect desired and the mode of administration. In general suitable daily dosages for administration by inhalation are of the order of 0.005 10 mg while for oral administration suitable daily doses are of the order of 0.05 100 mg.

Compounds of and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts hereinafter referred to alternatively as agents of the invention are useful as pharmaceuticals. In particular the compounds are suitable IP receptor agonist and may be tested in the following assays.

Activity of compounds at the IP receptor IP receptor is assessed by measuring cAMP accumulation in CHO cells stably expressing the IP receptor CHO IP using the Perkin Elmer AlphaScreen assay. This technology measures the endogenous production of cAMP in a non radioactive luminescence proximity homogenous assay. A biological reaction occurs between streptavidin coated donor beads biotinylated cAMP and anti cAMP acceptor beads bringing the donor and acceptor beads close enough together so that upon excitation a fluorescence signal is produced. On production of endogenous cAMP competition between the biotinylated cAMP and cellular derived cAMP causes a reduction in the fluorescent signal. The reduction in signal is proportional to the amount of cAMP being produced thus it is possible to quantify the amount of cAMP being produced on stimulation with agonist.

Test and reference compounds are prepared at 100 final in 100 DMSO and diluted 1 3 using a Biomek Fx Beckman Coulter . This is followed by an intermediate dilution to give 5 final in assay buffer HBSS containing 5 mM HEPES 0.1 w v BSA . 5 L of 5 final test compounds reference compounds and buffer DMSO control are then transferred to a 384 well white OptiPlate containing 20 L CHO IP cell suspension 15 000 cells well prepared from frozen and plate is incubated at room temperature for 1 hour. A cAMP standard curve is constructed for each experiment concentration range of 10000 nM to 0.001 nM in assay buffer and 25 L of each concentration added to the last two columns of the assay plate. The incubation is terminated by the addition of lysis buffer dHO 0.3 v v Tween 20 containing 20 units mLstreptavidin coated donor beads and biotinylated cAMP pre incubated for 30 minutes and 20 units mLanti cAMP acceptor beads which are added to the lysis buffer just before addition to the assay plate. The assay plate is then incubated at room temperature in the dark for 60 minutes with gentle shaking and read on the Envision plate reader Perkin Elmer .

The raw data of the reference compounds test compounds and controls are converted into cAMP concentrations using the cAMP standard curve in Graph Pad Prism Graph Pad Software Inc . ECas well as maximal values of the agonist curves are determined using a 4 parameter logistic equation. The maximum response values of all test compounds are determined using the top of the treprostinil concentration response curve.

Compounds of the Examples herein below generally have ECvalues in the data measurements described above below 5 M. Table 1 provides a list of representative compounds with their ECvalue.

The exemplified compounds may be prepared as described below or according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 WO 2012 007539 .

Mass spectra were acquired on LC MS SFC MS or GC MS systems using electrospray chemical and electron impact ionization methods from a range of instruments of the following configurations Agilent 1100 HPLC systems with an Agilent 6110 Mass Spectrometer or Micromass Platform Mass Spectrometer or Thermo LTQ Mass Spectrometer a Waters Acquity UPLC system with SQD Mass Spectrometer a Waters FractionLynx HPLC system with 3100 Mass Spectrometer a Waters UPC2 system with TQD Mass Spectrometer or a Waters Prep100 SFC MS system with SQD2 Mass Spectrometer. M H refers to protonated molecular ion of the chemical species. Some M H are a mass unit higher than expected due to saturation of the Mass Spec signal response. Due to this mass unit resolution was lost and the reporting of the result via centroid mode led to the carbon 13 isotope being reported rather than the carbon 12 isotope.

NMR spectra were run on Bruker AVANCE 400 MHz or 500 MHz NMR spectrometers using ICON NMR under TopSpin program control. Spectra were measured at 298K unless indicated otherwise and were referenced relative to the solvent resonance.

The following examples are intended to illustrate the invention and are not to be construed as being limitations thereon. Temperatures are given in degrees centigrade. If not mentioned otherwise all evaporations are performed under reduced pressure preferably between about 15 mm Hg and 100 mm Hg 20 133 mbar . The structure of final products intermediates and starting materials is confirmed by standard analytical methods e.g. microanalysis and spectroscopic characteristics e.g. MS IR NMR. Abbreviations used are those conventional in the art. If not defined the terms have their generally accepted meanings.

Referring to the examples that follow compounds of the preferred embodiments were synthesized using the methods described herein or other methods which are known in the art.

The various starting materials intermediates and compounds of the preferred embodiments may be isolated and purified where appropriate using conventional techniques such as precipitation filtration crystallization evaporation distillation and chromatography. Unless otherwise stated all starting materials are obtained from commercial suppliers and used without further purification. Salts may be prepared from compounds by known salt forming procedures.

It should be understood that the organic compounds according to the preferred embodiments may exhibit the phenomenon of tautomerism. As the chemical structures within this specification can only represent one of the possible tautomeric forms it should be understood that the preferred embodiments encompasses any tautomeric form of the drawn structure.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 150 4.6 mm gradient A 0.01 TFA in water B acetonitrile methanol 1 1 0 1 min 70 A 30B 1 6 min 30A 100B 6 10 min 0A 30B 10 12 min 70A 30B flow 1.0 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 150 4.6 mm gradient A 0.01 TFA in water B acetonitrile methanol 1 1 0 1 min 95A 05B 1 6 min 95A 100B 6 10 min 0A 05B 10 12 min 95A 05B flow 1.0 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 250 4.6 mm isocratic 98 02 A B A 5 mM Ammonium Acetate B methanol Flow 0.8 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 150 4.6 mm gradient A 5 mM Ammonium Acetate B acetonitrile 0 1 min 70A 30B 1 6 min 30A 100B 6 10 min 0A 30B 10 12 min 70A 30B Flow 1.0 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 150 4.6 mm gradient A 0.01 TFA in water B acetonitrile methanol 1 1 0 1 min 70A 30B 1 2 min 30A 100B 2 8 min 0A 100B 8 10 min 0A 30B 10 12 min 70A 30B flow 1.0 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 1200 series Column Zorbax XDB C18 5 150 4.6 mm gradient A 5 mM Ammonium Acetate B acetonitrile 0 1 min 70A 30B 1 2 min 30A 100B 2 8 min 0A 100B 8 10 min 0A 30B 10 12 min 70A 30B flow 1.0 ml min column temperature 40 C.

Agilent 1100 series LC MSD column Mercury MS Synergi 2 20 4.0 mm gradient A 0.1 formic acid in water B acetonitrile 0 0.5 min 70A 30B 1.5 2.4 min 5A 95B 2.5 3.0 min 70A 30B flow 2.0 ml min column temperature 30 C.

Agilent 1100 series LC MSD column Mercury MS Synergi 2 20 4.0 mm gradient A 0.1 formic acid in water B acetonitrile 0 0.5 min 30A 70B 1.5 2.4 min 100B 0A 2.5 3.0 min 30A 70B flow 2.0 ml min column temperature 30 C.

API 2000 LC MS MS MS column Mercury MS Synergi 2 20 4.0 mm gradient A 0.1 formic acid in water B acetonitrile 0 0.5 min 70A 30B 1.5 2.4 min 5A 95B 2.5 3.0 min 70A 30B flow 2.0 ml min column temperature 30 C.

Di tert butyl dicarbonate 5.52 ml 23.78 mmol in THF 100 ml was treated with 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate B 5 g 15.85 mmol followed by 4 dimethylaminopyridine 0.194 g 1.585 mmol . The suspension was stirred at room temperature for two days and then stirred at reflux for 4 hours. The solution was cooled to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude solid was purified via recrystallisation from EtOAc 15 ml . The resultant solid was filtered and washed with 1 3 EtOAc iso hexane 40 ml to afford the titled compound 

Tert butyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 1 500 mg 1.203 mmol in EtO 10 ml degassed with Nwas treated with 1 2 di dimethylamino ethane 0.400 ml 2.65 mmol . The mixture was cooled to 70 C. and treated with sec butyllithium 1.4M in cyclohexane 0.945 ml 1.324 mmol dropwise maintaining the temperature at 70 C. After stirring at 70 C. for 2 hours allyl bromide 0.115 ml 1.324 mmol was added and the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 16 hours. The resulting mixture was added dropwise to water 100 ml and extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure and purification of the crude product by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 10 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound as a cream coloured solid 

Tert butyl 6 allyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 2 97 mg 0.213 mmol in DCM 3 ml degassed with Nwas treated with ethyl pent 4 enoate 0.036 ml 0.255 mmol copper I iodide 4.05 mg 0.021 mmol and Grubbs II catalyst 9.04 mg 10.65 mol . After stirring at 40 C. for 4 hours the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and purification by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 10 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound as a brown oil 

tert Butyl 6 6 ethoxy 6 oxohex 2 enyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 3 88 mg 0.158 mmol in EtOH 3 ml was degassed with Nand treated with 10 Pd C 1.685 mg 0.016 mmol . The resulting black suspension was stirred at room temperature under an atmosphere of hydrogen for 16 hours. The resulting mixture was filtered through a pre packed 2.5 g Celite column eluting with EtOH. The filtrate concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound as a yellow oil 

Tert butyl 6 6 ethoxy 6 oxohexyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 4 83 mg 0.149 mmol in EtOH 2 ml was treated with 2M NaOH 0.223 ml 0.446 mmol and stirred at RT for 16 hours. MeOH 1 ml and 2M HCl 0.372 ml 0.744 mmol were added and stirring continued at RT for 16 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in water 30 ml . The mixture was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined organic extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was dissolved in EtOH 1 ml and treated with 2M NaOH 0.223 ml 0.446 mmol . After stirring at RT overnight the mixture was diluted with water 30 ml and the pH was adjusted to pH1 using 1 M HCl. The aqueous portion was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined organic extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure to afford an enantiomeric mixture.

Purification of the mixture by preparative LCMS 40 80 gradient low pH followed by chiral separation using Supercritical Fluid Chromatography afforded the individual enantiomers 

A yellow solution of 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 6 5H one prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 12.1 step 1 2.0 g 6.07 mmol and ethyl 7 bromoheptanoate 2.88 g 12.14 mmol in DMF 40 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere was treated with potassium carbonate 4.20 g 30.4 mmol and the resulting suspension was stirred at room temperature for 23 hours. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The extracts were washed with water 2 and brine dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure to afford a yellow oil. The crude material was diluted with ether 50 ml and washed with water 2 20 ml brine dried MgSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

A solution of ethyl 7 6 oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 2.0 g 4.12 mmol in MeOH 40 ml was treated with 1M sodium hydroxide 12.36 ml 12.36 mmol and the resulting solution was stirred at 50 C. for 1 hour. The solution was allowed to cool to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water acidified pH 2 with 1N HCl and the resulting suspension was extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound as a white solid 

A cooled 78 C. solution of 7 6 oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid step 2 100 mg 0.219 mmol in THF 5 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere was treated dropwise with lithium bis trimethylsilylamide 1M in THF 0.546 ml 0.546 mmol . The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 10 minutes and treated with acetone 0.100 ml 0.546 mmol in THF 2 ml maintaining the internal temperature below 65 C. Once addition was complete the reaction was quenched with sat. NHCl aq . The organic portion was separated and the aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 . The combined organic extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 10 MeOH in DCM to afford the titled compound 

1H NMR 400 MHz Chloroform d 7.34 4H m 7.13 4H m 4.26 1H s 4.12 1H s 3.34 1H s 3.06 1H s 2.91 1H s 2.37 3H s 2.37 3H s 2.33 2H t 1.74 2 m 1.66 2H br m 1.47 1.40 7H m 1.39 3H s 

The titled compound was prepared from 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 6 5H one prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 12.1 step 1 and ethyl 8 bromooctanoate analogously to Example 1.1 steps 1 and 2 

To a mixture comprising 7 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate D 0.1 g 0.291 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 2 ml was added molecular sieves followed by ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 0.15 g 0.874 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 10 minutes and treated with NaBH OAc . After stirring at RT overnight the reaction mixture was passed through Celite filter material and partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was washed with saturated brine solution dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum to afford the titled compound 

A 0 C. cooled solution of ethyl 7 7 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate 0.22 g 0.44 mmol in THF HO 4 1 5 ml was treated with LiOH.HO 0.072 g 1.76 mmol and stirred at RT overnight. A further 2 equivalents of LiOH.HO was added and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. for 4 hours. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous layer was acidified to pH 3 and partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated brine solution dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum. The crude material was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 10 EtOAc in hexane followed by preparative HPLC MeCN in water eluent to afford the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Example 2.1 by replacing 7 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate D with 7 methyl 2 phenyl 3 p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate CA 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Example 2.1 by replacing 7 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate D with 6 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate DA . The racemate was separated under the following conditions to afford the individual enantiomers 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Example 2.1 by replacing 7 ethyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate D with 6 methyl 2 phenyl 3 p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate CB 

The compounds of the following tabulated examples were prepared analogously to Example 2.1 from the appropriate starting materials preparations of which are described hereinafter.

To a solution of rac 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 8 yl acetate prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Intermediate HF 209 mg 0.560 mmol in DCE dry 10 ml was added ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 289 mg 1.679 mmol followed by sodium triacetoxy borohydride 356 mg 1.679 mmol . The mixture was left to stir overnight at room temperature under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The resulting mixture was diluted with water 20 ml and extracted with EtOAc 3 20 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was passed through an Isolute SCX 2 SPE cartridge and was loaded onto a primed with MeOH 20 ml SCX 2 cartridge. The methanolic ammonia fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound as a mixture with rac ethyl 7 8 acetoxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate The mixture was used in the next step without further purification 

To a solution of step 1 201 mg 0.379 mmol in EtOH 10 ml was added 2M NaOH aq 0.759 ml 1.518 mmol and the suspension was stirred at room temperature overnight under an atmosphere of nitrogen. Ethyl acetate 20 ml was added to the suspension followed by 2M HCl aq 3 ml to adjust the pH to pH5 6. The mixture was washed with water 20 ml and the organic portion was separated dried over MgSOand concentrated under reduced pressure to give a yellow oil solid. The solid was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 50 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound first eluted peak and rac 7 8 hydroxy 2 3 d i p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid

Chiral separation of rac 7 8 methoxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid Example 3.1 using Supercritical Fluid Chromatography afforded the individual enantiomers.

A mixture comprising 2 3 bis 2 4 difluorophenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate CC 310 mg 0.863 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 10 ml was added to ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 446 mg 2.59 mmol and stirred at RT for 15 mins. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 914 mg 4.31 mmol was added and stirring continued at RT for 3 days. The mixture was heated to 60 C. for 3 h and allowed to cool to RT. The resulting mixture was applied to a pre wet iso hexane Isolute cartridge silica and eluted with 20 33 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound 

Ethyl 7 2 3 bis 2 4 difluorophenyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 480 mg 0.931 mmol in THF 2.5 ml was treated with LiOH 178 mg 7.45 mmol followed by water 2.5 ml and stirred vigorously for 3 days. The mixture was acidified to pH4 5 using 5M HCl and extracted with DCM. The combined organic extracts were dried sodium sulphate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification was carried out on silica eluting with 20 25 TBME in DCM. The resulting product was further purified under the following conditions to afford the titled compound 

1H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 7.28 7.40 2 H m 6.88 6.96 2 H m 6.78 6.85 2 H m 3.65 2 H t J 7.20 Hz 3.55 2 H t J 5.31 Hz 2.98 2 H t J 6.32 Hz 2.23 2 H t J 7.45 Hz 2.08 2.15 2 H m 1.65 1.74 2 H m 1.55 1.63 2 H m 1.33 1.45 4 H m 

A mixture of ethyl 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate Intermediate EB 150 mg 0.371 mmol 2 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 97 mg 0.445 mmol and potassium carbonate 154 mg 1.112 mmol were combined in a microwave vial. Dioxane 2 ml was added and the flask was sealed and deoxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 . Pd PhP 42.8 mg 0.037 mmol was added the mixture was de oxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 and heated at 150 C. for 3 hours using microwave radiation. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure to give a brown residue. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 20 100 EtOAc in iso hexane followed by 10 MeOH in DCM to afford ethyl 7 3 chloro 2 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate 

Further purification was carried out by loading the mixture onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge and eluting with MeOH followed by 2M NHin MeOH. The methanolic ammonia fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and further purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 50 100 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford ethyl 7 2 3 bis 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate 

A solution of ethyl 7 2 3 bis 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 16 mg 0.034 mmol in MeOH 2 ml was treated with sodium hydroxide 1M 0.101 ml 0.101 mmol and the resulting solution was stirred at 25 C. for 68 hours. The solution was concentrated under vacuum and the residue was diluted with water and washed with EtOAc 2 . The aqueous was acidified pH 4 with 1N HCl and extracted with DCM 3 . The extracts were dried MgSO and evaporated under vacuum to afford the titled compound 

A mixture of ethyl 7 3 chloro 2 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate Example 5 step 1 86 mg 0.206 mmol p tolylboronic acid 56.1 mg 0.413 mmol and 2M sodium carbonate 0.309 ml 0.619 mmol were combined in a microwave vial. Dioxane 2 ml was added and the flask was sealed and deoxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 . Pd PhP 47.7 mg 0.041 mmol was added and the mixture was de oxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 and heated at 150 C. for 3 hours using microwave radiation. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure to a give a brown gum. The crude product was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge and eluting with MeOH followed by 2M NHin MeOH. The methanolic ammonia fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and further purification by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared from ethyl 7 2 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 3 p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 analogously to 7 2 3 bis 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid Example 5 step 2 

A mixture of ethyl 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate Intermediate EB 200 mg 0.494 mmol p tolylboronic acid Aldrich 73.9 mg 0.544 mmol and potassium carbonate 205 mg 1.482 mmol were combined in a microwave vial. Dioxane 2 ml was added and the flask was sealed and deoxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 . Pd PhP 57.1 mg 0.049 mmol was added and the mixture was de oxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 and heated at 150 C. for 3 hours using microwave radiation. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 20 100 EtOAc in iso hexane followed by 10 MeOH in DCM to elute the bis product. Further purification by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 70 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded a mixture of the titled compound mono adduct and the bis adduct 2 1 ratio .

A mixture of step 1 70 mg 2 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 73.7 mg 0.337 mmol and 2M sodium carbonate 0.252 ml 0.505 mmol were combined in a microwave vial. Dioxane 2 ml was added and the flask was sealed and deoxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 . Pd PhP 38.9 mg 0.034 mmol was added and the mixture was de oxygenated by evacuation Npurge 3 and heated at 150 C. for 3 hours using microwave radiation. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure to a give a brown gum. The crude product was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge and eluting with MeOH followed by 2M NHin MeOH. The methanolic ammonia fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and further purification by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared from ethyl 7 3 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 2 p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 2 analogously to 7 2 3 bis 6 methylpyridin 3 yl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid Example 5 step 2 

The compounds of the following tabulated examples were prepared analogously to Example 7 from ethyl 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 6 oxo 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate Intermediate EA EB step 1 and the appropriate boronic acid.

A solution of 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 6 5H one prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 12.1 step 1 500 mg 1.518 mmol and potassium carbonate 1049 mg 7.59 mmol in DMF 15 ml under Nwas treated with ethyl 9 bromononanoate 805 mg 3.04 mmol and stirred at RT overnight. A further portion of ethyl 9 bromononanoate 805 mg 3.04 mmol was added and stirring continued at RT for 3 days. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 3 dried MgSO and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound as a yellow oil 

A solution of ethyl 9 6 oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl nonanoate step 1 392.5 mg 0.764 mmol in MeOH 10 ml was treated with 1M NaOH 2.292 ml 2.292 mmol and stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove MeOH and acidified using 1M HCl. The resulting mixture was extracted with DCM and the organic extracts were concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound 

9 6 Oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl nonanoic acid Example 8 200 mg 0.412 mmol in THF 10 ml was stirred under Nfor 10 mins. Lithium pyrrolidinoborohydride 1M in THF 2.059 ml 2.059 mmol was added carefully and the resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 1.5 hours. The reaction was quenched with 1M HCl and the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting mixture was extracted with DCM and the organic extracts were passed through a phase separating column. The organics were concentrated under reduced pressure and purification of the crude product by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared from Example 1.1 analogously to Example 9.1. The racemate was separated under the following conditions to afford the individual enantiomers 

A solution of 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate B 2.0 g 6.34 mmol and ethyl 6 oxohexanoate Intermediate A 2.508 g 12.68 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 50 ml was treated with sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.36 g 15.85 mmol and the resultant suspension was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solution was treated with sat.NaHCOand extracted with DCM 3 . The organic extracts were dried MgSO and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge and eluted with MeOH followed by 2M NHin MeOH. The methanolic ammonia fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure and further purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 10 50 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound 

A solution of ethyl 6 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl hexanoate step 1 2.8 g 6.12 mmol in MeOH 50 ml was treated with 1M sodium hydroxide 9.18 ml 18.36 mmol and the resulting white suspension was heated at 50 C. for 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was diluted with water acidified pH 4 2N HCl and extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford an oil which crystallized to yield the titled compound as an off white solid 

7 7 Hydroxy 6 oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 16.1 was separated using SFC under the following conditions to afford the individual enantiomers 

1H NMR 400 MHz MeOD d4 7.33 7.23 4H m 7.15 7.07 4H m 4.58 4.51 1H m 4.25 4.19 1H m 4.17 4.11 1H m 3.46 3.39 1H m 3.25 3.16 1H m 2.34 6H s 2.26 2.19 2H m 1.76 1.72 2H m 1.61 1.54 2H m 1.48 1.36 4H m .

A mixture comprising 7 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 4.3 100 mg 0.225 mmol in dry DCM 5 ml at RT under nitrogen was treated with DMF 1.746 l 0.023 mmol followed by oxalyl chloride 0.022 ml 0.248 mmol . After stirring at RT for 2 hours DIPEA 0.157 ml 0.902 mmol was added followed by phenylmethane sulfonamide 154 mg 0.902 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at RT for 2 hours and subsequently added to water 30 ml . The mixture was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined organic extracts were passed through a phase separating column. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and purification of the crude residue by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 40 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded an orange solid. The solid was dissolved in a minimal volume of EtOAc and treated with an excess of iso hexane. The resulting suspension was filtered and the solid rinsed with iso hexane 3 the afford the titled compound 

The compounds of the following tabulated examples were prepared analogously to Example 12 from the appropriate starting materials preparations of which are described hereinafter.

A suspension of polymer supported carbodiimide 1.36 mmol g 60 mg 0.082 mmol in DCM dry at RT 2 ml under nitrogen was treated with R or S 7 8 Hydroxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 9.8a 25 mg 0.054 mmol methanesulfonamide 5.17 mg 0.054 mmol followed by DMAP 6.65 mg 0.054 mmol . The resulting orange suspension was stirred at RT overnight under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 20 ml and washed with 10 aqueous citric acid solution 20 ml 2 passing the organic portion through a phase separating column. The organic filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the crude material by chromatography on silica eluting with EtOAc iso hexane followed by further purification by SFC Chiralpak AD 250 10 mm 30 IPA afforded the titled compound 

The titled compounds were prepared analogously to Example 13.1 from rac 7 8 Hydroxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 Example 9.8 and phenylmethansulfonamide . Chiral separation of the racemic mixture using Supercritical Fluid Chromatography afforded the individual enantiomers 

The compounds of the following tabulated examples were prepared analogously to Example 13.1 from the appropriate starting materials 7 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Example 4.31

2 3 Di p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate B step 1 2 g 6.42 mmol was dissolved in THF 15 ml . The mixture was degassed by bubbling nitrogen through for 5 mins and 1M LiAlHin THF 3.21 ml 3.21 mmol was added dropwise at 5 C. ice bath over 3 minutes. BocO 2.98 ml 12.85 mmol was added in DCM 15 ml in a single portion and the reaction mixture stirred at RT overnight. A further portion of BOCO 1.4 g 6.42 mmol was added and the mixture was warmed to 40 C. for 3 hours. Aqueous potassium sodium tartrate tetrahydrate Rochelle s salt CAS 6381 59 5 10 ml 10 by wt was added followed by DCM 20 ml and the mixture was stirred vigorously for 10 min. The organic phase was separated washed with aq. Rochelle s salt 30 ml NaHCO dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield a viscous yellow oil. The oil was loaded onto a 120 g silica column primed with iso hexane using DCM and eluted with TBME iso hexane gradient 0 40 . The product fractions were concentrated under reduced pressure the afford the titled compound 

To a solution of tributylmethylammonium chloride 7.27 g 30.8 mmol in DCM 50 ml was added potassium permanganate 4.87 g 30.8 mmol portionwise over 10 minutes at room temperature. On completion the reaction mixture was allowed to stir under an atmosphere of nitrogen for 30 minutes and then cooled down to 0 C. tert Butyl 2 3 di p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 1 7.5 g 18.14 mmol in DCM 50 ml was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at 4 C. for 10 minutes. To this mixture was added a solution of sodium bisulfite 11.32 g 109 mmol in water 50 ml keeping the temperature below 10 C. The suspension was filtered through coarse Celite filter material and washed through with DCM 200 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer washed with DCM 50 ml . The combined organic portions were dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by flash chromatography using a 125 g silica column eluting with 0 10 MeOH in DCM. The product fractions were combined and evaporated to dryness. The resulting oil was dissolved in EtOAc approx. 15 ml . The resulting suspension was diluted with iso hexane EtOAc 2 1 20 ml and filtered to afford the titled compound as a pale yellow solid 

tert Butyl 7 8 di hydroxy 2 3 d i p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 2 1.28 g 2.86 mmol was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 50 ml . 1 1 Thiocarbonyl diimidazole 1.019 g 5.72 mmol was added and the solution heated at reflux for 3 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and evaporated to dryness. Water and DCM 300 ml were added. The organic layer was separated and evaporated to dryness. Ethyl acetate 5 ml was added to the dark residue and the resulting solid filtered off. The solid was washed twice with EtOAc 5 ml to afford the titled compound 

A suspension of tert butyl 2 thioxo 7 8 di p tolyl 3a 4 dihydro 1 3 dioxolo 4 5 4 5 pyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 9bH carboxylate step 3 14 g 28.6 mmol in toluene 400 ml was treated with tributyltin hydride 16.65 g 57.2 mmol and heated at reflux for 2 h. A further portion of tributyltin hydride 10 g was added and refluxing continued for 6 h. The reaction mixture was left stirring over night at room temperature. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness and the iso hexane 250 ml was added to the residue. The suspension was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature and then filtered. The solid was washed with iso hexane 3 50 ml to afford the titled compound 

A solution of tert butyl 7 hydroxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 4 500 mg 1.159 mmol in pyridine 3 ml was treated slowly with acetic anhydride 0.219 ml 2.317 mmol and the resulting yellow solution was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness and purification of the crude material by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 60 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

tert Butyl 7 acetoxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 5 210 mg 0.443 mmol was treated with piperidine 4380 l 44.3 mmol . The resulting pale yellow suspension was sonicated and then stirred at room temperature overnight. The resulting solution was added to water 100 ml and extracted with DCM 3 passing the organic extracts through a phase separating column. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and purification of the crude material by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 40 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

A solution of tert butyl 7 piperidin 1 yl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 6 90 mg 0.180 mmol in DCM 1 ml was treated with TFA 0.501 mL 6.50 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The resulting mixture was diluted with DCM 3 ml and washed with a saturated solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate. The organic portion was passed through a phase separating column and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound 

A solution of 7 piperidin 1 yl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 7 62 mg 0.156 mmol in DCE 5 ml under nitrogen was treated with ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 53.6 mg 0.311 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 15 minutes. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 132 mg 0.622 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 20 ml and washed with water. The organic portion was passed through a phase separating column and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the crude material by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

A solution of ethyl 7 7 piperidin 1 yl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 8 39 mg 0.070 mmol in EtOH 1 ml was treated with 2M NaOH 0.105 mL 0.211 mmol and stirred at room temperature overnight. The resulting mixture was added to water 30 ml and the pH was adjusted to pH4 by addition of 10 aqueous citric acid solution. The aqueous portion was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined extracts were passed through a phase separating column. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound 

To a solution of 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 8 ol Intermediate G 240 mg 0.695 mmol in DCE 10 ml was added ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 359 mg 2.084 mmol followed by sodium triacetoxyborohydride 442 mg 2.084 mmol and the resulting mixture was left to stir overnight at room temperature under an atmosphere of nitrogen. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 20 ml . The combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a brown oil. The oil was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with EtOAc in iso hexane to afford ethyl 7 8 hydroxy 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 3 2 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate Intermediate 15.1 . This compound was passed through a 5 g Isolute SCX 2 SPE cartridge primed with MeOH 20 ml and washing with MeOH 30 ml . The product was eluted with 2M NHin MeOH 20 ml . The basic eluent was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a 1 2 mixture of ethyl 7 8 hydroxy 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 3 2 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate compound ethyl 7 8 methoxy 8 methyl 2 3 d i p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 3 2 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate 

To a solution of the mixture of compounds from step 1 120 mg in Ethanol 5 ml was added 2M NaOH aq 0.478 ml 0.956 mmol and the suspension was stirred under an atmosphere of nitrogen at room temperature overnight. The resulting suspension was treated ethyl acetate 20 ml followed by 2M HCl aq 3 ml until pH 5 6 was reached. The resulting mixture was washed with water 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a yellow oil solid. Purification of the solid by chromatography on silica eluting with EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

rac 7 8 Methoxy 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoic acid Example 15 was separated under the following conditions to afford the individual enantiomers 

To a solution of 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 8 ol Intermediate G 290 mg 0.840 mmol in DCE 10 ml was added ethyl 7 oxoheptanoate 434 mg 2.52 mmol followed by sodium triacetoxyborohydride 534 mg 2.52 mmol . The reaction mixture was left to stir overnight at room temperature under an atmosphere of nitrogen and then water was added 20 ml . The product was extracted with EtOAc 2 20 ml and the combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO4 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a crude brown oil. Purification of the crude product by C18 reverse phase chromatography eluting with water acetonitrile afforded the title compound 

To a solution of ethyl 7 8 hydroxy 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 3 2 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 10 mg 0.020 mmol in EtOH 1 ml was added 2M NaOH aq 0.040 ml 0.080 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight under an atmosphere of nitrogen. A further portion of 2M NaOH aq 0.040 ml 0.080 mmol was added and stirring continued overnight. The resulting mixture was treated with 2M HCl aq to adjust the pH to pH5. The organic solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the mixture was diluted with water 10 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 10 ml . The combined extracts were dried over MgSO4 filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with iso hexane EtOAc to afford the titled compound 

A mixture comprising 5 hex 5 enyl 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate H 3.98 g 10 mmol and potassium hydrogen carbonate 5.01 g 50.0 mmol in EtOAc 50 ml was treated dropwise with dibromoformaldoxime 6.08 g 30.0 mmol in EtOAc 50 ml over 2 hours. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and then filtered. The filtrate was washed with 1H HCl water brine and dried by passing through a phase separator. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound which was used without further purification.

A solution of 3 bromo 5 4 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl butyl 4 5 dihydroisoxazole step 1 5195 mg 10 mmol in MeOH 5 ml was treated with NaOMe 10 ml of 30 solution by weight and heated at reflux for 2 hours. After cooling to RT the reaction was quenched with water 100 ml and the aqueous portion was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried by passing through a phase separator and were concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 60 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound as an orange oil 

A solution of 5 4 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl butyl 3 methoxy 4 5 dihydroisoxazole step 2 94 mg 0.2 mmol in MeOH 3 ml and water 0.2 ml was treated with boric acid 37.1 mg 0.600 mmol followed by Mo CO 6 37.0 mg 0.140 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at overnight. After cooling to RT the mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and diluted with DCM. The organic portion was washed with water and dried by passing through a phase separating column. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and purification of the crude product by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 60 EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

A solution of methyl 7 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl 3 hydroxy heptanoate step 3 43 mg 0.091 mmol in EtOH 908 L was treated with sodium hydroxide 136 L 0.272 mmol and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The resulting mixture was diluted with water 2 ml and acidified to pH 2. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried by passing through a phase separator and concentrated under reduced pressure to give an oil. The oil was purified by flash column chromatography using the ISCO combiflash Rf eluting with 0 50 EtOAc containing 10 MeOH in iso hexane on a 4 g silca cartridge. The product fractions were combined and the solvent removed under reduced pressure to yield the titled compound as a colourless oil 

rac 7 2 3 Di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl 3 hydroxyheptanoic acid Example 17 was separated under the following conditions to afford the individual enantiomers 

KBr 0.111 g 0.936 mmol in water 30 ml was treated with sodium bicarbonate 4.72 g 56.2 mmol . The solution was cooled ice bath and treated with a solution of 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl piperidin 1 yl oxidanyl 0.029 g 0.187 mmol in DCM 30 ml followed by sodium hypochlorite 1.387 ml 22.47 mmol and ethyl 6 hydroxyhexaonate 3 g 18.73 mmol . The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water and the organic portion was separated dried MgSO and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound

A solution of 1 2 di p tolylethane 1 2 dione commercially available 175 g 733 mmol and pyridine 2 3 diamine 80 g 733 mmol in EtOH 1609 ml and AcOH 179 ml was heated to reflux bath at 85 C. for 1.5 h. The mixture was allowed to cool and concentrated in vacuo. The crude material was dissolved in DCM 500 ml and filtered through silica to remove baseline impurities. The silica was washed with EtOAc 2 L . The combined filtrate layers were concentrated in vacuo to give a brown solid. The material was triturated in 1 1 TBME heptane 300 ml . The solid was removed by filtration and washed with 1 1 TBME heptane 200 ml before drying at RT over 2 days to afford the titled compound as an AcOH salt 1 eq .

A solution of 2 3 di p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 1 181 g 487 mmol in EtOH THF 1 2 2100 ml was treated with 10 palladium on carbon 30 g 28.8 mmol and the reaction mixture was placed under 0.1 bar of hydrogen at RT. After 2 days and 4 days respectively additional batches of 10 palladium on carbon 10 g 9.6 mmol twice were added along with EtN 85 ml 706 mmol twice . After 7 days in total the reaction mixture was filtered through Hyflo filter material and washed through with THF 2.5 L in portions . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give a green yellow solid. The solid was triturated with 1 1 TBME heptane 500 ml and filtered. The solid was washed with 1 1 TBME heptane 200 ml to give a pale yellow solid which was dried overnight to afford the titled compound 

A stirred suspension of 2 3 diaminopyridine 75 g 687 mmol in diethyl oxalate 291 ml 2131 mmol under Nwas heated to 120 C. After 1 h the ethanol was distilled off the reaction mixture and the temperature was elevated to 160 C. for a further 2 hours. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to RT and diluted with diethyl ether 200 ml . The resulting suspension was stirred for 1 hour and the solid was isolated by filtration and dried in a vacuum oven. The solid was suspended in ethanol 500 ml and sonicated for 1 hour. The suspension was filtered and dried vacuum oven overnight to afford the titled compound 

POCl 57.1 ml 613 mmol was added to pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine 2 3 1H 4H dione step 1 20 g 123 mmol and the suspension was heated at 110 C. for 8 hours. After cooling to RT the reaction mixture was added dropwise to stirred water at RT cooling with ice if necessary. The aqueous phase was basified by addition of a cooled solution of sat. NaHCO 4 L . The aqueous portion was extracted with EtOAc 2 2.5 L and the combined organic extracts were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to afford a solid. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 5 70 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound as a yellow solid 

2 3 Dichloropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 2 500 mg 2.5 mmol in dry dioxane 10 ml under nitrogen was treated with phenylboronic acid 305 mg 2.5 mmol potassium carbonate 691 mg 5 mmol in water 0.5 ml and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 144 mg 0.125 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated using microwave radiation at 100 C. for 1 hour. After cooling to RT the mixture was diluted with water 100 ml and extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over MgSOand filtered. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 30 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound as a solid 

2 Chloro 3 phenylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 3 175 mg 0.724 mmol in dry dioxane 4 ml under nitrogen was treated with p tolylboronic acid 108 mg 0.797 mmol potassium carbonate 200 mg 1.448 mmol in water 0.5 ml and tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 41.8 mg 0.036 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated using microwave radiation at 150 C. for 1 hour. After cooling to RT the mixture was diluted with water 100 ml and extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried over MgSOand filtered. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 30 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound as a yellow solid 

3 Phenyl 2 p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 4 179 mg 0.602 mmol under nitrogen in dry MeOH 5 ml was treated with ammonium formate 190 mg 3.01 mmol and 10 palladium on carbon 64.1 mg 0.060 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at reflux for 16 hours. After cooling to RT the mixture was filtered through Celite filter material and the catalyst was washed with MeOH and MeOH DCM 1 1 . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and dissolved in DCM 50 ml . The solution was washed with water 2 and brine 1 . The resulting organic portion was passed through a phase separating column and concentrated in vacuo to afford the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Intermediate C by replacing 2 3 diaminopyridine step 1 with 5 methylpyridine 2 3 diamine commercially available and by using the appropriate boronic acids in step 3 and 4 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Intermediate C by replacing 2 3 diaminopyridine step 1 with 6 methylpyridine 2 3 diamine commercially available and by using the appropriate boronic acids in step 3 and 4 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Intermediate C by using the appropriate boronic acids in step 3 and 4 

The following intermediates were prepared analogously to Intermediate C by using the appropriate boronic acids in step 3 and 4 

A mixture comprising 5 chloropyridine 2 3 diamine 1 g 6.9 mmol and 1 2 di p tolylethane 1 2 dione 1.6 g 6.9 mmol in EtOH 15 ml under argon was stirred at 70 C. overnight. The mixture was heated for a further 8 hours and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting crude material was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 5 EtOAc in hexane to afford the titled compound 

A mixture comprising 7 chloro 2 3 di p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine step 1 2.5 g 7.24 mmol ethyl boronic acid 0.748 g 10.14 mmol and KCO 2.9 g 21.73 mmol was degassed with argon and treated with Pd PPh 0.418 g 0.362 mmol . The resulting mixture was flushed with argon and heated at 100 C. for 12 h and heating continued overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulphate and concentrated under vacuum. Purification of the crude product by chromatography on silica eluting with 10 EtOAc in hexane afforded the titled compound 

7 Ethyl 2 3 di p tolylpyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 2 g 5.89 mmol in EtOH 5 ml was treated with Pd C 0.2 g and placed under an atmosphere of hydrogen. After stirring overnight the mixture was treated with a catalytic quantity of NaHCOand stirring continued under hydrogen overnight. The mixture was passed through Celite filter material and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Purification of the crude product by chromatography on silica eluting with 5 EtOAc in hexane afforded the titled compound 

The titled compound was prepared analogously to Intermediate D by replacing 5 chloropyridine 2 3 diamine with 6 chloropyridine 2 3 diamine 

A solution of 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydro 5H pyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 6 one prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Intermediate J 3.9 g 14.86 mmol and ethyl 7 bromoheptanoate 7.05 g 29.7 mmol in DMF 75 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere was treated with potassium carbonate 10.27 g 74.3 mmol and the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 4 days. The mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The extracts were washed with water and brine dried MgSO and evaporated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 60 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the titled compound 

7 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate A cooled 0 C. solution of ethyl 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 6 oxo 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate step 1 1.0 g 2.388 mmol in THF 10 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere was treated with borane methyl sulfide complex over 30 mins. The resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h 30 minutes and stored in a fridge overnight. The mixture was cooled in an ice bath and cautiously treated with MeOH 5 ml . The yellow solution was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude material was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford ethyl 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptanoate

LCMS Rt 1.10 mins MS m z 362 364 M H Method 2minLC v003 and 7 2 bromo 3 chloro 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 5 6H yl heptan 1 ol 

The titled compound was prepared from 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate B analogously to tert butyl 8 bromo 2 3 diphenyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Intermediate H 

The titled compound was prepared from tert butyl 8 bromo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate Intermediate F analogously to 2 3 diphenyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazin 8 yl acetate prepared according to the preparation procedures disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 Intermediate HA 

To a solution of tert butyl 8 bromo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate Intermediate F 5.95 g 12.03 mmol in chloroform 360 ml was added silver acetate 5.02 g 30.1 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour under an atmosphere of nitrogen and then filtered through Celite filter material washing through with DCM. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and purification by chromatography on silica eluting with EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound and tert butyl 8 acetoxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate as a by product 

To a stirred solution of oxalyl chloride 0.085 ml 0.973 mmol in DCM 20 ml at 78 C. under nitrogen was added a dropwise solution of DMSO 0.168 ml 2.373 mmol in DCM 10 ml . After stirring at 78 C. for two hours a solution of tert butyl 8 hydroxy 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 1 200 mg 0.463 mmol in DCM 5 ml was added dropwise and the mixture was left to stir for 15 minutes at 78 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen. Triethylamine 0.331 ml 2.373 mmol was added and after 5 minutes the reaction mixture allowed to warm to 18 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM 30 ml and was sequentially washed with 2M NaOH 30 ml water 30 ml and brine 30 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried using a hydrophobic frit and the solvent evaporated to afford the titled compound as a yellow solid 

To a solution of tert butyl 8 oxo 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 2 591 mg 1.376 mmol in THF 20 ml at 0 C. was added 1M MeMgBr in THF 5.50 ml 5.50 mmol . The mixture was left to stir at 0 C. for 30 mins under an atmosphere of nitrogen and then warmed to room temperature. After 1.5 hours the reaction mixture was poured into a saturated ammonium chloride solution 30 ml . The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 ml and the combined organic extracts were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product as an oil. Purification of the oil by chromatography on silica eluting with EtOAc in iso hexane afforded the titled compound 

A solution of tert butyl 8 hydroxy 8 methyl 2 3 di p tolyl 7 8 dihydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine 5 6H carboxylate step 3 310 mg 0.696 mmol in 4M HCl in dioxane 2 ml 8.00 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 30 mins. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and DCM. The organic portion was separated and the aqueous portion extracted with DCM 30 ml . The combined organic layers concentrated under reduced pressure to afford the titled compound 

Anhydrous dichloromethane 20 ml was cooled in a dry ice acetone bath and oxalyl chloride 5.47 mL 62.5 mmol was added by syringe. To this mixture was added DMSO 4.44 mL 62.5 mmol in DCM 30 ml . After gas evolution ceased the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes after which time hex 5 en 1 ol 3.00 mL 25 mmol was added. After a further 5 minutes triethylamine 17.42 mL 125 mmol was added and stirring continued for 15 minutes. The mixture was allowed to come to room temperature and a white solid precipitated. The mixture was washed with HCl 0.5M saturated NaHCOand brine. The organic portion was dried by passing them through a phase separator and used as a solution of the title compound in DCM in the subsequent step without further purification

Hex 5 enal step 1 solution in DCM 25 mmol was treated with 2 3 di p tolyl 5 6 7 8 tetrahydropyrido 2 3 b pyrazine Intermediate B 3.94 g 12.5 mmol . After stirring at room temp under nitrogen for 30 mins sodium triacetoxyborohydride 3.18 g 15.00 mmol was added and stirring continued at room temperature overnight. Water 100 ml was added to the reaction mixture. Once effervescence had ceased the organic portion was separated and dried by passing through a phase separating column. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the resulting brown oil was purified by flash column chromatography on silica eluting with 0 100 EtOAc in iso hexane on a 80 g silca cartridge. The combined fractions were allowed to stand at room temperature for 2 days. The resulting suspension was collected by filtration and dried in a vacuum oven. The crude material was purified by chromatography on silica eluting with 0 50 EtOAc in iso hexane to afford the title compound 

The following compounds may be prepared according to methods as described herein or as disclosed in PCT patent application PCT EP2011 062028 WO 2012 007539 .

