---

title: Creating and implementing scalable and effective multimedia objects with human interaction proof (HIP) capabilities, with challenges comprising secret question and answer created by user, and advertisement corresponding to the secret question
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus (“system”) that overcome the above-mentioned problems among others and provide an innovative solution aimed at creating an interactive, dynamic and effective multi-media object with HIP capabilities which may be used in online advertising, security, and user-defined security. The system leverages the existing HIP CAPTCHA real estate to create multi-media objects that guarantee a captivated audience, especially in online advertising. Combining interactive multi-media objects with HIP capabilities helps to meet a very critical need faced by advertisers and websites today—creating an effective impression of any multi-media object on a user (a guaranteed eyeball). Embodiments of the current invention introduce a variety of formats that involve interacting with a multi-media object to provide a more natural user interaction and ease of use while maintaining security.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621528&OS=09621528&RS=09621528
owner: 24/7 Customer, Inc.
number: 09621528
owner_city: Campbell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 566 690 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING AND IMPLEMENTING DYNAMIC INTERACTIVE AND EFFECTIVE MULTI MEDIA OBJECTS WITH HUMAN INTERACTION PROOF HIP CAPABILITIES filed Aug. 3 2012 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 515 636 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING AND IMPLEMENTING DYNAMIC INTERACTIVE AND EFFECTIVE MULTI MEDIA OBJECTS WITH HUMAN INTERACTION PROOF HIP CAPABILITIES filed Aug. 5 2011 and this patent application also claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 692 343 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING AND IMPLEMENTING SCALABLE AND EFFECTIVE MULTI MEDIA OBJECTS WITH HUMAN INTERACTION PROOF HIP CAPABILITIES filed Aug. 23 2012 the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

This invention relates generally to the field of multimedia objects and human interactive proof HIP technology. More specifically techniques are provided that involve interacting with a multimedia object to provide a more natural user interaction and ease of use while maintaining security.

The growth of Internet usage across different interfaces and devices has led to widespread adoption across all demographics. The number of websites is ever increasing and more financial transactions happen on the internet. Websites are widely used to provide users with a convenient means to order products such as tickets to access personal account information to open new email accounts to add content to existing content like comments on blogs uploading multi media content on websites or to access other services. These systems are not only convenient to website owners as well as to their users but they also reduce overall costs.

Unfortunately such systems can also provide a loophole through which hackers can obtain access to personal or other restricted data disrupt services poison existing content with irrelevant information declining the value of existing content consume all the resources of the website for malicious activities and distribute worms or spam. This is done commonly through the use of automated bots scripts and other malicious computer programs.

This has led to the development of Human Interactive Proof HIP technology. HIPs are challenges designed to be solved by humans so that they aren t discouraged from using a service. At the same time the HIP must be difficult enough to make the cost of developing or processing a malicious bot script to break it uneconomical and challenging. One form of such HIP which is widely used is CAPTCHAs Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart also referred to herein as captcha or captchas i.e. not in full caps . Captcha technology is a challenge response system as an attempt to ensure the response is from a human and this helps to isolate the human traffic from the malicious bot script traffic. Captchas are fast becoming pervasive across the internet as sites move towards collaborative user generated content making the need for distinguishing genuine users from bots and scripts and maintaining user privacy more critical. However captchas may not be very user friendly and occupy precious real estate without providing any monetization.

Online advertising has emerged as an important element of any advertising campaign. However the effectiveness of the existing ad formats such as online banner ads is far from optimal. Several banner ads on a webpage crave for attention and has led to a phenomenon called banner blindness. Banner blindness is a phenomenon in web usability where visitors or a website ignore banner like information. And web usability tests are regularly proving that knowingly or unknowingly the users are ignoring banner ads or images which appear in banner form.

Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus system that overcome the above mentioned problems among others and provide an innovative solution aimed at creating an interactive dynamic and effective multi media object with HIP capabilities which may be used in online advertising security and user defined security. The system leverages the existing HIP CAPTCHA real estate to create multi media objects that guarantee a captivated audience especially in online advertising. Combining interactive multi media objects with HIP capabilities helps to meet a very critical need faced by advertisers and websites today creating an effective impression of any multi media object on a user a guaranteed eyeball . Embodiments of the current invention introduce a variety of formats that involve interacting with a multi media object to provide a more natural user interaction and ease of use while maintaining security.

Embodiments of the invention provide a method and apparatus system that overcome the above mentioned problems among others and provide an innovative solution aimed at creating an interactive dynamic and effective multi media object with HIP capabilities which may be used in online advertising security and user defined security. The system leverages the existing HIP CAPTCHA real estate to create multi media objects that guarantee a captivated audience especially in online advertising. The idea of combining interactive multi media objects with HIP capabilities helps to meet a very critical need faced by advertisers and websites today creating an effective impression of any multi media object on a user a guaranteed eyeball . Also the current format of CAPTCHAs involve deciphering distorted text which is usually difficult to do and causes a break in the natural flow of the user s interaction with the web site.

Embodiments of the current invention aims to introduce a variety of formats that involve interacting with a multi media object to provide a more natural user interaction and ease of use while maintaining security.

Following is a summary list of features that are provided by one or more embodiments herein. Detailed discussion about each feature is provided hereinbelow.

It should be appreciated that the above cited list of features is not meant to be exhaustive and are for illustrative purposes for understanding embodiments herein.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to an architectural diagram of a system for generating and serving scalable and effective multimedia objects with human interaction proof HIP capabilities on a webpage or an application. A user opens a webpage or application from any device not shown such as but not limited to mobile tablet computer internet protocol television IPTV console or game console Step 1a . Webpage or application comprises a widget not shown which is configured to request an MMO and a challenge from an MMOS Step 1b which is a component of an engagement server . A description of an embodiment of the widget can be found in co assigned patent application Ser. No. 13 566 690 which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto. The user is presented with the MMO which has a challenge. For illustrative purposes only the webpage or application shows a video and an accompanying question Click on your mother in law in the video. After the user responds to the challenge the response is sent from webpage or application to a validation server of engagement server Step 2 . Validation server determines whether the response matches a stored validating response and sends an a success or failure message back to webpage or application Step 3 . When the message is the success message webpage or application sends an acknowledgement back to a challenge and response repository of engagement server Step 4 . When the message is the failure message webpage or application sends a new request to engagement server which specifically is received by MMOS until a predetermined threshold number of times of sending a new request upon failure is met Step 4 .

In an embodiment engagement server also comprises a VIIS . VIIS receives a request from MMOS for an MMO containing a video based on received filter criteria. Examples of such filter criteria are described hereinbelow regarding MMOs having or being video. VIIS finds a matching MMO with video based on the filter criteria or profile information and returns such MMO to MMOS .

In an embodiment engagement server also comprises an AS . AS receives any details and metadata regarding the request from MMOS and any details and metadata regarding the response from VS . AS is configured to store such informational data perform analytics on such informational data and provide results such as in report format on such analyzed and raw informational data. An exemplary AS is described in co assigned patent application Ser. No. 13 566 690 which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

In an embodiment engagement server also comprises a SUS 116. SUS 116 receives and records the occurrences of successful and failed responses from VS . The communication is bi directional should VS need to access data in SUS 116.

In an embodiment VS requests challenge and response data from challenge and response repository . The communication is bi directional and challenge and response repository may also request data from VS .

Typically the MMOs used to isolate malicious bots on websites have various modes of security to distinguish human traffic known as HIP. Standard HIP proof is implemented at the website level. However embodiments herein address the user level and uses the same MMO to identify a specific user and to distinguish HIP from bots. This user specific security HIP module UHIP which acts both as a HIP proof and also as a security mechanism may be implemented in the cloud or in an appliance. For instance a user defined video may be chosen to uniquely identify the user and also as the HIP proof the details of which are discussed herein.

For example a user uploads his her marriage video and tags people and interesting details about the people. This is used by a randomizer to challenge the user later on to prove his identity. In an embodiment the randomizer is a module which is part of MMOS and picks a random video id and question id for a specific user and such information is fetched from the database storage repository at a later point in time. For instance the user may be asked to please click on the brother s father in law or to click on the bride s grandmother and to type in her name.

1. A user goes to a website which needs to identify users uniquely. Also the website uses HIP to filter out non human traffic.

2. The user is presented with an option to upload a video of his choice. The video may be from various sources including but not limited to local computer cloud private repository public domain or network. On the video using any standard video editing software which is application software that handles post production video editing of digital video sequences on a computer the user may tag pertinent information at the frame level. The embodiment creates image maps at the frame level of tags of objects in the frame.

3. The video along with the tags are associated to the user s profile and stored persistently in a database.

One or more embodiments can be understood with reference to a sample flow of a video based HIP is created and associated to a user profile and as described hereinbelow.

Step In a User signup registration form the user profile details such as but not limited to UserID password address etc. are asked. As well an option is provided to upload video or other multimedia content in other use cases and to create secret questions and answers. Session information from the page is sent to MMOS to provide a unique id for the user.

Step A video file is provided and the file may be located locally or at any http URL. Along with such file additional images may also be provided. The system creates unique ids for the video and any images and associates such unique ids to the unique id of the user. The video file and the images information is sent to MMOS and the unique ids for video and images are created and assigned to the user id from the previous step.

Step With use of video editing software the individual frames or sections of the video are extracted and shown as a list to the user. The extracted frames or sections are assigned unique ids and associated to the unique video id from the previous step. The unique ids for the frames and sections are generated from MMOS after information from this step is sent. These ids are tied to the video id from the previous step.

Step The user chooses a specific section or frame and highlights a specific area or object in the image and tags it with a question and an answer for that question. For example in the figure in a particular frame the user may highlight the lady and specify Type the name of your mother and the corresponding answer would be Anne Paul . Another variation of the question for smartphones may be tap on your mother s face and the co ordinates from the highlighted section are stored as an answer. As well one or many question and answer sets may be created on a specific frame section of the video or across multiple frames sections of the video.

Step The data from step are submitted to MMOS. Unique question id and answer id are generated by MMOS and associated with the frame id of the video id from previous steps. All such ids are tied to the user id.

Following are further steps describing one or more embodiments for the serving process for user identification not pictured. 

MMOS also parses the requesting device information and has a preset list of device capabilities in the database such as but not limited to tap swipe gesture and audio capabilities of the device. MMOS uses the device information to choose the HIP e.g. questions see the example such as tap on your mother s face based on the device capabilities. It should be appreciated that such capability of MMOS is not limited to the discussion of and use of video but applies to requesting any MMOS with HIP capability from any type of device.

A session id is created by MMOS and information about the request such as time requested user id video id question id and device type are stored in the database about the session sent to the requesting page.

An embodiment of using a user specified video and its use as a challenge to identify the correct user can be understood with reference to a flow diagram. At step a user creates a profile on a webpage or application. The webpage or application has an GUI element for the user to choose to upload a video. At step the user uploads the video. As well the webpage or application is configured to allow the user to select video and in other embodiments other content from local repositories the public domain or private repositories. At step the user using video editing software is able to create tags at the frame level for the uploaded video. The system is configured to allow the user to creates tags at different frames within the same video. At step the video is stored in a video repository and the tags and related metadata of video frames and associated tags are stored in a metadata repository. It should be appreciated that the video and metadata may be stored in a single repository or in other embodiments such as the cloud and that the embodiment shown in is by way of example and should not be limiting.

In an embodiment a user specific security HIP module UHIP acts both as HIP proof and also as a security mechanism and may be implemented on the cloud or in an appliance. As well in this case a user defined video is chosen to uniquely identify the user and the user has an option to include one or more images along with the video. The images are stitched in the video and the resultant video is used to as a HIP mechanism. One skilled in the art would readily recognize that image stitching in the video can be performed by using various applications in the market and that image stitching processing does not need to be taught herein.

For example a user uploads his vacation trip video and tags many people and interesting details about the people. As well he uploads several images of his friends. The Video Image Integration Server VIIS may combine these two MMO types and generate a combined video. Such combined video may be used by the randomizer module to challenge him at a later time to prove his identity. For example such challenge may be please click on your friend who is standing in the line to take the roller coaster ride.

1. A user goes to a website which needs to identify users uniquely. Also the website uses HIP to filter out the non human traffic.

2. The user is presented with an option to upload a video of his choice. On the video he may tag pertinent information at the frame level.

3. Also he may have the option to choose or upload a single or multiple images. And for all these images he may define and associate user defined tags persistently in a database.

4. The video and the images along with the tags are associated to the user s profile and stored persistently.

5. The Video Image Integration Server VIIS combines this video with the images and generates a resultant video associated with this user which has the images and tags embedded. The combined video and created metadata are stored in the database storage repository.

A sample flow in accordance with an embodiment may be understood with reference to as further described hereinbelow 

Step In a User signup registration form the user profile details such as but not limited to UserID password address etc. are asked. As well an option is provided to upload video or other multimedia content in other use cases and to create secret questions and answers. Session information from the page is sent to MMOS to provide a unique id for the user.

Step A video file is provided and the file may be located locally or at any http URL. Along with such file additional images may also be provided. The system creates unique ids for the video and any images and associates such unique ids to the unique id of the user. The video file and the images information is sent to MMOS and the unique ids for video and images are created and assigned to the user id from the previous step.

Step With use of video editing software the individual frames or sections of the video are extracted and shown as a list to the user. The extracted frames or sections are assigned unique ids and associated to the unique video id from the previous step. The unique ids for the frames and sections are generated from MMOS after information from this step is sent. These ids are tied to the video id from the previous step. The user is presented an option to insert the individual images uploaded in the previous step between different sections in the video. In a standard video editing software a user may have options to split a video at different sections and add images and stich such sections and images together as one resultant video. Such capability is handled by VIIS for that session user id video id frame id and image id. The information is sent from the page to MMOS and to VIIS. After conversion into the resultant video the information is sent back by MMOS to the page where questions and responses need to be created.

Step The user chooses a specific section or frame and highlights a specific area or object in the image and tags it with a question and an answer for that question. For example in the figure in a particular frame the user may highlight the lady and specify Type the name of your best friend shown after the end of the roller coaster ride and the corresponding answer may be Anne Paul . Another variation of the question for smartphones may be tap on Anne Paul and the co ordinates from the highlighted section are stored as an answer. As well one or many question and answer sets may be created on a specific frame section of the video or across multiple frames sections of the video.

Step The data from step 4 are submitted to MMOS. Unique question id and answer id are generated by MMOS and associated with the frame id of the video id from previous steps. All such ids are tied to the user id.

Following are further steps describing one or more embodiments for the serving process for user identification not pictured. 

A flow of the process of stitching user specified video and user defined multiple images and using the resultant multimedia as a challenge to identify the correct user is illustrated in and an example is illustrated in . The system receives a video file for example chosen by a user. The system splits the video into randomly sequenced pieces . The system takes user defined images for example chosen by the user . The system determines associated challenges and responses e.g. type in and clickable hotspots for example as described in co assigned patent application Ser. No. 13 566 690 which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto . The system stitches the images e.g. pet pictures with the video splits or pieces and creates a new video file . Then the system associates this new video file to a profile e.g. a profile for the corresponding website a profile for the corresponding user etc. and uses this new video file as a security challenge . Thus on the illustrated webpage or application the goal is for the user to prove his has access to log onto the site e.g. a statement is presented Prove you are Manoj . Webpage or application also presents a video which has been previously stitched . An example challenge which is associated with the user is shown Click on the image when shown your pet .

In an embodiment secret questions and answers are shown to identify the user uniquely. For example the secret questions may be what is the model of your first car or what is your pet s name or which city were you born in . An embodiment associates these questions with certain ad types. Every time there is a requirement to show these secret questions interactive ads as MMOs from the corresponding ad type are also shown as part of the challenge. The combined challenge is used to serve the purpose of HIP mechanism and also to uniquely identify the user.

For example a website requires a set of secret questions to be answered by a user to uniquely identify the user. As above such questions may be what is the model of your first car or what is your pet s name or which city were you born in In this example the questions may be categorized as automobile pets and travel respectively for the questions mentioned. Thus every time these questions are posed there is an interactive ad from an automotive industry or a pet industry or a travel industry shown based on the corresponding secret question shown. Solving this interactive ad along with the answer to the secret question uniquely identifies the user.

1. A user goes to a website which needs to identify users uniquely. Also the website uses HIP to filter out the non human traffic.

3. The website may have a standard set of secret questions and these questions may be categorized under certain ad types.

As in the example above What s the model of your first car may be categorized under auto consumer ad categories and what s the name of your first pet may be categorized under pets family. This mapping of ad categories with the secret questions may be predetermined and stored in the database storage repository.

4. At the time of creating a user profile as in user signup or user registration the secret questions are asked to the user to provide the valid responses. These questions are presented as a predetermined list received from the database. The user provides responses and on submission the questions and responses are stored in the database and are associated to the user id of the user.

5. Next when the user identification is required and also when there is a requirement to filter out no human traffic HIP the user is posed with the secret question. Along with the secret question he is also posed to interact with the MMO as part of HIP requirement. MMOS checks the database for the questions for the user id. The questions returned cause the system to look up the ad categories associated with the question. An interactive ad may be fetched for the category and the user profile data for the user id question data from the question id and the ad data for the ad are provided by MMOS.

6. The webpage displays the interactive ad as a challenge in a HIP form e.g. type in video and audio and has a placeholder attribute to capture the user response. Examples of user responses may include but are not limited to the text entered as a response the attributes of a click the co ordinates of the drag and drop action on the MMO the response from haptic technology on supporting devices and touch and tactile sensors on supporting devices. This is in addition to the secret question which also reeds to be answered.

7. The user interacts with the video and the interaction attributes are sent to the validation server VS . Examples of interaction attributes may include but are not limited to the text entered as a response the attributes of a click the co ordinates of the drag and drop action on the MMO the haptic technology on supporting devices and touch and tactile sensors on supporting devices such as but not limited to touch screen monitors computers smart phones game consoles.

8. The Validation Server VS validates the response attributes to the challenge served for the MMO and verifies with the dataset for a possible match.

9. When the response satisfies the challenge a success message is sent to the webpage by the MMOS and statistics about the request is sent to the AS. Examples of such statistics may include but are not limited to the timestamp website which requested user details if exists and IP address.

8e1. When the response does not fulfill the challenge posed VS sends a failure message to the webpage and updates the SUS with the failed status.

8e2. The webpage indicates failure to the user and sends a request for a new MMO with a challenge to the MMOS when the threshold for allowable failures is still unreached.

8e3. The process then repeats at Step 4. Until the number of failures threshold is reached by the website or a success is met.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to which is a schematic diagram of two sample secret questions and their respective sample MMO with HIP enabled. illustrates how secret questions may be used to validate a user s identity and are classified with certain ad types. Every time the secret questions are shown corresponding ads are also shown and used as a challenge. Regarding the first secret question asks the user What is the name of your car and a text box in which the user can type in the name is provided . The user also is prompted to click on the car in the image and an image with a car is shown . The second secret question is presented and says What is your favorite food and a text box in which the user can type in the favorite food is provided . The user also is prompted to type in the name of the restaurant advertised and a corresponding advertisement is shown along with an input field in which the user can type in the name .

In an embodiment interactive multimedia object MMO serves hip features and a valid response may be a combination of response from the image itself and response dependent on the content where such MMO is being served. As such this is a multi phase validation using the content as one or multiple sources and the interaction as another source.

In an embodiment websites use MMO ads for HIP. In this embodiment the challenge posed by this type of MMO is split and the response is a combination derived from interacting with the image and also from the content being served.

For example a user may be challenged by a soda MMO ad which asks the user to type in the brand name in the ad along with the publishing date or author of the content where the MMO ad is being served.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a sample webpage or application demonstrating interactive multimedia MM serving HIP features in which the valid response for this is a combination from the image and response dependent on the content where the MMO is being served. Such example shows a multi phase validation using the content as one or multiple sources and the interaction as another source. A webpage or application contains an article about presidential selections and a place where a user may leave a comment about the article . The user is presented with an interactive MMO with accompanying instructions Click on the wheels of the car and type the published date of the article . A GUI element is presented for which the user to enter the published date . It should be appreciated that the correct date is Nov. 10 2000 which a bot would most likely not be able to detect.

In an embodiment web mapping software may be used widely by users and the usage may be becoming more prevalent with smart devices. It should be appreciated that embodiments herein contemplate using any web mapping software as is well known by people with ordinary skills in the art. Such web mapping technology may include the user tagging with information useful to the user and may be used as a security mechanism to uniquely identify the user as well as use it for HIP.

For example a website might ask the user to identify details such as the city where the user was born the place where he grew up the location of school where does he generally stop to fill up gas when commuting from work to home point out the location of the favorite restaurant when he was a kid the location of the dealer where he purchased his current first car and so on.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a schematic diagram of a webpage or application that uses web mapping technology to act as an interactive MMO that helps identify the user as well as serve the purpose of HIP. In this example the user is instructed to click on the street where he met his wife the first time.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to also is a schematic diagram of a registration webpage or application that uses web mapping technology to act as an interactive MMO that helps identify the user as well as serve the purpose of HIP. Two secret questions are asked of the user and the user responds each time by tapping on the street in interactive map at the correct location.

For example a website requires a set of secret questions to be answered by a user to uniquely identify the user. Examples of such questions may include but are not limited to Click tap on the map where you met your spouse or Tap on the street where you attended your kindergarten. In these examples maps are shown at the time of user profile creation which may be at the time of user signup or registration. The coordinates identified by the user may be stored in the database. Solving this interactive ad along with the answer to the secret question uniquely identifies the user. An exemplary flow in capturing and associating the data to a user id is as follows 

Step 1 In a user signup registration form user profile details such as UserID password address etc. are requested. As well a map interface is presented to create secret questions and answers. Session information from the page is sent to MMOS to provide a unique id for the user.

Step 2 Maps are shown on the client side along with the predetermined secret questions and illustrated in . The questions are from the database on the server side and are sent to the client by MMOS for that session id.

Step 3 The user inputs his profile and marks or taps on the map to mark the co ordinates which tie to the valid response for the secret question. The latitude longitude co ordinates returned from the map api be recorded by the client. The map api may be any industry standard api such as but not limited to mapquest api or google maps api. The co ordinates of the nearest intersection streets from the latitude and longitude co ordinates are recorded on the client side. These co ordinates and the user profile details are sent from the client webpage to MMOS along with the session id and user id for that session. Another variation of the map co ordinates are to obtain the latitude and longitude of the co ordinates of the tap click address mentioned and then specify a polygonal area in which the co ordinates are circumscribed. The polygonal co ordinates may be stored in the database.

Step 4 The details are stored in the database and the co ordinates are associated to the question and the user id. This information may be used to validate the user as part of the secret question validation.

Similarly when needed to be used as a HIP proof the specified co ordinates may be specifically asked by the secret question as Tap on the main street in the map to prove that you are a human and not a bot . The question and valid answer may be stored in the database and the validation of response is as illustrated in .

Multimedia objects MMOs can be misused in various ways. Humans or bots can interact with the MMOs to earn revenue and misuse online services. Multimedia objects can be directed to third parties to interact with the media objects for resolving human proof challenges.

Embodiments herein provide various methods to handle such misuses. One significant issue in designing such methods is to make the challenge scalable such that bots find it difficult to predict and recognize. However to increase media interaction and media engagement it also may be necessary to form a relationship of challenges with the media objects. It is desirable that either of these actions be done while keeping an easy usability.

In one or more embodiment various interaction techniques may be used to form such challenges which may be text based or non text based.

For text based challenge creation when metadata of the media is available the techniques used in accordance with embodiments herein use backend support such as search engines own devised web crawlers own database old media archives etc. to find relevant information to create challenge questions. For example when the metadata of the media is ABC Corp the system may find relevant ad slogans of ABC Corp from the Internet and create a challenge for users to input that slogan. The text may be presented in the form of HIP enabled images to make sure that bots find it difficult to recognize.

For text based challenge creation when only limited metadata is available the limited data are processed to bring out more sensible keywords to be used as meaningful metadata. Embodiments herein process limited or indirect metadata to a more meaningful metadata. The extracted information are then fed to the system s backend engine to find relevant information which may then be used to form challenge sets. For example the limited metadata for a media may only be a media redirect web link. The web link may contain several ids which may not make any direct sense to filter information. However the system s engine makes recommendations and ranks usable words appropriately based on high hit ratio and other ranking methodologies within temporal and spatial boundaries. One or more embodiments base the challenge question on the information retrieved. The data for text based challenges may be obtained from any search based api and the procedure may be similar to what is in the section Use of web mapping technology to act as an interactive MMO that helps identify the user as well as serve the purpose of HIP. In an embodiment instead of the map api search api may be used.

For text based challenge creation when no metadata is available an embodiment may also provide a method to perform image search of the media to find other similar media and its associated metadata. Those metadata are then processed to build challenge questions and are tagged with the media. This allows close association between media and the challenge question.

For non text based challenge creation when metadata is available one or more embodiments may suggest using image object search with the metadata. The metadata based information retrieval system uses intelligent machine learning based system to filter information which may then be used to form challenge and response pairs for the media.

For non text based challenge creation when no metadata is available one or more embodiments may suggest to use image search of the media to find relevant image to be used as a challenge. The response may also be framed using that information.

An embodiment for creating challenges that can scale for a media with HIP support can be understood with reference to a flow diagram of such process. A browser or web or mobile client browser sends a request for an MMO and challenge HIP . It is determined whether the request is for a text based challenge or a non text based challenge . When the request is for a text based challenge the system gets an MMO suitable for a text based challenge . Then the system determines whether the metadata available is sufficient limited or none . When the metadata available is sufficient control goes to challenge processing data . When the metadata available is limited the system goes to a metadata processing engine and asks whether it has data to use as a challenge and if no goes to a metadata finder engine and if yes goes to challenge processing data . When the metadata available is none the system goes to said metadata finder engine . The metadata finder engine determines whether there is sufficient metadata and when yes goes to processes challenge data and when no discards the MMO . After challenge processing data the system goes to validation processing engine and subsequently to an HIP formation engine and sends said MMO with said HIP to a client where the user finds the HIP and interacts therewith . After interaction with the HIP at the client a response or request is sent to VS and it is determined whether said response is valid and when yes said client receives a positive response and when no make a request to said browser to resend request for HIP . When said request is for a non text based challenge the system gets an MMO suitable for a non text challenge and goes to the step determining whether the metadata available is sufficient limited or none .

In an embodiment for image or multimedia based challenge creation a hybrid challenge model is provided and may be used to increase the uncertainty in the challenge. In the embodiment multiple layers of interactions may be added independently each layer acting as a challenge to the user. Multiple types of challenges can be accompanied together and can be processed independently of each other or can be combined with each other as well. For example a type in challenge model layer can be integrated with an additional and independent click based challenge model around the type in. Such embodiment makes the overall system very scalable and secure.

It should be appreciated that the system s capability for creating such challenges may also be scaled properly because such creations can be done independently. In an embodiment multiple servers can be involved in creating and caching multiple types of challenges and some of such challenges may be randomly picked to pose as an overall challenge to an end user. Such systems and type of challenge creation systems can be scaled by increasing the number of servers and running specialized thread or processes on different servers.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a flow diagram of a method for creating hybrid challenges and responses. A website or application browser requests HIP from a traffic analyzer which is configured to send complexity information about the HIP to a hybrid challenge and response generator . The hybrid challenge and response generator obtains two or more HIPs from any of a click type challenge and response generator a drag type challenge and response generator a type in text challenge and response generator and other types of generators . A combined HIP generator combines said two or more HIPs and the combined HIPs are served to a client. A user interacts with the HIP . After the combined HIPs are interacted with a request for validation is sent to said VS . It is determined whether the validation is successful or not . If yes a success message is sent to said webpage or application and when said validation is a failure a failure message is sent to said webpage or application when a refresh threshold is expired otherwise a request for HIP again is sent to the traffic analyzer and increment a refresh counter that is used to determine when the refresh threshold expires .

One or more embodiments define and provide different metrics to measure engagement on HIP media. Examples of such metrics are listed below. It should be appreciated that such list is exemplary and not exhaustive and that one skilled in the art may conceive of other metrics and still being within the scope of the invention.

An embodiment provides a component configured to provide noise in HIP which can be tied together with valid objects to confuse bots. In the embodiment the system creates a challenge by including various known images such as a book tiger plate and spoon with some unknown images which can be randomly picked. Such unknown images may be randomly picked by mixing certain textures of the known images or from any third party source. Such unknown images may bring enough noise and create more hurdles for bots to detect the correct image from all the presented images.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a schematic diagram of noise elements being added to increase the difficulty for bots to identify the valid objects. Known and unknown images may be mixed to create noise in HIP. Such technique adds an extra level of difficulty for bots to find valid objects. However the system keeps it simple enough for a human. Known and unknown images are determined by an intelligent image selector recognizing and storing known images in an image repository . Intelligent image selector executes a noise generator to generate unknown images having or being noise and stores the unknown images in a noise repository . A challenge and response generator combines images from image repository and noise repository to create the MMO and challenge HIP comprising known images and unknown images .

In an embodiment a challenge is asked to an end user and the response may be a translated version of the challenge or may be some closely related text. A response may be given by providing a translated text.

In an embodiment the system may be configured to provide an option by which the user is not forced to translate and instead goes to or chooses another type of response and challenge mechanism.

It should be appreciated that this kind of challenge and response system also creates more problems and makes it more difficult for the human farm a group of people who manually solve captchas and are involved in breaking captchas.

It should be appreciated that an embodiment may provide a utility to society by translating languages. In this embodiment image labeling may be done and confirmed using translated text. For example a challenge asked against an image may be to write the three most important things noticed in the picture in a local language. In the embodiment the response and related code may try to translate internally the local languages and match with other responses of other languages which are stored in the system. When the there is a match the response may be considered valid.

In other embodiments writing translated local keywords for an image may be augmented by other challenges to ensure that the responded answers are valid. As well more statistical approaches may be taken to confirm the translated text. For example a same image can be shown to multiple people and when the responses show via computed statistical analysis a positive pattern for the valid answer subsequently the image may be labeled with keywords from the multiple responses with higher probability of corrections.

In accordance with an embodiment the system may be configured to provide flexibility and control to use house media such as for example ads for the products owned by the company ads for the services of the company ads for the products of partners etc. Such house media may be ads or any other branding or promotional marketing campaign objects.

In an embodiment such house media may be used as HIP media. Challenges and responses may be associated by using any of the techniques mentioned herein. This embodiment enables enterprises such as but not limited to banks corporate websites etc. to brand their own product and services while providing value added spam protection services.

The system or components thereof may also be housed in the premise of the company or any entity that likes to use house media. This capability provides the company or entity more flexibility and control in using HIP media.

In an embodiment the system is configured to provide ways to increase the secured authentication process. In some of the prior art systems companies ask users to select an image and some random text for their account. The companies ask users to provide a password only when they see their selected image and text every time they login. They alert users not to provide the password if they don t see the image which they selected for their account. This helps companies to fight phishing issues.

One or more embodiment provides other capabilities to provide an extra level of authentication protection. For example the system may be configured to ask the user to select some challenges and responses for an image which he or she sees in his or her personal account. In this case users do not just see the image but act on it based on the challenge asked. In this embodiment all the challenges and response interactions are chosen by the user such that only the user himself is able to make the correct response. For example an user can upload an image of their childhood birthday party. The user can create challenges such as Who is my best friend Where is my mom etc. The response may be tagged to that image by various interactions such as text input click drawing etc.

In an embodiment users may upload multiple images and sets of challenges and responses to each image to personalize and make their account more secured.

This system helps the companies to validate the user interaction apart from the login and password. Because these interactions and challenges are very easy and personalized in nature these features may increase the authentication security to a higher level with a very minimal user impact and cost. With this process not only are companies able to prove themselves as genuine to the users users may also perform or take extra actions to prove their authenticity.

It should be appreciated that this embodiment of enhanced authentication agent may be very effective for the small screen and touch devices because interactions are very easy.

In an embodiment the system is configured such that such required interactions also may be sent to other devices which are capable of making interactions.

In an embodiment a component of the system allows flexibility to the user to pick the media source which can be converted to HIP media by the processing done in another component of the system. For example a particular image directory path is input to the system which enables the system to know from where the images can be picked and used as a HIP media.

In an embodiment such images may be split into pieces e.g. five programmatically and stored the correct order into the system as a response. A challenge may be created for the user to arrange the split picture pieces into an order which is more meaningful and complete. Any response is matched with the stored order and if it matches the system validates the response.

Similarly with text ads or other texts found in search engines and other web sites in an embodiment the system is configured to use the similar text ads and convert them into HIP. For example some portion of the text may be converted into handwritten style by adding some noise. Such types of conversion of the text may be used as a challenge part in HIP.

It has been found that current HIP technologies may be very difficult to deal with when HIPs are presented to other smart devices such as a smart television TV . In an embodiment the system is configured to sense or detect and determine various interactions done in a smart TV and to understand such interactions as a response. For example a few patterns of remote control actions may be understood as a response. In an embodiment the system may be configured to detect if the device is a smart TV and accordingly pose a challenge which can be easily responded by a TV user.

This embodiment is important to secure the attacks from malicious bots such as the bots which can fake as a TV device and attack the content or record the videos from the TV when it is streamed automatically from web devices.

In an embodiment a method allows to create several templates having several fixed parts but with some empty spaces. These spaces may be used for creation of random challenges. The empty spaces may also be randomized within the template. Such templates may be any multimedia such as images animation or interactive games.

In an embodiment the templates consist of a structure which is very basic in nature. Such type of template may be considered a skeleton. Subsequently different modules which are part of this template may be defined. Also subsequently a relationship may be built between modules to propose challenge and response mechanisms. Such template based HIP provides a very scalable and uniform way of presenting HIP.

As well the system is configured to provide capabilities to find and fill the templates automatically given the set of categorized multimedia objects. The system uses intelligent classification and aggregation algorithms to populate and build relationships within the template elements. Based on the template elements the system may also pick the most suitable relationships to be defined as a challenge in the HIP.

In an embodiment the response may also be defined using either static mapping of relationships to the interactions or the response may be picked dynamically at run time. As well a challenge may be associated with multiple types of responses and vice versa.

For example a pattern matching template system generates challenges based on the pattern matching system. For example there may be one multimedia source which has a typical pattern and the challenge images may then be created that match closely with that pattern. However it should be appreciated that an embodiment makes it difficult for current pattern matching algorithms to do reverse matching but make it easy for humans to solve the challenge.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a flow diagram of creating a template based HIP. An HIP request is made to a template selection engine . Template selection engine obtains a template from a template repository . Template selection engine sends the template to an object relationship selection engine . Object relationship engine uses intelligent classification and aggregation algorithms to populate and build relationships within elements of said template and based on said elements picks most suitable relationships to be defined as a challenge in the HIP. Based on that information an MMO object selection engine selects an MMO object. An HIP builder combines the MMO object and the defined challenge and sends the combined MMO object with the defined challenge to a client .

An embodiment can be understood with reference to an example challenge to demonstrate the template based HIP and examples of relationships objects interactions and templates. shows an example of a template based HIP where the template is source and target containers. Objects relationship between objects and interaction are also defined to complete the template based HIP. Templates relationships objects and types of interactions are encompassed as one set and a different combination of different or the same templates relationships objects and types of interactions are encompassed as a different set and two or more different combinations of the sets may be used to create different HIPs.

It should be appreciated that different e commerce websites are willing to provide a pattern based search of the products. For example such websites enable a user to take a picture of a product and then search for the product in the database of the website. In these types of databases categorization is a problem. Categorizations and classifications may be improved using embodiments herein. For example in an embodiment the system provides HIP methods that may be employed to ask the user to correctly match patterns. Some of the patterns may be used as a dummy for categorization while others may be used for security. As well in an embodiment statistical analysis for some set of population may be used to find which pattern matches closely to the ones being asked in the challenge.

It has been found that there are various places where HIP multimedia becomes very important to provide good level of authentication and security. For example in an embodiment the system is configured to provide integration with the tools and techniques that are associated with those user flows. For example downloads require HIP protection. There are several download managers which are out in the market and the system herein is capable of being configured to integrate with such tools.

One good example are comment boxes. Comment boxes are tools by which users leave some comment or collaborate on others comments. Users can interact with the previous comments such as vote like dislike score. Such interactions are prone to bot attacks. Such tools may be integrated with the HIP enabled MMOs. In an embodiment the MMOs also may be attached without HIP enablement in some places to increase the effectiveness of MMOs.

In an embodiment human computations may be used to help systems to learn and create better training data for the machine learning algorithms. For example in an embodiment a couple of questions may be asked to a user one for human verification and the other for unsolved or complex pattern matching. An embodiment provides such questions such that the user may be caused to or is encouraged to try to answer both correctly. Such technique enables the system to learn and optimize indexing of close matching images.

In an embodiment the system is configured to help resolve outliers which are not being solved by the current computer vision techniques. The system is configured to use human intervention to improve image pattern searching.

In an embodiment the system is configured to improve multimedia classification. For example the system may provide two multimedia objects such as images and create a challenge by asking a user to interact with the common objects in the images. In the example the system may present one image with many objects e.g. sun mountain trees fruits and a girl and a second image that contains a fruit. The challenge for the user may be to encircle the object in the first image which belongs to the same class family category of the object being shown in the second image. It has been found that this challenge is a difficult problem for machines to solve. There are recognition classification segmentation problems involved in solving the challenge which makes the challenge difficult for machines to solve easily.

An embodiment provides a system configured to improve multimedia aggregation by providing multiple images and asking users to select those that appear more than once. The challenge may also provide hints to users for selecting images. In an embodiment the response may be an interaction on all the images being presented in the challenge. For example the challenge may be to select all images which are owned by a single company.

In an embodiment the system is configured to be used in other ways to utilize human computation. For example the system may be configured to recognize and understand likes or dislikes patterns for a particular product under the constraint of a demography gender etc. and use the knowledge gained to solve computational problems.

In an embodiment the system is configured to provide robust and deep analytics which may be a strong input for several decision making processes and systems.

An embodiment can be understood with reference to a flow diagram of creating an HIP system which can integrate some human computation methods to utilize human interactions to solve some computational problems. That is the system uses human computation methods to extract some values out of human interactions apart from using HIPs for validation of human interaction. A client sends a HIP request to a human computation HIP generator which sends control to an active real challenge and response generator to obtain a part of the challenge which is active and sends control to a passive challenge and response generator to obtain a part of the challenge which is passive. The active and passive parts are sent to a HIP builder which is configured to hide or unhide active and passive parts of the challenge to create a final challenge. Active HIP validation of the active parts of the challenge is performed by a VS and when validation is successful the HIP response is sent to website or application and when validation is not successful control returns to human computation HIP generator . Passive HIP validation of passive parts of the challenge is sent to a log database which sends the validation on to an analytics server . Analytics server is configured to use information about said validation in generating reports .

The computer system includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit for example a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device for example a keyboard a cursor control device for example a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device for example a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of executable instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein below. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received over a network by means of a network interface device .

In contrast to the system discussed above a different embodiment uses logic circuitry instead of computer executed instructions to implement processing entities. Depending upon the particular requirements of the application in the areas of speed expense tooling costs and the like this logic may be implemented by constructing an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having thousands of tiny integrated transistors. Such an ASIC may be implemented with CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor TTL transistor transistor logic VLSI very large systems integration or another suitable construction. Other alternatives include a digital signal processing chip DSP discrete circuitry such as resistors capacitors diodes inductors and transistors field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic array PLA programmable logic device PLD and the like.

It is to be understood that embodiments may be used as or to support software programs or software modules executed upon some form of processing core such as the CPU of a computer or otherwise implemented or realized upon or within a system or computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer. For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals for example carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or any other type of media suitable for storing or transmitting information.

Further it is to be understood that embodiments may include performing operations and using storage with cloud computing. For the purposes of discussion herein cloud computing may mean executing algorithms on any network that is accessible by internet enabled or network enabled devices servers or clients and that do not require complex hardware configurations e.g. requiring cables and complex software configurations e.g. requiring a consultant to install. For example embodiments may provide one or more cloud computing components that enable users e.g. users on the go to be connected to use create or implement scalable and effective multi media objects with HIP capabilities on such internet enabled or other network enabled devices servers or clients. It further should be appreciated that one or more cloud computing embodiments enabling creating and implementing or using scalable and effective multi media objects with HIP capabilities using mobile devices tablets and the like as such devices are becoming standard consumer devices.

Although the invention is described herein with reference to the preferred embodiment one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other applications may be substituted for those set forth herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the invention should only be limited by the Claims included below.

