---

title: Method and system for processing internet payments using the electronic funds transfer network
abstract: Embodiments of the invention include a method and system for conducting financial transactions over a payment network. The method may include associating a payment address of an account with an account holder name, the account residing at a financial institution and the associated payment address of the account configured to allow withdrawals by the account holder only and to allow a plurality of deposits to be made at different times. The method further includes freely publishing the payment address and making it available to users of an internet portal or search engine. The method further includes receiving data over a network identifying a deposit to be made to the account, assigning the deposit to the account using the payment address, and notifying the payer of the assignment. At least one directory is used for associating the account holder with the payment address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738521&OS=08738521&RS=08738521
owner: JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
number: 08738521
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130308
---
This patent application is of a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 443 173 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 102 113 filed on May 6 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 576 463 filed on Oct. 9 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 962 409 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 356 171 filed on Jan. 31 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 676 431 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 497 307 filed on Feb. 3 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 609 113 all of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 497 307 claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 132 305 filed May 3 1990 60 150 725 filed Aug. 25 1999 60 161 300 filed Oct. 26 1999 60 163 828 filed Nov. 5 1999 and 60 173 044 filed Dec. 23 1999 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for conducting electronic commerce and more particularly to systems and method in which a payor pushes electronic credits to a payee using an Electronic Funds Transfer system.

Presently there are several methods by which a consumer can electronically pay for purchases made on the Internet such as credit cards off line debit cards online debit cards digital cash and smart cards. Each of these methods has its own advantages and disadvantages. An off line debit card uses the traditional credit card system for clearing the payment but no Personal Identification Number PIN is required. The use of an on line debit card requires that the consumer supply his or her PIN and the amount of the purchase is debited from the consumer s account instantaneously. One disadvantage with both the on and off line debit cards from a consumer s point of view is the inability to reverse or repudiate the transaction. In contrast by use of a credit card the consumer at a later date can reverse the transaction e.g. if the purchased goods are never shipped to the consumer .

It is predicted that credit cards will be the dominant on line point of sale POS payment choice for at least the next five years. While new Internet payment mechanisms have been rapidly emerging consumers and merchants have been happily conducting a growing volume of commerce using basic credit card functionality. None of the emerging efforts to date have gotten more than a toehold in the market place and momentum continues to build in favor of credit cards.

At the present time there are several large market segments for an online payment system. First high volume low dollar payments from consumers to providers of on line digital intellectual products or services such as written materials music software or games. These can either be Intrapreneurs individuals or small merchants marketing their products directly to consumers or larger intermediaries either traditional retail merchants or auction sites that aggregate consumers and sellers to facilitate sales. A second large market segment involves electronic payments from consumers to other consumers. A third and growing market segment resides in business to business electronic payments.

The market opportunity will continue to explode as what is currently thought of as the Internet continues to expand. In general the Internet is thought of as Personal Computer PC and telephone based. However that model is quickly changing to include broadband communication via terrestrial links such as Digital Subscriber Line DSL wireless and two way cable. The end number of devices is also expanding to include cellular phones with video displays as well as interactive television Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and kiosks with Internet access. Both of these changes will only serve to increase the number of end points and consumers who will have a need for high volume low dollar payment capabilities.

Overall retail consumer sales as well as business to business sales on the Internet are projected to grow exponentially. The bulk of the payments for these sales are expected to be done with credit cards which are widely available and owned are supported by an established infrastructure and provide merchants and consumers with a high degree of surety of payment and receipt. While there are clear differences in the ways in which consumers use credit cards traditionally consumers have used them for larger dollar purchases. In recent years debit cards have entered the market and have been used as cash and check replacements replacing lower dollar volume transactions for purchases of consumable products such as food and gasoline.

Debit and credit card transactions are currently processed using the Electronic Funds Transfer EFT network. The debit message comprising the transaction is carried over the EFT network from the point of origination e.g. a Point of Sale POS location an ATM machine or an Internet merchant to the financial institution that issued the card or its representative . Currently only debit messages are carried by the EFT network including debit reversal messages. A debit reversal message reverses a previously processed debit transaction and is generally not considered a credit.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 501 to Lawlor et al. describes a home banking and bill payment system that uses the EFT network. As described in the patent the systems and methods of Lawlor performs a traditional debit pull from the user s bank account using the EFT network and subsequently makes payments using conventional means such as the ACH network or paper checks. Furthermore the system of Lawlor uses a centralized computer to which the user attaches via a dedicated phone connection as opposed to connecting through the Internet.

Although credit and debit cards have emerged as the most popular form of payment over the Internet there are drawbacks associated with each of these payment types. Notably each have a relatively high cost that includes a processing fee plus a merchant discount of 1.4 and up. The relatively high fees support the credit card business model. While credit and debit cards may continue to be a viable payment option for merchants selling relatively high ticket items over the Internet credit and debit cards are not economically viable for purchases of lower cost items. For lower cost items the relatively high transaction processing fees plus the discount result in the transaction processing fee consuming a relatively high proportion of the total revenue generated by the product sale. These characteristics of a low cost item lend themselves to a low cost payments solution that is guaranteed yet does not require the payee to bear the burden and risk of authentication.

The Internet is spawning a direct model in which manufacturers of products or services are able to deal directly with consumers. This model has several implications for the payment process. First by eliminating the middleman the direct model is resulting in intense price competition with manufacturers having much tighter margins. This competition creates the need to minimize all costs especially payment processing costs. Second the Internet enables the development of large numbers of independent producers to set up shop on the Internet and immediately have access to large numbers of consumers. Third a large and increasing number of intellectual products such as publications music video software games are more efficiently distributed digitally over the Internet rather than through traditional physical paper or disc media. While this trend has already started as higher bandwidth and increasingly sophisticated devices enter the marketplace it is expected to increase significantly. Many of these purchases will have the following characteristics low cost to the consumer and the ability to purchase individual works i.e. a song a video an article a game . These characteristics call for a payment form that has a low cost.

By combining these two trends direct merchant to consumer distribution from independent intrapreneurs and the ability to distribute products digitally a new marketplace has emerged for low dollar high volume real time payments with payment surety for both consumers and producers. Larger intermediaries such as existing on line merchants and auction sites will also benefit from a low cost payment device for high volume low dollar payments for all of the same reasons outlined above. On line merchants are currently facing a variety of problems including a low volume of on line purchases relative to the number of site viewers a high volume of charge backs for on line purchases non integrated patchwork systems for payment processing high fraud rates and high processing fees. All of these factors serve to depress the potential number of customers who are comfortable purchasing on line as well as depressing the profitability of on line merchants.

Furthermore to date there is no efficient way for consumers to make payments to other consumers using the Internet. All traditional forms of person to person exchange include the physical exchange of cash or checks rather than a real time digital exchange of value. In addition the high cost of retail wire transfers i.e. Western Union is cost prohibitive to a significant portion of society.

Automated Clearing House ACH payments have begun to be used with respect to payments made via the Internet. These types of transactions typically involve payments made with respect to loans insurance and utilities. It is predicted that ACH payments will not be widely deployed to on line POS for two reasons. First an ACH transaction does not provide transaction authorization and secondly authentication requires a pre existing relationship between the customer and the merchant. Furthermore ACH payments have to be received deposited and cleared before the funds are available. In contrast to ACH transactions credit and off line debit cards require authorization but not authentication. Similarly on line debit requires authentication i.e. a PIN or other authentication . As with credit and debit card transactions ACH transactions requires that the user provide the merchant payee with the keys to the user s account. This pull model of effectuating payments again raises the security concerns discussed herein e.g. fraud .

Two significant drawbacks with some or all of the above models for Internet POS payments are that 1 a pre existing relationship between the consumer and the merchant must exist and 2 the consumer is required to provide the merchant with his or her account and or PIN. The first drawback of some of the above models cannot be practically overcome as it is impossible for a consumer to have pre existing relationships with all of the potential merchants conducting business on the Internet. With respect to the provision of the consumer s account and PIN number over the Internet even though mail order companies have been operating in this manner for years many consumers feel uneasy about electronically providing their account and PIN numbers to strangers over the Internet.

Some of the same drawback described above with respect to Internet shopping equally apply to electronic bill payment. The first drawback requiring a pre existing relationship between the consumer and bill payee is not as great a concern because this relationship most likely already exists between the consumer and the payee e.g. the telephone cable or utility company . The second drawback which requires the consumer to provide the payee with his or her account and or PIN still remains a concern with electronic bill payment. Although fraud is less of a problem for bill payment since the consumer presumably has regular dealings with the payee some consumers still view the provision of the payee with at least his her account number a diminution in the consumer s privacy.

The present invention represents a new paradigm for effectuating electronic payments that leverages existing platforms conventional payment infrastructures and currently available web based technology to enable e commerce in both the virtual and physical marketplace. The concept provides a safe sound and secure method that allows users consumers to shop on the Internet pay bills and pay anyone virtually anywhere all without the consumer having to share account number information with the payee. Merchants receive immediate payment confirmation through the Electronic Funds Transfer EFT network so they can ship their product with confidence that the payment has already been received. The present invention further enables small dollar financial transactions allows for the creation of web cash as well as provides facilities for customer service and record keeping.

The structural components to the system of the present invention include a Payment Portal Processor a digital Wallet an Internet Pay Anyone IPA Account a Virtual Private Lockbox VPL an Account Reporter the existing EFT networks and a cash card. The Payment Portal Processor PPP is a software application that augments any Internet browser with e commerce capability. The PPP software sits in front of and provides a secure portal for accessing linking to the user s. Demand Deposit Accounts DDA and IPA accounts. The PPP enables the user to push electronic credits from its DDA and IPA accounts to any other accounts through the EFT network.

Although the PPP can be used as a stand alone product in a preferred embodiment the functionality of the PPP is directly incorporated into a new form of PPP enhanced digital Wallet in order to enhance the consumer s Internet shopping experience. Alternatively hooks to the PPP can be incorporated into existing digital Wallets to add the unique payment feature of the PPP. Furthermore features of online banking e.g. funds transfers can be incorporated into the PPP to allow for account maintenance and IPA account funding. In association with the traditional Wallet functionality and the Account Reporter of the present invention the PPP is used to fund consumer s accounts shop on the web pay bills pay anyone store electronic receipts and transaction history and review the user s recent account and shopping activity. The PPP thus provides consumers with a safe secure and convenient way to conduct financial transactions over the Internet.

The majority of the prior art electronic Wallets on the Internet today are primarily used as a convenience vehicle merely providing a method of storing account number information and other form filling functions e.g. shipping addresses . In contrast to traditional Wallets the PPP enhanced Wallet of the present invention is associated with one or more DDA and or IPA accounts. The PPP thus provides the user with a form of virtual cash that is secure and guaranteed. The PPP further contains a receipt feature and archive feature that maintains a transaction history of all payment activity with respect to accounts linked to the PPP. The PPP further has the capability to store miles coupons sweepstakes or other marketing incentives associated with use of the accounts linked to the PPP. The PPP enhanced Wallet enriches the consumer e commerce experience by eliminating the tedious process of filling out lengthy payment and shipping fields as this is done automatically. Merchants significantly benefit from the credit push and form filling features of the PPP enhanced Wallet since research indicates that most e commerce purchases are abandoned at the POS due to consumers unwillingness to complete lengthy forms or provide personal credit card numbers. Furthermore the automatic form filling features of the PPP enhanced Wallet reduces shipping errors as the ship to address is automatically filled in eliminating manual entry errors.

In one embodiment of the present invention the user supplies the PPP with its credit card number. The user is then given the option given the option to fund the payment with his or her credit card. The PPP contacts the credit card issuer authorization for the credit in the amount of the payment. When the authorization is returned the EFT credit to the payee is funded from the funds from the credit card. The user s bank then settles with the credit card issuer at the end of the day.

The IPA account is a special purpose account with limited functionality for originating electronic payments. Funds in an IPA account can only be accessed electronically by the user of the account using standard authentication procedures e.g. a PIN . The electronic access to the IPA account can be accomplished through a PC card reader PDA Interactive TV and cell phone technology for example. This restriction provides an added level of consumer protection in that the consumer never has to provide any of its account information to any strangers. The above described PPP operated by the user securely communicates with the IPA account to initiate payments according to the present invention. One essential feature of the present invention completely contrary to the prior art is that payments made from the IPA account are transmitted to the payee as a credit over the secure EFT network. As discussed above only debit related transactions are currently initiated on the EFT system. The EFT credit message of the present invention thus represent a significant advancement in art which has no peers with respect to electronic commerce.

Similar to an IPA the VPL is a limited function account. While an IPA can be accessed electronically a VPL is constructed with a receive only functionality that enables a merchant or any party to receive electronic payments through the EFT. Therefore a VPL is a secure address that can be provided to the public as a means of receiving funds. These funds can then be automatically swept to either the user s corresponding DDA or IPA account preferably once a day. As will be further described below there are several types of VPL accounts according to the present invention one for consumers one for merchants and one that is initially linked to a cash card as described below. The card VPL is a receive only account that can only be debited via the use of the cash card and a PIN. The consumer and merchant VPLs can similarly be PIN debited to access the funds in the account. Unlike an IPA account the VPL account cannot be used for initiating EFT credit messages. In one embodiment of the present invention the IPA and VPL accounts are logically one account with two addresses for account. One address the IPA address is only known to the user and its issuing institution and is used to make payments from the account. The other address the VPL address is used to receive electronic credits and can be freely published without any fear of fraud.

The Account Reporter is a portal for consumers or business to view the balance and transaction history of an IPA or VPL account. In addition to the features described above intended for use with an IPA account the Account Reporter includes special functionality intended for use by merchants in association with their VPL accounts. The Account Reporter provides online real time transaction reports and reconciles accounts receivable purchase records against incoming EFT payment records. In addition the transaction history of the VPL can be archived and retrieved via a payment search engine in the Account Reporter. This provides the merchant with powerful data mining customer service and order fulfillment warehouse shipping supply chain management tools at their fingertips. Credit card purchases on the web according to prior art methods are not connected to a cash management program. In contrast to these prior art systems the VPL connected with the Account Reporter offers a complete purchasing and cash management opportunity for a merchant. The VPL and Account Reporter combination provides a merchant with instant payment receipt verification accounts receivable functionality order fulfillment facilitation inventory control supply chain management facilitation and data mining capability.

The Account Reporter is a flexible component offering instant payment confirmation reconciliation and record retention so that merchants can track purchase orders against actual payments in real time. Every VPL transaction can be stored searched and retrieved. This archival retrieval functionality is the perfect instrument for customer service and data mining. The Account Reporter offers all of the above features without the need to actively engage in funds management as is required with the prior art.

Using the structures described above the methods of the present invention allow consumers and businesses to conduct secure and economical shopping on the Internet to pay anyone online pay anyone funds online pay bills electronically online and even use a linked cash card. The methods and structures of the present invention enable e commerce in both the virtual and physical marketplace through the use of legacy platforms the conventional payments infrastructure and currently available web based technology.

The present invention furthermore solves many if not all of the problems of the prior art described above. Currently all Internet transactions use pull technology in which a merchant must receive the consumer s account number and in some cases PIN number in order to complete a payment. The payment methods of the present invention conversely use push technology in which users consumers or businesses push an EFT credit from their IPA or DDA accounts to a merchant s account without having to provide their own sensitive account information.

The present invention provides an enhanced level of security because sensitive financial information is not carried over the Internet. All of the financial transactions are executed through the secure EFT network. This method of the present invention provides buyers and sellers with the comfort that their transactions are both secure and private. Furthermore since payment confirmations are immediately received through the EFT network sellers can rest assured that the buyer s funds are good before the purchase transaction is completed i.e. before the goods are released shipped to the consumer .

The present invention provides significant economic advantages over the prior art systems and methods. The majority of the technology required to implement the present invention already exists which results in reduced startup costs for an institution practicing the present invention. Payments made according the present methods pass through a mature established EFT switch which results in a low transaction cost. The payment mechanisms of the prior art are not optimal for processing small dollar transactions. However the efficient low cost architecture of the present invention supports payments of any size and is perfect for low dollar purchases. This architecture supports the growing need for Internet micro payments for goods such as on line articles and music files yet supports large value payments as well.

By the structures and methods of the present invention the two most significant disadvantages of the prior art online shopping methods described above have been overcome. First of all the buyer consumer or business is no longer providing its confidential financial information to strangers over the Internet. Rather the buyer is dealing directly with its own trusted institution in a preferred embodiment a bank . Furthermore no pre existing relationship has to exist between the customer and the merchant.

For the merchant the present invention significantly reduces the transactional cost as compared to the use of credit cards. The method also provides a reduction in fraud and credit losses while the finality of the transaction virtually eliminates dispute and chargeback processing from the viewpoint of the financial institution. For financial institutions the present invention all but eliminates the potential of fraud that is inherent with credit card transactions. As consumers are typically only responsible for the first 50 of fraudulent transactions banks typically absorb the sometimes significant costs associated with fraud. The ability for hackers to steal consumer s account numbers e.g. credit card numbers from an Internet merchant is completely eliminated since the merchant never receives such information.

The present invention is not limited to the case of a consumer making purchases from Internet merchants or business to business transactions. The method has further broader applicability by providing the ability for anyone with an account at an institution to transfer funds to anyone else who also has an account at the same or a different institution. The pay anyone feature of the present invention allows parties to electronically transmit funds instantaneously without the expense of today s wiring fees.

In contrast to the credit card on line and off line debit and other payment models existing today one of the unique features of the method of the present invention is the flow of the payment instruction and the payment which follows. In the credit card on line and off line debit models a buyer provides a seller with an instruction that authorizes the seller to collect funds from the buyer s account. Depending on the system this debit instruction results in a guaranteed payment in the case of an on line debit rather than a lengthy wait for funds such in the case of a check or something in between in the case of an off line debit and credit card. The difference between the prior art models and the model of the present invention can be described as the difference between a pull and a push model. In the conventional models of today the seller pulls the payment from the buyer s account using a debit instruction while in the present invention the buyer pushes an EFT credit to the seller s account.

As the user accesses the Internet using its Browser a Wallet is launched by the user. The Wallet can be downloaded and installed from a website. Using thin wallet technology the majority of software and databases comprising the Wallet resides on a host web server and the user accesses the Wallet through a website or a button e.g. icon on the Browser . Some functionality of the Wallet can be operated on the workstation itself without the requirement of attachment to the Internet. In addition to PC based access as described above the Wallet can be downloaded to various non PC devices such as PDAs cellular telephones and interactive TV s. The consumer may access the Wallet while logged onto the Internet by selecting a wallet button on the Browser toolbar or selecting a wallet icon at the merchant s web site. For non PC devices the Wallet can be activated via a separate application a browser link or through a sponsoring website. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a business such as a bank operates the server that hosts the Wallet Application Programming Interface API . This embodiment provides for additional security of the connection between the Wallet and the user s IPA or other accounts maintained at the institution.

The user s log in to the PPP enhanced Wallet is secure and encrypted to protect the confidentiality of any financial information associated with the operation of the PPP enhanced Wallet . Once accessed a window containing the PPP enhanced Wallet is launched on the workstation and remains open during the user s session. The PPP enhanced Wallet window has the ability to communicate with other open browser windows. In a preferred embodiment the users connection to the PPP enhanced Wallet is through the Internet. In an alternative embodiment the connection from the user s workstation to the PPP enhanced Wallet software can be through a separate dial up line or third party private network.

As one of its primary functions the PPP enhanced Wallet though the functions provided by the PPP serves as the portal to an Internet Payment Account IPA or a DDA account described in more detail below. In a preferred embodiment the PPP enhanced Wallet stores the following types of information Form filling information such as credit card numbers debit card numbers shipping addresses alternate shipping addresses frequent flyer accounts membership discounts e.g. AAA AARP loyalty programs and e mail addresses Discount information such as e coupons rebates and merchant specific spending certificates Points or miles accrued for use of the accounts associated with the PPP and Convenience information such as frequently paid VPL s described below bill payment account s receipts e commerce bookmarks shopping lists. A preferred download folder is installed on the user s local hard drive. The PPP enhanced Wallet has pull down menus that are used to select edit update sort import and export any of the above information.

Using the above information the PPP enhanced Wallet automatically fills in electronic merchant purchase forms with the user s shipping address e mail address discount numbers etc. The PPP enhanced Wallet supports virtual cash IPA DDA payments in accordance with the present invention traditional credit and debit card pull payments and a combination of the two types of payments as is further described below. Upon receipt of an electronic purchase message from a merchant web site as will be further described below with respect to the method of the PPP enhanced Wallet user is able to 1 approve a purchase 2 initiate the payment through a payment authorization to the consumer s bank 3 verify the accuracy of the merchant s payee information identification of the merchant s account at the merchant s bank 4 generate a purchase confirmation that is transmitted to the merchant web site or VPL reporter and 5 generate a receipt that can be stored at the server hosting the PPP enhanced Wallet or the user s storage e.g. hard drive on workstation . The PPP enhanced Wallet user receives a confirmation message indicating that no purchase has been made if a purchase is not completed.

The PPP enhanced Wallet includes a Time Out feature whereby purchase requests not approved by a user for a set amount of time e.g. 10 minutes will be invalidated. For Pay Anyone payments as further described with respect to below the PPP enhanced Wallet supports a user defined recession period e.g. 30 minutes during which the user can reverse a transaction.

An additional feature of the PPP enhanced Wallet are parental control settings. In establishing an IPA account the user is given the opportunity to establish subordinate child IPA and or VPL accounts that are controlled by the main parent IPA account. For example a parent might want to establish an IPA VPL account for each of its children. Through the IPA account linked to the parent s PPP enhanced Wallet the parent is able to view and control all aspects of the children s IPA VPL accounts. For example the parent might limit the funding of the children s accounts such that they can only receive funds from the parent s account. This will prohibit strangers from sending money the children s accounts. The parent could also limit the amount or number of any transactions out of the account or limit block any payments to unapproved VPL accounts e.g. associated with unapproved Internet sites 

Using functionality from online banking services the PPP enhanced Wallet is able to be associated with linked to some or all of the accounts maintained by the user at the bank . The user is thus able to transfer funds amounts value from one account to another e.g. to an IPA account from a savings account or VPL account with ease. Although in the preferred embodiment of the present invention the IPA and VPL accounts are maintained at a financial institution e.g. a bank it is readily appreciated that any businesses that can attach to the EFT network are capable of maintaining the accounts and performing the operations of the present invention.

A unique transaction number is included in any payment communications to and from the PPP enhanced Wallet . All of the payment communications are stored by the PPP enhanced Wallet for review and auditing by the user. Examples of stored payment communications include payment messages from a merchant or billers payment authorizations from the PPP enhanced Wallet to the bank and payment confirmations to the merchant or . The transaction number for a particular transaction is included in each communication and allows for swift correlation and indexing of communication records e.g. reconciliation . The PPP enhanced Wallet interfaces with the Account Reporter described below which will have access to all archived transactions. In a preferred embodiment the payment communication records are stored in a common database and both the PPP enhanced Wallet and the Account Reporter associated with attached to a particular accounts are able to access the common database for these accounts. Transactions are stored for audit as well as disaster recovery purposes. The PPP enhanced Wallet allows the user to view all transaction histories including receipts and messages. These historical items are sortable by date function bill payment pay anyone shopping etc. amount payments initiated or received merchant etc.

As is further described below the PPP enhanced Wallet is responsible for initiating the push of the credit to the merchant s account . In order to perform the credit push over the EFT the PPP enhanced Wallet requires the merchant s payee information that uniquely identifies the merchant s Virtual Private Lockbox VPL . This payee information includes the merchant s bank identification number typically six digits and the number of the VPL account typically ten to thirteen digits . This payee information constitutes an address to which the Wallet can push credits. Payment communications from PPP enhanced Wallet can additionally identify the PPP enhanced Wallet user s name if required and include the unique transaction number. The PPP enhanced Wallet can make repeated payments daily weekly etc as well as scheduled payments on a specific calendar day or in a specific of days . If the PPP enhanced Wallet is linked to a DDA account DDA debits such as checks returned checks ACH payments etc. are not charged against funds in the primary IPA account associated with the PPP enhanced Wallet . Users are required to acknowledge acceptance of a PPP enhanced Wallet agreement prior to their first transaction using the PPP enhanced Wallet including a requirement to return any proceeds received in error.

Prior to conducting any on line purchases or making any payments using the methods of the present invention the consumer establishes an Internet Payment Account IPA with its bank . Alternatively a DDA account can be used but this is less preferable. For one reason it is envisioned that only small payments are to be made from the IPA account and accordingly less funds would be kept in the account as opposed to the funds normally maintained in a DDA account.

The IPA account is a specialized account used specifically for electronic commerce in accordance with the present invention. Once the IPA account has been established the user is able to fund this account from its normal DDA checking or savings accounts consumer s Line of Credit or credit or debit card account held by the bank or any other account from which the consumer can transfer funds e.g. another DDA account or credit card account at another financial institution . The IPA account provides the user with a confirmation capability in order to verify that the amount drawn is correct. The IPA account and the VPL account described below both allow PIN debit transactions for withdrawals from the accounts.

In a preferred embodiment the IPA account is combined with a VPL account into a single account. The IPA account functionality is accessed through a first address to the account by which funds can be transferred out of the IPA account. Only the user has access to this address and it is password and or PIN protected. If the user has several IPA accounts when the user accesses its PPP a single password and or PIN procedure provides access to all of the user s accounts. The VPL functionality makes the single account appear as a receive only account and is accordingly accessed through a second preferably different address. This second address can only be used for receipt of credits preferably electronic credits according to the present invention. Since the second address can only be used to receive funds the user can freely publish the address without any fear of someone fraudulently transferring money out of the account. The VPL portion of the account can be accessed for PIN debit transactions as will be further described below in connection with the physical card embodiment of the present invention see 

The establishment of a separate IPA VPL account for electronic credits and payments is preferable from a user s point of view in order to provide a separate accounting from the user s normal DDA. As with its regular accounts a transaction history for the IPA is archived. As the IPA account is not necessarily interest bearing it is envisioned that the user would accordingly only fund small amounts into this account in order to cover potential on line purchases. The user can set up periodic e.g. weekly automatic funding of the IPA account . In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the user s payments in accordance with the present invention may be made directly against a normal DDA account.

The IPA or VPL accounts can have physical companion card for physical in person purchases and withdrawals as will be further described below with respect to . Each of the IPA and VPL accounts allow physical access via ATM s or merchant card readers for PIN debit transactions.

One of the most significant features of the present invention is the use of the existing EFT networks . Although these networks have provided secure transfer of funds for years the use of these networks in accordance with the present invention is heretofore unheard of. In the use of the EFT network the present invention provides real time credit. This is contrasted to the prior art debit message methods in which the only semblance of credit provided in a reversal of a prior debit transaction e.g. credit cards . The EFT networks are used to effect IPA transactions fulfill IPA reporting functionality and can be used to fund the IPA . As well as supporting the transmission of real time credit messages the EFT network transmits messages containing special transaction codes and account and bank number structures addresses used to uniquely identify IPA transactions. Furthermore the EFT network can be used to verify the existence and validity of destination accounts as further described below.

As described above similar to an IPA account the Virtual Personal Lockbox VPL is a limited function account. While an IPA can be accessed electronically for outgoing payment transactions a VPL is constructed with EFT network receive only functionality. This feature of a VPL account or a VPL address for a dual access IPA VPL account provides a merchant or other party to receive electronic credits e.g. payments through the EFT . In this manner a VPL is a secure address that can be provided to the public as a means of receiving funds. Once received by a VPL account funds can then be manually or automatically swept by the merchant s bank to one of the owner s other accounts e.g. a DDA or cash concentration account . This sweep can be performed once a day or more or less than once a day as dictated by the needs and objectives of the VPL user.

Like an IPA account the VPL can have a physical companion card for physical in person purchases and withdrawals. The VPL can allow physical access via ATM s or merchant card readers for a PIN debit transaction using a user only access address for debit transactions from the VPL . Although providing the general function of an account to hold funds it must be repeated that the basic functionality of a VPL is distinct from the IPA account functionality. The VPL is a secure lockbox into which funds can be transferred but cannot be taken out except during the sweeping process or other PIN transactions described herein .

In preferred embodiment of the present invention VPL addresses for various merchants and other receivers of electronic payments are made available in a public directory see . Since the receive only address of a VPL account is what is published in the public directory merchants and other users of the receive only VPL are alleviated of the fear of the fraud. In the preferred embodiment the directory of VPL addresses is maintained on an Internet accessible server or servers and accessed through a website that provides the capability to search and select and retrieve VPL information. Alternatively the directory can be accessed by PDA kiosk or by phone using voice recognition or other telephony technology. The directory can be used by the PPP enhanced Wallet to verify the accuracy of a VPL address before it commits to transferring a credit message to the account designated in the VPL address.

As described above the address for an IPA or VPL consists of an identification of the institution at which the account is held typically six digits and an identification of the account typically ten to thirteen digits . For consumers the white pages the directory contains but is not limited to the VPL address the last and first name of the VPL consumer the user s Post Office address phone and email address. For businesses the yellow pages the directory contains but is not limited to the VPL address the business name the industry or type of business the business Post Office address phone and email address.

As briefly described above the Account Reporter is a portal to view the VPL account . The Account Reporter provides online real time transaction reports and reconciles accounts receivable purchase records against incoming EFT payment records . Although primarily intended for use by merchants much of the functionality of the Account Reporter is incorporated in the PPP Wallet . The PPP preferably include a base set of requirements for consumers and the Account Reporter would contain added features required for merchants and businesses e.g. reconciliation of purchase records and payment records .

The VPL account updates the Account Reporter as payment records credit messages and transaction numbers are received through the EFT messaging system . At the same time any purchase orders in the form of a record and payment confirmations see below are passed to the Account Reporter from merchant and billing web sites. As seen in the Account Reporter is also capable of receiving purchase confirmations from the PPP . Purchase confirmations and payment records are retrievable in real time from the Account Reporter . Account Reporter users are able to view their records with respect to their VPL accounts on the Internet. Although only one VPL account has been illustrated in it is understood that a merchant is able to simultaneously maintain several VPLs . Each of these VPLs is capable of being accessed and viewed by the single Account Reporter much like a consumer is able to associate several IPA VPL accounts with its PPP and is able to view these accounts using the PPP .

In addition to the functionality described above with respect to the base features of the Account Reporter storing reviewing sorting transaction histories a merchant embodiment of Account Reporter includes additional functionality. A first of the additional functions provided by the merchant Account Reporter is its reconciling capability that matches purchase requests generated by the merchant s website with shopper s purchase confirmations and the EFT payment records . Any items that do not match are flagged by the Account Reporter as exceptions for review. The merchant Account Reporter further provides for identification ID and password security offering varying levels of access authority to the users.

Additionally the merchant Account Reporter automatically updates the merchant s accounts receivable inventory fulfillment files. As a further extension Account Reporter also has fulfillment service capabilities whereby information from a merchant s website is consolidated and communicated to a warehouse to initiate product shipment as well as linked to United Parcel Service UPS Federal Express FedEx or other shipping services for shipping execution. The Account Reporter contains essential customer service tools such as the ability retrieve review electronic purchase orders payments real time and in turn the ability to email or autofax copies of such directly to customers. The Account Reporter further provides data mining tools that collect statistics on buyer shopper behavior track seasonal and regional buyer shopper trends and track other key demographics. Based on these statistics merchants can issue focused customized electronic coupons through their Account Reporter .

In one embodiment of the present invention the user of an IPA account can specify whether or not the credits it pushes from the IPA includes any identification information at all e.g. account number name . . . . One of the features of the electronic credit pushes of the present invention is that the credit pushes can be made completely anonymously with the recipient of the credit having no way to determine from where the credit originated. The recipient of the credit is able to match the received credit with a proposed purchase using a transaction ID that is contained in the EFT credit push. In the Internet shopping embodiment described below the Internet merchant provides the buyer with the transaction ID and the buyer includes the transaction ID in the EFT credit message sent to the Internet Merchant s VPL account.

If the user is less concerned with privacy the user can include a partial or complete identification of itself in the credit push. If the credit push received by a VPL does contain some identification information the Account Reporter can be configured such that the identities of individual buyers will not be available to the Account Reporter without the prior consent of the user who initiated the credit to the VPL . For consumers the Account Reporter appears as a seamless part of the PPP while for merchants and businesses the Account Reporter appears as a separate utility.

Merchant Web sites are well known to those skilled in the art. Merchant Web sites typically include code such as HTML XML or ECML for getting transaction BIN statements payment messages to the Wallet . As further described below these payment messages typically contain the merchant s VPL address which includes the address of the merchant s bank . The payment messages enable the consumer to push a credit from its IPA account through the EFT system to the VPL account . Merchant s websites can provide a hotlink on the shopping site that goes directly to shopper s PPP enhanced Wallet .

Having described the structural elements of the present invention the following discussion illustrates an embodiment of the present invention related to Internet shopping. As in all of the remaining the method steps are illustrated in the Figures in small circles next to the structural element most closely related to the action being performed. In this embodiment the consumer user initiates the process in step A by logging onto the Internet launching the Browser and selecting the PPP enhanced Wallet icon from Browser toolbar. The PPP enhanced Wallet does not have to activated until the user actually wishes to buy something but the PPP enhanced Wallet could also contain lists of links to a user s favorite shopping sites or billing sites as is further described below .

In step B the user completes a certification procedure in order to correctly identify him or herself to the PPP enhanced Wallet . Typically the certification process involved the user keying in the user s ID and password on the keyboard associated with the workstation . The user is thus authenticated and has access to their PPP enhanced Wallet . In step C the user is then presented with balance information with respect the IPA accounts associated with the PPP enhanced Wallet and can select from several options. In a preferred embodiment the options presented to the user include Shop on the Web Pay Anyone see Fund Accounts see Pay Bills see and View Account Activity.

Assuming the user has selected the Shop on the Web option in step D the Browser could be initially directed to special website list of approved merchants which can also contain the VPL addresses for such merchants . Alternatively the user is free to navigate the Internet to the merchant web site of their choice. In step E the user has found a website of a particular merchant and more specifically has found and selected an item for purchase from merchant web site . Since the PPP enhanced Wallet is active the merchant s site recognizes user as a PPP enhanced Wallet customer. In response to this recognition all of the purchase fields shipping address name etc. required by the merchant site are automatically populated from the PPP enhanced Wallet as described above. Alternatively the user can sign on to their PPP enhanced Wallet after the user has found an item at a website for purchase. The user can either invoke the PPP enhanced Wallet by clicking on an icon embedded directly into the merchant s web page or by clicking on a wallet button on the Browser toolbar.

In step F the merchant site generates and transmits to the user a bill payment message containing information with respect to the prospective purchase. The information provided by the website in the bill payment message includes but is not limited to the following data Merchant BIN Merchant Account Transaction ID and the Dollar Amount of the transaction. In step G the bill payment message is received by the Wallet window. A window displays the bill payment message for review by the user. If the user changes his or her mind the user can select a button on the window entitled Decline Purchase. If the user does want to complete the purchase a Purchase Item button is selected. Although described above with respect to a single item it is clear that the above process equally applies the shopping cart method employed by most merchant sites . In the shopping cart method after the customer has selected a number of items to purchase the merchant site totals the items and transmits a consolidated payment message to the PPP enhanced Wallet in step F.

If the user has selected to purchase the item pursuant to the bill payment message from the merchant site the PPP portion of the PPP enhanced Wallet in step H first verifies the user s balance in the primary IPA account associated with the PPP enhanced Wallet . If there are insufficient funds in the IPA account the user is asked if he she would like to transfer funds from another account into the IPA account. Using online banking procedures the PPP enhanced Wallet is able to transfer funds from any account accessible by the PPP enhanced Wallet into the IPA account . If there are sufficient funds in the IPA account the PPP generates a payment authorization message for transmission to the bank . The payment authorization message contains the above described payee information merchant VPL account and bank address and can also contain a user defined memo field for entry of any information desired by the user e.g. payment for new mystery book .

In addition to generating and transmitting the payment authorization the PPP transmits a purchase acknowledgement directly to the merchant s website . Typically in response to this purchase acknowledgement from the user s PPP the merchant s website creates a purchase record in a database not shown for future use in reconciling with the actual payment confirmation and or payment record . As illustrated in the PPP also send a payment confirmation either to the website or the merchant s Account Reporter . In the preferred embodiment the payment confirmation is in the form of an electronic message e.g. an E mail to the Account Reporter . The payment confirmation can be sent either before or after the PPP has actually transmitted the payment authorization to its bank without any confirmation from the bank that the payment was actually transmitted via the EFT network . Alternatively the PPP can wait until it has received confirmation from the bank that the EFT credit message was actually sent through the EFT network .

In the preferred embodiment the banks which maintain IPA and VPL accounts also maintain the above described database that is used as a centralized record keeping archive in order to feed and retrieve transaction data. Such transaction data includes but is not limited to payment authorizations payment confirmations and the records required for the Account Reporter including EFT transaction data.

In addition to the payment acknowledgment sent to the merchant s website and the payment confirmation sent to the Account Reporter the PPP transmits the payment authorization to the user s IPA account to effectuate the actual transference of the funds from the user s account to the merchant s account via an EFT credit message on the EFT system . The consumer s bank will require some form of authentication of the payment authorization from the PPP . This authentication can be in the form of a software certification an encrypted PIN or the mother s maiden name of the consumer. Once the bank has authenticated that the message truly originated from the consumer the bank can then fulfill the payment authorization .

Upon receipt of this authorization for payment in step I the user s bank debits the user s IPA account to generate an EFT credit message in the amount of the authorized payment. As described above the EFT credit message is completely different from traditional EFT messages that are debits or the reversals of debits. Once generated the EFT credit message is transferred to the merchant s VPL account via the ATM switch . Although the credit instruction is illustrated in as being processed directly by the accounts and it is appreciated that the records are actually processed by the messaging systems and processors of the user s bank the merchant s bank and the EFT network . The EFT credit message is essentially a guarantee of payment from the user s bank the funds being debited from the user s account to the merchant s bank the funds being credited to the merchant s account . Settlement between banks and typically occurs once a day with respect to all outstanding credits and debits between the banks although the cash is available from the VPL account upon receipt of the EFT credit message.

After the EFT credit message has been received by merchant s VPL the receipt of the credit is detected by the merchant s Account Reporter step J . In response to the detection of the credit the Account Reporter preferably generates and stores a payment record in the same database in which the purchase record was stored in step H described above. Although only a single payment record has been illustrated in it is appreciated that two payment records can exist for a single payment transaction. The first payment record can be generated upon the receipt of the payment confirmation from the user s PPP . The second payment record can be generated upon the actual receipt of the EFT credit over the EFT system .

Once the payment record has been stored it can be reconciled by the Account Reporter against the merchant s purchase record step K . In this manner the accounting loop in the merchant s system can be closed with the matching of the merchant s invoice the purchase record with the payment the payment record . Alternatively the Account Reporter can reconcile the above described two payment records one generated from the payment confirmation and one generated from the EFT credit message against the purchase record . With Account Reporter a merchant has a product that allows for secure transaction fulfillment reconcilement ability record keeping and archive possibilities. Once the financial loop has been closed with the receipt of the payment record by the merchant the merchant can confidently ship the goods to the consumer in step L. Shipment of the goods can entail physical shipment of a physical good or electronic transmission of a digital good such as a music file.

In fulfillment of the guarantee established by the EFT credit message funds are settled once a day in step M between user s bank and the merchant s bank through the EFT switch . Typically hundreds or thousands of such payments occur back and forth between bank and bank during the day and for efficiency purposes the actual net funds due from one bank to the other are only transferred once per day. For example one bank might have guaranteed 10 000 in EFT credit messages from one hundred of its customers to the other bank . On the same day the other bank might have guaranteed 12 000 in EFT credits from fifty of its customers to the other bank . At the end of the day bank only sends the difference 2 000 to bank and each of the banks ensure that the proper accounts in its own bank are debited and credited for the payments. As can be readily appreciated each bank performs this end of day settlement with hundreds of other banks as is presently done with the current ATM system transfer of funds. Again on a daily basis the funds received into the merchant s VPL account are swept by an automatic process into the merchant s cash concentration account which can be a DDA or IPA account.

As is readily appreciated from the above description the PPP enhanced Wallet and the Virtual Private Lockbox VPL significantly enhances the consumer and merchant experience when used for web shopping. The present invention completely solves one of the biggest problems of the prior art the hesitancy of a consumer to provide financial account information over the Internet. Rather than the merchant pulling in the consumers account information and requiring authentication of the consumer the PPP enhanced Wallet pushes an EFT credit message to the merchant s Virtual Private Lockbox without the merchant ever obtaining the consumers account information. This transaction is virtually instantaneous provides privacy security and convenience to the consumer and guarantees funding provides reconcilement and supplies archival records to the merchant.

With respect to authentication because the consumer is pushing the payment to merchants or other entities or individuals rather than the merchants pulling payments from consumer accounts the consumers do not need to authenticate themselves to the merchant. Rather the consumers authenticate themselves to their own bank which then executes the EFT credit payment to the merchant s VPL account .

This method of the present invention is quite attractive to consumers because they can pay any merchant regardless of the existence of a pre existing relationship with that individual or entity. The transaction can furthermore be conducted from anywhere there is access to the Internet. The IPA account can be used and managed through the consumer s PC a web enabled ATM by phone or by any other web enabled device. The present Internet shopping payment method is extremely easy for online banking customers to adopt. The method allows consumers to conduct online shopping without having to provide any personal confidential financial information to unknown merchants. The method allows consumers to conduct these financial transactions solely with her or his own financial institution.

With respect to merchants that are paid by the method of the present invention there are several advantages. This method opens up a universe of buyers payors who do not have access to or the desire to use credit or debit cards online. Very little effort is required on the part of a merchant which only has to publish its bank and VPL deposit only account information on its web site or other public directory see in . If a merchant has been using traditional credit card methods the present invention provides the merchant with significant savings in credit card processing repudiation costs fraud loss and chargeback costs. The present invention also provides the merchant with the ability to economically accept micropayments.

As described above with respect to the Internet shopping model illustrated in in the pay anyone model of in steps A C the user logs onto the Internet launches its browser not shown in and launches the Wallet . In the embodiment of the Wallet is a traditional Wallet with the appropriate interface to the PPP . When the user wants to activate the PPP the user is required to key in its user ID and password by which the user is then authenticated and has access to their the accounts associated with the PPP . The user is then presented with its account balance information and can select from several options including Shop on the Web Pay Anyone Pay Bills Pay Anyone Fund Wallet Review Account Activity Edit Wallet information or Go to Customer Service.

In the present embodiment illustrated in the user selects the Pay Anyone option from the menu and the user is presented with several options in the Pay Anyone menu screen in step D. These options include manually keying in the payee s VPL number selecting a prior payee from a drop down menu Add Remove Edit a payee from drop down menu and the option to go to an online directory of VPL numbers of various payees. In the particular embodiment illustrated in the user keys in or selects the payee s VPL address the dollar amount of the payment and a description of the reason for the payment the description being optional.

In step E the above described payment information is transmitted to payee s Wallet or PPP not illustrated . The payee s Wallet verifies the VPL number specified by the user and provides an authorization to make the payment. In step F the payee s Wallet confirms that the information is correct and transmits to the user payor a payment message with the following data Payee BIN Payee Account Transaction ID the dollar amount of the payment and an optional description. In step G upon receipt of the payment message the user reviews the message and selects OK to Pay . Step D through G are an optional process since the PPP can unilaterally initiate the push of an EFT credit message without ever having contacted the receiver of the credit. In such a blind push of a credit it is recommended that the PPP consult an online directory to verify the accuracy of the address to which the EFT credit message is to be sent.

In step H the user s PPP sends the payment authorization to the user s IPA account . In parallel the user s PPP transmits a payment confirmation of the expected payment to the payee s Wallet or Account Reporter which creates an expected payment record . The user s PPP goes through the certification as described above in order for the user s bank to properly identify the payment authorization . In step I the EFT credit message is passed from user s IPA account to the payee s VPL via the ATM switch . As described above the payee s VPL may actually be the receive only address of an IPA account maintained by the payee.

In an alternative embodiment a verification message is first sent through the EFT network to the destination account . The purpose of this verification message is to verity the existence and identity of the VPL account . In response to the receipt of the verification message assuming the VPL address was accurate and the message was received the VPL account sends back a response message that includes a text description of the owner user of the VPL account . This response message is then displayed to the user via the PPP so that the user can verify that the account to which it is about to send a credit is actually owned used by the party to which the user intend to send the credit.

This verification procedure can be used in the Internet shopping model described above with respect to . In fact the verification procedure is useful in thwarting any attempts at hacking of the VPL address transmitted step F in and step F in via the Internet in the payment message from the merchant in or other payee represented by Wallet in . For example if the payment message originated from Amazon and included Amazon s VPL address the verification procedure described above through the secure EFT network would inform the user that the owner of the VPL was truly Amazon. If a miscreant e.g. Joe Hacker had intercepted the payment message and inserted its own VPL address the response message in accordance with the verification procedure will visually inform the user that the VPL address to which it will send the credit is owned by Joe Hacker. At this point the user can abandon the transmission of the EFT credit and try and identify Amazon s true VPL address.

In an alternative verification procedure the PPP can echo back to the sender of the payment message merchant in or Wallet in the VPL address contained in the payment message. The sender can then verify for itself that the user has the correct VPL address to which to send the credit. This alternative verification process requires the hacker to intercept and alter two separate messages. Although better than no verification the alternative procedure is still not as attractive as the EFT network verification as it occurs in the unsecured Internet space.

Returning to in response to the receipt of the EFT credit message by the payee s VPL a payment record is generated step J . Upon the receipt of the payment record the payee s Wallet or Account Reporter in step K is able to reconcile the expected payment record against the actual payment record . Further in response to the receipt of the EFT credit message the payee bank credits the payee s VPL account and the payee now has immediate use of funds. These funds can in turn be used for web shopping bill payment pay anyone or can be withdrawn at an ATM using the card feature described below.

In concluding the pay anyone process as with the embodiment illustrated in funds are settled once a day between the user s bank and the payee s bank step M and the funds can be swept into the payee s DDA or other IPA account step N .

The pay anyone process described above is a ver attractive payment method for consumers. For example the consumer might be responding to a classified advertisement electronic or traditional paper or purchasing an item or a service through an electronic auction site such as eBay . In either of these cases the consumer can obtain the payee s VPL account information e.g. BIN account number . . . in a variety of ways. In one method the consumer obtains this information electronically from the service where it contacted the individual e.g. through eBay . Alternatively the consumer can obtain the necessary destination account information through offline methods such as the traditional paper classified advertisement or through an Email which has been pushed to the consumer by the potential payee. The potential payee is protected using these methods since the VPL account is a receive only account and no one can access the account to fraudulently withdraw money from the account. The user can furthermore obtain the payee information from the online directory from a pull down menu on the Wallet or by keying in the information manually.

In the vending machine embodiment the card is purchased from the vending machine with pre funded with set increments of currency. These increments are associated to specific account number ranges and are linked to IPA VPL accounts. In one embodiment the physical card is pre activated i.e. ready for immediate use . Alternatively the card can be automatically activated upon its disbursement from the machine or by the consumer making a toll free call to a customer service line or activated upon the user s first use of the card. The purchase of a card at a vending machine establishes a IPA VPL account for the purchaser. As an alternative to the preset association of a card to an account and dollar amount the association of the card to the account and the funding of the account can be accomplished dynamically as the user is purchasing the card.

Once purchased the cards can be accepted at ATM s and merchants that are outfitted with card readers. Since the cards are PIN protected they are safer than cash. The card has the IPA VPL account number as well as a PIN. The PIN is printed on a sticker affixed to the back of the card when the card is issued. The account number is stored on the magnetic stripe on the back of the card. The VPL portion of the account associated with the card can receive EFT credits as described above and can funded from other accounts as also described above. The card can be used to withdraw funds at an ATM and make purchases from any merchants that accept debit cards.

For card purchased by someone who did not previously have a IPA account in order to subsequently use EFT credit pushes as described above the card owner will be required to establish an IPA account with the sponsor of the card. For example if the sponsor was a bank the user signs onto bank s website the new card owner keys in the card number and PIN to synchronize the VPL with a newly created IPA account for the user. This synchronization will add the IPA account to the card link. The user can then specify against which account portion IPA or VPL debits will be made when using the card. The user will also be asked to indicate whether any funds received by the VPL will be swept to the newly created IPA or to an existing DDA account.

One specific embodiment purchasing and using a physical card is illustrated in . In step A the purchaser selects a card from either a vending machine or a vending enabled ATM not shown or other distribution outlet. In a preferred embodiment cards can be purchased for as little as a 1 or in larger ATM like increments. After making a selection the purchaser is prompted to pay for the card. Several purchasing options are available including cash debit cards and credit cards.

In step B the card is disbursed from the machine with a pre assigned PIN as well as instructions for using the card. The card is either pre activated or alternatively the dispensing machine sends an activation message to the card sponsor upon its purchase or the card is activated upon its first use or the user can phone in to activate the card. The distribution outlet e.g. vending machine also provides the purchaser with a printed receipt that can be used in the event that the user loses the physical card.

With the card in hand the user is able to withdraw funds from the account associated with the card or making store purchases using the card. In step C the card owner inserts the card into an ATM machine or a merchant card reader at a merchant s Point Of Sale Location. The user then keys in the PIN number to identify her or himself as the proper owner of the card. In step D the merchant s card reader which is connected to the EFT network transmits a debit message through the EFT switch to the sponsoring bank .

As similarly depicted in the debit message is seen as being received directly by the user s VPL account but in practice it is realized that all EFT messaging occurs through the systems of the bank . The message is transmitted to the bank as an online PIN debit transaction against the user s VPL account . Upon verification that there are sufficient funds available in the VPL account associated with the requesting card the transaction is authorized by the VPL sponsor and the funds are deducted from the balance in the VPL account . In step E the authorization message is transmitted back to the ATM or POS through the same EFT network and the funds are released to the card owner in the case of an ATM withdrawal or credited to the merchant store purchase in step F.

As described above with respect to the embodiments of in the pay anyone method of in steps A C the user logs onto the Internet launches its browser not shown in and launches its PPP . As readily appreciated in a traditional Wallet is not required to practice the essential features of the present invention as these features are enabled by the PPP . In the PPP operated as a stand alone component. The PPP requires that the user keys in its user ID and password by which the user is then authenticated and has access to their PPP . The user is then presented with its account balance information and can select from several options including Shop on the Web Pay Anyone Pay Bills Fund Wallet and Check Account Activity. In the present embodiment illustrated in the user in step D selects the Pay Anyone option from the menu and is prompted for the VPL number of the account associated with the card. The procedure set forth above with respect to the pay anyone method of is then followed.

In step E user s PPP generates a payment authorization with the following data Payee BIN Payee VPL number card number Transaction ID and dollar amount. After reviewing the information the user then selects OK to Pay on the workstation screen e.g. PC PDA . . . . In step F the user s PPP verifies the balance in the IPA account and passes the payment authorization to IPA if there are sufficient funds in the account to cover the transaction. As an optional step the payee information is validated i.e. the VPL account associated with the card is valid and is owned by the intended payee . In step G the EFT credit message is passed via the ATM switch from user s bank IPA account to the payee s bank VPL account .

The payee can withdraw the funds via an ATM through the use of the physical card as described above. When the withdrawal is requested a debit payment message is transmitted in step H from the payee s VPL account to the ATM provider bank not shown . The payee now has immediate use of funds and the withdrawal is made in step I. Alternatively the payee can use the card at a POS using the above described PIN debit procedure. As with the previous embodiments funds are settled once a day between the payor s bank the VPL user s bank and the ATM provider bank.

The present embodiment is well suited for many different situations. For example if a parent has a son or daughter away at college the parent has provided the child with a card and associated VPL account and is able to transfer funds to the child s account in a simple quick and cost efficient manner by use of the present invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above embodiment can be used by a customer of the bank to transfer funds to anyone such as the customer s gardener or a child at college as described above.

As is illustrated in the biller merchant first establishes an e billing relationship with its customer. One way in which the merchant might do so is to advertise its e billing service via e mail mail or on the Internet. In step A it is assumed the user has enrolled in the c bill service at biller s web site and is receiving monthly Email notification when bills are available. As previously described in step B the user logs onto the Internet launches its browser Wallet and PPP and is presented with the various menu options. In step C the user selects the Pay Bills option and is given several options in the Pay Bills menu screen including Pay Bills and Edit Billing information . Selecting the Pay Bills choice the user navigates to the biller s web site . It must be recalled that the Wallet already contains user s billing info.

Since web Wallet is active biller s website recognizes the user as a Wallet customer. In addition the biller s website in step D verifies that customer has an established e billing relationship. In step E the biller s site generates and transmits to the user a bill payment message that includes the following data Biller s BIN Biller s Account number Transaction ID and the dollar amount of the bill to be paid. In step F the bill payment message is received by the Wallet window and is displayed for review by the user. The user has several options including at least the choice to edit the bill e.g. the amount to be paid or the option to pay the bill as presented.

If the user selects the pay the bill option the PPP verifies the user s balance in its IPA account and passes the payment authorization to the IPA account while simultaneously transmitting a payment confirmation to the biller merchant s website or VPL Reporter step G . As alternatively shown the PPP can transmit the payment confirmation to the biller merchant s website or VPL Reporter . In response to the receipt of the payment authorization the EFT credit message is passed from the user s IPA account to the biller s VPL account via the ATM switch step H . A bill payment record is then generated and stored by the biller s Account Reporter in response to the receipt of the credit message from the EFT network .

In step J upon generation of the payment record which reflects the receipt of the funds to settle the bill the payment record is reconciled against the biller s accounts receivable files . As previously described with the VPL account and the Account Reporter a billing merchant can execute secure transaction fulfillment reconcile all its accounts while securely archiving all its records for later simple retrieval. As described above with respect to other embodiments funds are settled once a day between user s bank and the biller s bank step K . The funds can be swept to the biller s DDA or cash concentration account step L .

In step A the user enrolls in the e bill service at web site of the Customer Service Provider CSP . The e billing relationship between the CSP and the user is established either directly in response to advertising by the CSP or though the billers customers of the CSP advertising the services of the CSP to the users who are customers of the billers . While enrolling or at a later time the user selects which bills it wishes to receive and pay electronically through the CSP s service. The CSP can offer an archive service to billers in order to store transaction history as well as providing a customer service unit to resolve transaction inquiries.

After enrollment the user then begins to receive monthly email notification when bills are available from the billers chosen by the user. The e bill can be sent to the user either by the CSP or directly from the biller to the user. In this second method the biller must provide the CSP with an accounts payable file reflecting the e bills it sent out in order for the CSP to perform the below described reconciliation process for the biller . If the CSP is the party transmitting the e bills to the users the billers must provide the CSP with the billing information. Many types of record keeping methods are supported. The billers can push the billing information directly to the CSP s web site or alternatively the electronic bills can be channeled to the CSP via Spectrum or other electronic Internet bill payment aggregators.

Steps B and C are essentially the same as described above with respect to the direct bill paying embodiment of . The only difference is that after choosing the Pay Bills option instead of navigating to the biller s site directly the user navigates to the CSP s web site . In step E the user selects which bills to pay and keys in the dollar amount to be paid on each bill or selects the default which is to pay the entire amount of the bill that was presented to the user . In step F CSP site generates and transmits to the user one or more bill payment messages. In one embodiment the CSP generates a single payment message that includes the appropriate payment information for all of the bills paid during the session. In an alternative embodiment a separate payment message is generated for each of the bills paid by the user. In either embodiment the message would include the CSP s BIN the CSP s VPL account number a transaction ID or IDs the biller s name s and the dollar amount s .

Steps F through L are essentially the same as described above with respect to steps F through L of and the elements that are the same shall not be repeated. Although only a single VPL account is illustrated in it is appreciated that the CSP or the billers directly may maintain a VPL account for each biller. Regardless of whether there is a single VPL or several the billers themselves may view the contents of their receipts in the VPL through the CSP s Account Reporter . In step J the CSP performs the reconciliation process for each of its customers i.e. the billers . In Step L each biller s receipts are swept into their respective DDA or cash concentration accounts .

Steps A through C illustrate one method by which a user can install a Wallet . As previously stated the preferred embodiment includes an online banking system . The following example uses a fictional operator of the system denoted as XYZBank which acts as a PPP enhanced Wallet provider. In step A the user logs onto the Internet and uses its browser to navigate to the XYZBank.com site . In step B the user selects the Wallet option from main menu on the XYZBank.com site. On the Wallet screen the user is presented with two options Are you an Online Banking customer and Are you a Non XYZBank customer If user selects Online Banking customer the user is presented with a list of the accounts held by the user at the XYZBank that are supported by online banking. The user then identifies the account s to which the PPP enhanced Wallet will be linked. If the user desires a new IPA account can be established for the new PPP enhanced Wallet . If the user selects Non XYZBank customer their PPP enhanced Wallet is linked to an IPA account newly set up for the customer at XYZBank .

Next in step C the user sets up the PPP enhanced Wallet for use by choosing Install a Web Wallet from the menu. The user is instructed that its PPP enhanced Wallet will now be installed as a button on the browser toolbar. Once the software for the PPP enhanced Wallet has been installed on the user s system e.g. the user s PC or web server the user is prompted to provide some background information that will assist the user in making web purchases and payments. An example of some of the background information requested includes the user s shipping name address. At this point the PPP enhanced Wallet installation is complete and the user can perform any of the methods described above with respect to . As previously described using thin Wallet technology the majority of the software and data associated with the PPP enhanced Wallet resides on a server maintained by the XYZBank .

Steps D through K illustrate two methods of funding the PPP enhanced Wallet . For customers of XYZBank the primary method for initial and future funding of the PPP enhanced Wallet is performed through a link between the PPP enhanced Wallet and the Online Banking system as described above. The link between the PPP enhanced Wallet and the Online banking can be transparent and the user can sign on solely to its PPP enhanced Wallet and be seamlessly provided with the online banking functionality. For initial funding of the PPP enhanced Wallet the user selects move funds to from Wallet from an online banking menu. The user then provides the following information the source of the funds checking credit card savings etc. the dollar amount of the transfer the funding date and whether this is one time transfer or a repeat transfer. Upon completion of above the account associated with the PPP enhanced Wallet is funded. Subsequent funding of the PPP enhanced Wallet associated accounts can be done through the PPP enhanced Wallet itself or through the online banking system . In addition to funding via online banking instructions can be given for funding via phone ATM Kiosk or PDA or interactive TV .

Steps E through J illustrate a method of funding the PPP enhanced Wallet from an external credit e.g. cash advance from a credit card or debit card or an external DDA account external to XYZBank . For the Non XYZBank customer or an XYZBank customer wishing to fund the PPP enhanced Wallet externally the user in step E selects fund with a non XYZBank account . The user then selects the financial merchant of the account e.g. American Express VISA etc. and keys in account number expiration if applicable and the dollar amount of the funding transfer. The funding request is transmitted to a merchant acquirer associated with or part of XYZBank . This account information is stored for future funding requests.

In step F the merchant acquirer such as Chase Merchant Services authorizes the funding transaction and passes the request through the EFT switch . In step G the financial merchant e.g. VISA receives funding request via EFT switch and verifies the card number expiration and credit limit. If the funding is authorized by the financial merchant step H the funds are received by the PPP enhanced Wallet more specifically the IPA VPL account linked to the PPP enhanced Wallet step I . The funds settlement step J between the credit card s bank and user s bank typically occurs once per day. A similar process occurs when the funding is from a user s DDA account at another financial institution . In the above description with respect to it is appreciated that the procedure for establishing and funding a PPP enhanced Wallet equally apply to establishing and funding a PPP as a stand alone product.

In step H when the user agrees to make the EFT credit payment the user is given the option to fund the payment with his or her credit card. The PPP either already knows the user credit card number or prompts the user for the number. The PPP then contacts the credit card issuer as described above with respect to for authorization for the credit in the amount of the payment. When the authorization is returned the PPP transmits the credit to the IPA account simultaneously with the transmission of the payment authorization. The IPA account then has sufficient funds to transmit the EFT credit to the merchant s VPL account as described above. At the end of the day a settlement occurs between the bank and the credit card issuer in the amount of the credit. This settlement is similar to the settlement step M between bank and bank .

Using this embodiment of the present invention a user is able to continue to use its credit card for online purchases but because of the unique features of the IPA account and the EFT credit push the user only has to give its financially sensitive information i.e. credit card number to its trusted institution. In this embodiment the user of able to fund larger purchases than would normally be found in the IPA account .

Although the present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments thereof many other variations and other uses will be apparent to those skilled in the art. It is preferred therefore that the present invention be limited not by the specific disclosure herein but only by the gist and scope of the disclosure.

