---

title: Method and systems to dynamically enable and control communication link optimizations on a communication device
abstract: Embodiment methods and systems include external hardware that can be fitted to a wireless communication device that stores a communication application, communication presets and/or data that are downloaded to the wireless communication device where it may be implemented to optimize group communications on the wireless devices. The wireless device may be coupled to an external case configured with a physical button that enables group communication such as push-to-talk and other push-to-experience capabilities. Optimizations for push-to-talk communication may be implemented in a push-to-talk mode in response to detecting connection to the external hardware. Signaling between the external case and the wireless device allows detection of the switch to (or from) push-to-talk mode when a user depresses (or releases) the hard key.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143904&OS=09143904&RS=09143904
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09143904
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130305
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 606 746 entitled Method and Systems to Dynamically Enable and Control Communication Link Optimizations on a Communication Device filed Mar. 5 2012 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application relates generally to mobile communication device user interfaces and more particularly to enabling and controlling features of a mobile communication device by an external case.

Push to talk PTT is a well known group communication technology that is used in many applications in which there is benefit from a group of individuals being able to hear the same transmissions. Familiar examples include police fire rescue and delivery personnel.

Generally the number of smartphones that offer group communication capabilities such as PTT or other push to experience PTX capabilities is limited. There exist software applications that may be downloaded by a smartphone to provide the smartphone with a group communication capability. Generally this group communication software application may utilize the touch screen display user interface of the smartphone. For example a user may touch or tap an icon on the touch screen to utilize a push to talk service. Since the capabilities and optimizations that are used to enable high performance group communications tend to have high battery usage it is generally beneficial for a user to have the ability to turn off group communication mode when not in use such as through the software application.

However the use of a touch screen interface contrasts greatly with a conventional PTT walkie talkie type hard key which is typically mounted on the side of the communication device. Since smartphones lack a hard key PTT input button a user must look at the touchscreen in order to push the talk button which requires two hands and the user s visual attention. This makes smartphone group communication applications less desirable and inappropriate to many users of traditional PTT PTX communication devices which have a side mounted talk button that can be operated single handedly without a need to look at the device.

The various embodiments provide a method for enabling a communication link on a wireless device including detecting a connection between the wireless device and an external structure that includes physical buttons and a memory storing a communication application. When the wireless device is positioned in the external structure the communication application stored in the memory of the external structure may be downloaded to the wireless device. The wireless device may execute the downloaded communication application in order to establish a communication link. The established communication link may utilize the physical buttons on the external structure. The communication link established by executing the downloaded communication application may be different from communication links that the wireless device can establish when it is disconnected from the external structure.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms mobile communication device wireless device mobile device wireless communications device smartphone and computing device are used interchangeably herein to refer to any one or all of cellular telephones smartphones personal or mobile multi media players personal data assistants PDA s laptop computers tablet computers smartbooks palm top computers wireless electronic mail receivers multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones wireless gaming controllers and similar personal electronic devices which include a programmable processor and memory and circuitry for transmitting and receiving voice and or other data over a wireless communication link.

The term group communication is used in the following descriptions to refer to a type of communication link functionality that allows a user to simultaneously transmit from a calling device to one or more receiving devices without requiring an existing connection including but not limited to push to talk PTT communications such as push to talk over cellular PoC transmissions push to transmit PTX and other push to experience communications including but not limited to push to content transmissions push to PC calls push to SMS messages push to locate GPS signals etc. In the various embodiments such communications may be half duplex or full duplex communications and may be between a calling device and one or multiple receiving devices. Since PTT communications is a well known type of group communication the terms PTT PTX and PTT PTX are used herein in the description of the various aspects for ease of reference. However the use of PTT PTX and PTT PTX in describing the various embodiments is not intended to limit the nature of the group communication the methods or devices recited in the claims to PTT and or PTX to the exclusion of other types of group communication unless specifically recited in the claims themselves.

The terms jacket add on case external structure external case and case structure are used interchangeably herein to refer to any one or all of protective cases covers jackets skins shells pouches holsters and similar removable accessories for mobile devices.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The current portfolio of smartphones offering PTT and PTX capability is limited and is offered only by a handful of OEMs. Thus the choice of handsets for the end user is limited. In recent times smartphones have become capable of providing PTT and PTX functionality through software solutions such as downloadable or pre loaded applications on a variety of hardware platforms and mobile operating systems. Although this functionality provides flexibility in terms of device selection and obtaining the PTT PTX software implementing such functionality on typical smartphones takes away from the core PTT PTX experience of initiating communication through a dedicated hard key. In particular a hard key based PTT PTX experience is more intuitive and provides an easier transition for hardcore legacy PTT users e.g. iDEN . Moreover soft key and user interface UI based PTT PTX experience requires a user to look at the device screen to ensure that the right soft keys are tapped potentially leading to a high rate of false PTT PTX initiations. Further a soft key based UI takes up a sizeable portion of the screen space.

The various embodiments provide a user friendly mechanism for initiating communication link functionality such as PTT and other group communications capabilities in a wireless communication device in conjunction with a special handset jacket add on. In an embodiment the jacket add on is a PTT PTX external case that provides an exterior portion fitting the wireless device and one or more physical buttons or hard keys for executing the communication function. The communication link functionality may be provided or initiated by initiating or activating a communication application such as a group communication application downloaded or pre loaded onto the wireless communication device. While the type of communication link functionality that may be initiated in response to a depress of a physical button or key on the external case may be any type of communication for ease of description the various embodiments are described below with reference to PTT or group communications which are illustrative examples of communication link functionalities. However the claims are not limited to PTT or group communications unless specifically recited.

The various embodiments may be implemented on a wide range of mobile communication devices including most Internet enabled mobile phones smartphones and other wireless communication devices that are not manufactured with dedicated hardware e.g. a PTT button for group communication functionality. The external case according to an embodiment may also be configured with a switch based selector to enable the user to choose a specific communication mode or state. In this manner the external structure may allow dynamic switching between various communication modes and or various availability i.e. presence states on the smartphone through user manipulation of the switch. Examples of communication modes that may be selected through positioning of a mode selection switch include for example a full group communication mode a listen only mode an offline mode i.e. unavailable mode and a do not disturb mode to name but a few. Further manipulation of the switch may set the presence state information for the smartphone for incoming communications.

Push to talk PTT and similar group communication protocols typically use half duplex communication lines using a button to switch from voice reception mode to transmit mode. Such communications may be particularly useful in group work contexts such as on construction sites in control dispatches police fire and rescue situations and in other situations requiring coordination between several parties who will benefit from hearing all communications among all participants. Push to Talk over Cellular PoC is a service option for cellular phone networks that allows a subscriber to use his or her mobile phone in group communications much like a walkie talkie with unlimited range. PTT cellular calls also provide half duplex communications in which while one person transmits the other participant s receive. PoC combines the operational advantages of PTT with the interference resistance and other virtues of mobile phones.

As illustrated in the wireless communication device may be a wireless communication telephone with a graphics display but may also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a smartbook a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to an external network or the Internet. Further the memory may include any one or more of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform may also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but may be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display may present information about an ongoing group call or other group communication session.

The computer platform may also include a direct communication interface that can open a direct communication channel. The direct communication interface may also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless communication device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless communication device . The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

In this example the wireless communication operating system may include a PTT client that is configured to offer access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT client may include all the functions required to enable a wireless communication operating system application such as the media client . In an embodiment the PTT client may maintain access to PTT services respond to communication requests process all PTT aware wireless communication operating system applications requests for PTT services process all outgoing PTT requests collect and package vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parse packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

In some embodiments the software to enable PTT PTX functionality in the wireless communication device may be pre installed in the device during device manufacture. In other embodiments at least a portion of the software providing PTT PTX functionality may be downloaded to the device by the user. In some embodiments the PTT software may be a downloadable application e.g. a mobile application .

In an embodiment an operational connection of the wireless device and the PTT PTX external case may be accomplished by a physical connection. A physically connected configuration of a wireless communication device and PTT PTX external case is shown in . In this embodiment the PTT PTX external case may include a connection plug configured to mate with a network connection socket in the wireless communication device such as a USB socket or an iPhone 30 pin dock connector port thereby providing both a mechanical and electrical connection. In an alternative embodiment shown in the wireless communication device may detect a connection event by receiving a short range wireless signal communication e.g. Bluetooth NFC etc. from the external structure such as a PTT PTX external case . The PTT PTX external case may draw power for a Bluetooth module from a physical connection with the device for example through a smartphone specific port. Alternatively the PTT PTX external case may have its own power supply such as a small battery.

In an embodiment recognizing a connection event between the wireless device and the external case in block may be performed by software provided on the wireless device for example a PTT PTX case detection module. This PTT PTX case detection module may be either hardware port based or Bluetooth interface based depending on the type of connection between the PTT PTX external case and the wireless communications device.

In optional block the wireless device and the PTT PTX external case may exchange authentication information. This authentication information may be in the form of an identifier that is communicated from the PTT PTX external case to the wireless device that the wireless device can compare to stored identifiers to determine whether the case is the user s case is a brand or model of case approved for the wireless device etc. Similarly the wireless device may transmit an identifier that the PTT PTX external case can use to perform a similar verification function. For example the wireless device may be configured to only implement group communication features using a specific PTT PTX external case. Further the PTT PTX external case may be configured to only pass data and features to the user s wireless device thereby protecting against unauthorized use in case of theft. Therefore various credentials used for authentication may be exchanged using any of the various methods commonly known in information security.

In block an identifier may be communicated from the PTT PTX external case and may be received by the wireless device such as part of a handshaking procedure. The identifier may be for example a key code a secret value specified by the user or an organization providing the group communication capability or a value set by a manufacturer and stored in read only memory. Alternatively a simple chipset on the PTT PTX external case may store a hardware identifier which may be set at manufacturing or is programmable similar to a SIM card used in mobile communication devices. Using the identifier received by the communication link in block the wireless device may determine the type of the external case.

For example using the identifier the wireless device may determine whether the case is designated as specialized for particular group communication types. As another example the identifier or other code information communicated by the case to the wireless device may identify a features set that is configured on the PTT PTX external case i.e. PTT PTX optimizations . For example cases may be optimized or configured for specific function sets such as PTT PTT PTX alert only PTT with alert and other group call feature sets. So the identifier provided by the case may inform the wireless device of the type of case with which it is coupled.

As another example the PTT PTX external case may come preloaded with group definitions and be configured to pass on that information to the smartphone when the case is put on. This would allow the smartphone to have temporary access to that group while the case is on the smartphone. Alternatively the PTT PTX external case may be pre configured with canned messages emoticons allowing cases to be custom configured and optimized for particular users e.g. companies or organizations purchasing standard cases for their employees and to enable a richer experience for a given feature set.

In block the wireless device may activate a communication functionality in response to detecting the connection to the external case block . The type of communication functionality activated in block may depend upon the identifier received from the memory of the external case in block and or the type of feature set of the external case determined in block . For example if the identifier type or feature set indicates that the external case is configured for supporting PTT PTX communication links in block the wireless device may enable PTT PTX communication link functionalities and enable one or more of the features of the PTT PTX external case to prepare it for use in group communications. For example the wireless device may send a signal to the case to cause it to enable the PTT hard key and or activate a far field speaker and or a far field microphone if the case includes either or both of a far field microphone and far field speaker phone element . Also as part of activating the communication link functionality in block the wireless device may implement actions to optimize the device and its communication links with an external wireless network to commence group communications. For example a number of communication settings associated with conducting a group communication e.g. PTT PTX may be automatically implemented or requested by the wireless device in response to establishing the communication link with a case . Such automatic communication settings may include requesting a level of Quality of Service QoS suitable for group communication requesting a mobile data over signaling MO DOS which is a fast signaling channel over EVDO channels used in PTT and other group communication settings and setting the source cycling index SCI which controls the frequency at which the wireless device activates its radio to receive communications. Additionally the wireless device may set operating conditions to support group communications in block such as disabling its display screen disabling a touch screen etc.

In another embodiment the PTT PTX external case may be configured with stored contact information that is accessible to the wireless device while connected to the case. Such contacts may appear on the wireless device in one or more additional contact groups such as additions to the user s contact database. For example an employer may provide each employee with a PTT PTX external case that communicates an additional Work group contacts list to their employees personal wireless devices when the case is attached. Thus while at work employees may couple their personal wireless devices to the company provided PTT PTX external case in order to have ready access to groups of workers they will communicate with during the work day. In another embodiment the PTT PTX external case may be configured with information defining one or more groups of contacts that is to be stored in the wireless device memory. While connected to the PTT PTX external case a user s contacts stored in the wireless device may be assigned into various contact groups such as Personal and Work. In another embodiment a PTT PTX external case may also provide features that optimize communications with contact groups defined by the PTT PTX external case. In this manner employers can enable employees to own their own wireless communication devices that they use on their own time while ensuring employees have ready communication access to company groups resources and external authorities when they are at work.

In an embodiment the connection event may cause the mobile communication device and PTT PTX external case to activate a communication link functionality in the form of a group communication mode e.g. a PTT PTX mode an example of which is shown in . In block of method the wireless device may be received by an external structure for example a PTT PTX external case . In block a PTT PTX case detection module may detect a connection event. In optional block the PTT PTX case detection module may detect a position of a configuration switch such as a multi position switch see and determine from the switch position an optimization setting to be implemented on the wireless device e.g. full optimization medium optimization or no optimization . In response to detecting the connection event at the PTT PTX case detection module a communication link functionality in the form of a PTT PTT mode management module on the wireless device may be activated block and optionally communication optimizations may be implemented based on a switch position as determined in optional block .

Once activated the PTT PTX mode management module may function to allow switching between a plurality of possible PTT PTX modes and various PTT PTX optimization features that are available through the PTT PTX external case as described in further detail below with reference to .

As mentioned above the features set on a PTT PTX external case may provide a variety of different group communication e.g. PTT PTX optimizations that may all be automatically enabled on a wireless device when it is coupled to the case in block of method . Such optimizations may include for example enabling PTT PTX features that are customized to the type of PTT PTX external case size shape features etc. The PTT PTX optimizations may also include those relating to the quality of the PTT PTX communication. For example the PTT PTX mode management module may enable DOS Data over Signaling in order to speed up initiation of the PTT PTX communication. In another example the PTT PTX mode management module may select the proper paging signals for the lowest latency PTT communication. Further the PTT PTX mode management module may enable dynamic switching of vocoders and selection of optimal vocoder based on for example bundling factor interleaving factor etc.

In another example of optimizations that may be implemented in block in response to detecting connection to an external case the PTT PTX mode management module may enable an interface between the applications processor and modem processor of the wireless device so that the applications processor can access PTT communication optimizations e.g. DOS selection of paging signals vocoder selection etc. for running downloaded applications. Further the PTT PTX mode management module may load application specific data presets residing in memory on the PTT PTX external case. Such data presets may include for example user interface themes alert strings emoticons presence status etc. In this manner the features set provided by the PTT PTX external case connection may be further customized for a richer user experience or to implement employer desired features.

In another embodiment the PTT PTX mode management module may enable data transfers to the PTT PTX external case via an external network to which the wireless device is connected. For example when the wireless device and PTT PTX external case are connected together new features e.g. data presets hardware settings contact groups etc. and or updates to features already stored on the external case may be sent by a server over a wireless communication network and received at the wireless device. The PTT PTX mode management module may cause received features to be stored and implemented on the PTT PTX external case. Once the PTT PTX external case is disconnected from the wireless device the new or updated features may remain resident in memory of the PTT PTX external case.

In another embodiment the PTT PTX mode management module may enable or disable specific hardware features in order to optimize group communications in block i.e. in response to detecting coupling with a PTT PTX external case . Such hardware features may be present in the wireless device itself. For example the PTT PTX mode management module may disable a display and or touch screen of the wireless device thereby saving battery power. Additionally the PTT PTX mode management module may optimize group communications by enabling hardware features that are provided in the external structure. An example of an external structure according to this embodiment is illustrated in . The external structure may be configured for example with a hardware feature such as speaker . When the wireless device is connected with the external structure the PTT PTX mode management module may activate the speaker . illustrate alternative embodiments of a PTT PTX external structure in the form of a holster. In some embodiments a wireless device may be coupled with a case such as PTT PTX external case in and the case and or wireless device may be further coupled with a holster to enable PTT PTX features beyond those provided by the PTT PTX external case alone. In an embodiment the holster may be configured with various hardware features. For example as shown in holster may be configured with a far field microphone . When connected with holster the PTT PTX mode management module may activate the far field microphone in addition to the optimizations provided by the case. In this manner a user may be able to initiate group communications without removing the wireless device and case from the holster. illustrates another example a PTT PTX external case in the form of a holster that may be configured with a far field microphone and a far field speaker to support hands free group communications. When connected with the holster the PTT PTX mode management module may activate the far field microphone and the far field speaker thereby allowing the user to both initiate and receive group communications without removing the wireless device and case from the holster.

The PTT mode of the wireless device may be always on that is the device may continue to operate in the PTT mode for the duration of the connection to the PTT PTX external case . In order to revert to the normal state of the wireless device the PTT PTX case detection module may be configured to recognize when the wireless device has been removed from the case. For example in determination block of embodiment method shown in the PTT PTX case detection module may determine whether a disconnection event has occurred. So long as a disconnection event is not detected by the PTT PTX case detection module i.e. determination block No the wireless device may remain in PTT mode and receive process PTT communications. When a disconnection event is detected by the PTT PTX case detection module i.e. determination block Yes the PTT PTX case detection module may cause the PTT optimizations on the wireless device to be disabled in block such as by de activating the PTT PTX mode management module. Additionally as part of block the wireless device may also take other actions to revert to normal operations such as activating a display or touchscreen reverting to normal SCI settings requesting a QoS level commensurate with normal cellular telephone operations and deactivating a MO DOS channel if open. These deactivations may be taken without user action or knowledge so that removing the wireless device from the PTT PTX external case automatically configures the device to function as a normal phone. As part of block the case may also take actions to deactivate all group communication e.g. PTT capabilities or settings such as deactivating a speaker and microphone.

In addition to providing a set of features that support PTT PTX communications on a wireless device such as in PTT mode a PTT PTX external case may be configured to allow a user to choose to activate less than all of the enabled features by selecting one of a plurality of particular communication modes states. In an embodiment method shown in a mode selection switch such as a multi position switch see on the PTT PTX external case may be configured to implement different user presence settings and hardware or software features sets in addition to PTT PTX optimizations. In method blocks and may be identical to blocks and of embodiment method described above. In block the PTT PTX case detection module may detect the current position of the mode selection switch on the PTT PTX external case. In block based on the mode selection switch position the wireless device may apply a specific user presence status enable a particular hardware or software features set or activate the PTT PTX mode management module in order to activate a PTT PTX optimization mode. These options that may be provided on the PTT PTX external case by the mode selection switch in the various embodiments are described in further detail with respect to .

In an embodiment illustrated in a PTT PTX external case may be configured with a mode selection switch to enable a user to manual select different operating modes. The mode selection switch may interface with the PTT PTX mode management module to instruct the wireless device regarding a sub set of PTT PTX optimizations that should be activated hardware features that should be enabled or disabled and or any other settings that should be implemented in the selected mode.

For example a user may move the mode selection switch to select any one of the various communication modes that are provided by the PTT PTX external case e.g. one of four modes as illustrated in . Each of the communication modes may be associated with a sub set of the features that are supported by the PTT PTX external case creating a user presence state for various group communications that is based on the selected communication mode. In another example the PTT PTX case may be configured with a plurality of communication features sets with each position of the mode selection switch associated with a difference features set. In addition the user s contacts or other designated group may be able to see an indication of the communication mode in which the user s wireless device is presently configured and or be informed when the user switches to a different communication mode. Thus parties attempting to communicate with the user in a group communication may be informed in advance of the user s presence state for that type of group communication thereby informing the parties in advance whether such communication is optimized and or enabled on the user s device.

For example in a Do Not Disturb or alert only communication mode a wireless device may activate all group communication optimizations provided by the PTT PTX external case except for activation of the speaker. When a PTT communication is sent to wireless device in Do Not Disturb mode the user may receive a voice note or other group communication alert indicating the attempted communication instead of receiving the group communication talk spurts through the speaker. In another example when the wireless device is in a mode in which the capability for receiving talk spurts is disabled e.g. a Do Not Disturb mode if a group communication is attempted the wireless device may be configured to automatically transmit an incomplete call notification to the sender.

In another example the PTT external case may support a Listen Only selectable communication mode. In a listen only mode a wireless device may activate the optimizations provided by the PTT PTX external case that relate to receiving group communications including the speaker but deactivate features that would allow the user to initiate or communicate in group communications. In another example the PTT PTX external case may support an Unavailable communication mode. In this communication mode the wireless device may disable all group communication optimizations thereby providing the same effect as if the wireless device were removed from the case with the possible exception of physical settings commensurate with being within the holster or external case such as deactivation of the display or touchscreen.

As discussed above the PTT PTX external case may include a physical button or hard key or button which a user may depress to initiate a group communication session or transmit a PTT communication talk spurt. In an embodiment pressing the hard key may initiate a group communication session via the wireless communication device e.g. a PTT communication talk spurt .

A software application enabling PTT functionality may cause a wireless device to respond to hard key events on the PTT PTX external case . illustrates an embodiment method of initiating a PTT PTX communication on a wireless device connected with a PTT PTX external case as described above with respect to and on which group communication optimizations are enabled as described above with respect to . In block of method a user input may be received by circuitry in the in the form of a key press at a hard key on PTT PTX external case. For example the hard key of the PTT PTX external case may include conventional circuitry for detecting the key press which in an embodiment may be connected to a Bluetooth wireless transceiver. In block a key press code or other function code or symbol may be communicated to the wireless device via Bluetooth or via network port. In the embodiment including a Bluetooth wireless transceiver the button circuitry and transceiver may be configured to establish and maintain a Bluetooth link between the case and the smartphone for the duration of the time that the wireless device is running the group communication software application and to transmit the key press code or symbol to the smartphone via the Bluetooth link when the physical button or hard key is depressed. In an embodiment in which the external case circuitry plugs into a network socket on the phone e.g. USB iPhone dock etc. the button circuitry may be configured to communicate a key press code to the smartphone processor via the wired network connection or interface. In both embodiments a PTT PTX application for example running on the wireless device may interpret the received key press code as a push to talk activation event that initiates a push to talk function in block . In an example embodiment the PTT PTX application may be running on the wireless device. In another example embodiment the PTT PTX application may be fully or partially resident on the modem processor and the presence of the PTT PTX external case may cause the PTT PTX mode management module to load data presets. In block the push to talk communication i.e. push to talk transmission is initiated with a device of a contact as if a touch on a touchscreen interface had been received. In this manner the physical button or hard key on the PTT PTX external case takes the place of a PTT virtual key that would otherwise be implemented on a touch screen interface of the wireless device by the PTT PTX application.

The manner in which the PTT PTX application interprets the key press code as initiating a push to talk function may vary based on the type of connection between the PTT PTX external case and the wireless device. In an embodiment in which the wireless device is connected to the PTT PTX external case by a physical connector port e.g. a smartphone specific connector port when a user depresses the physical button or hard key the transmitted key press code may trigger a hardware interrupt within a processor of the wireless device. That is the key press code transmitted to the wireless device may function as a key press event notification signal. This key press event notification may trigger a PTT hard key interrupt subroutine which calls a PTT hard key interrupt handler that causes the events to be translated to user actions on the application. The subroutine and the PTT hard key interrupt handler may be provided by the PTT PTX application.

In an alternative embodiment in which the wireless device is connected to the PTT PTX external case by a Bluetooth interface the interpretation of a received key press code may involve steps related to receiving the signal via the Bluetooth link performing normal wireless signal verification and error correcting operations to obtain the transmitted symbol interpreting the received symbol to recognize that it corresponds to a key press event and then passing a key press event notification to the PTT application software.

Operations for determining when a user releases the hard key indicating termination of a talk spurt or PTX session may be accomplished in a manner similar to the operations described above for recognizing and acting on the depression of the hard key by the user.

The material size and shape of the PTT PTX external case may be designed to fit different types of wireless communications devices. For example illustrates a flip phone shown in its opened and closed positions. Due to the relative motion of the two flip phone pieces a PTT PTX external case designed for such a wireless device requires allowance for such motion. An example PTT PTX external case designed to hold a flip phone is shown in . In this embodiment the PTT PTX external case is configured in a pouch shape to receive the flip phone in a closed configuration. In this manner should a user wish to open the flip phone to make a conventional call or check a display e.g. to read an SMS message or email the phone can be easily removed by lifting it from the PTT PTX external case .

There are a variety of components that may be incorporated in a PTT PTX external case in order to implement the group communication capabilities described above on a wireless device. The PTT PTX external case may further include a power supply such as a lithium ion battery to power a Bluetooth transceiver. In some embodiments the PTT PTX external case may include a data storage device e.g. memory and a controller e.g. processor or CPU configured to execute instructions associated with group communication functionality for example PTT PTX functionality in the PTT PTX external case and through the PTT PTX application. The data storage device may have the PTT PTX application software stored thereon which may be downloaded to the smartphone memory to execute the application and to communicate via push to talk. The PTT PTX application may be configured to perform further functions within the wireless device for example to cause the wireless device to power down the touch screen display in order to save power when communicating via PTT PTX.

A PTT PTX controller may be implemented on a single chip multiple chips or multiple electrical components. For example various architectures may be used for the PTT PTX controller including dedicated or embedded processor single purpose processor controller ASIC etc. The PTT PTX data storage device may be read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory and combinations thereof. Such components may be implemented on a single chip multiple chips or multiple electrical components. The PTT PTX data storage device may alternatively or additionally include a solid state disk a hard disk drive e.g. a micro drive and or an interface socket for receiving removable storage device or memory cards e.g. SD cards . In addition to the hard key related to PTT PTX functionality the PTT PTX external case may include additional input devices for example additional buttons or keys touch pads touch sensing surfaces or mechanical actuators such as buttons switches keys or wheels.

In a further embodiment systems and methods enable off loading of communication link application logic such as including PTT PTX optimizations triggering logic to the processor and memory incorporated in the external case or holster. In this embodiment the mobile communication device may be a plain vanilla smartphone without any PTT PTX or group communication application or software to accomplish associated optimizations. Instead the communication device may just provide operating system OS resources and IP connectivity to the PTT PTX or group communication applications that are preloaded or running on the external case holster. Such preloaded PTT PTX or group communication applications may include the communication application package optimization presets and supporting data. This embodiment is illustrated in .

In this embodiment an operator may sell pre authorized PTT PTX applications loaded in memory on external cases or holsters . When a user snaps the case or holster on the user s smartphone a communication application loaded on the case or holster may be downloaded to the smartphone via a communication connection such as a short range RF link e.g. a Bluetooth link . The downloaded communication application plus any optimization presets and feature presets may be implemented on the smartphone s processor.

In this embodiment the case or holster includes memory which may be onboard memory e.g. FLASH memory and or memory slots e.g. for example microSD card slots on which may be stored the application binary code. The operator may pre load a pre authorized PTT PTX application presets and supporting data onto the memory . Alternatively the operator may sell pre authorized PTT PTX applications on memory cards that can be inserted into PTT PTX case or holster memory slots.

In this embodiment the pre authorized PTT PTX application may be preloaded with an obfuscated shared secret aka access code which is known to a PTT PTX server . This access code permits service to the smartphone when it is mated with a case . This access code may enable the smartphone to access the PTT PTX service without the need for user signup or account creation process like a plug n play service . The case or holster may come pre configured with a pre authorized application download link software and provisioning data. The case holster memory may have stored on it a link to download the application. This link may be pre authorized such that when the application download request is made the request includes the access code which may be the hardware ID of the case and or stored in the memory in the case and which is known a priori to the server .

The case or holster may also have components similar to those of other PTT PTX external cases described in the above embodiments. For example the case or holster may include a Bluetooth wireless transceiver a smartphone specific connector port a selector switch and a PTT PTX re purposable hard key .

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable or processor readable storage medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module which may reside on a non transitory computer readable storage medium or processor readable storage medium. Non transitory computer readable and processor readable storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer or processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

