---

title: System and method for orchestrating mobile data networks in a machine-to-machine environment
abstract: A method is provided in one example and includes receiving network utilization data associated with an access network, determining an expected network utilization for a predetermined time period based upon the network utilization data, and determining pricing information for the predetermined time period based upon the expected network utilization. The pricing information includes at least one price rate for communication between at least one application and at least one client device utilizing the access network. The method further includes sending the pricing information to the at least one application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414215&OS=09414215&RS=09414215
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09414215
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131004
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to providing a system and method for orchestrating mobile data networks in a machine to machine M2M environment.

The phenomenal growth of mobile networking is presenting mobile operators with tremendous opportunities along with corresponding challenges as they race to add capacity and services to meet accelerating demands. Mobile operators worldwide are seeing tremendous growth in mobile data subscriptions and bandwidth usage. The emergence of free over the top and offnet applications and services such as those from Skype gaming vendors and applications stores is impacting the return on investment ROI of mobile operators. Consumers can utilize these applications and services which use the operator s network without providing even an incremental usage fee to the mobile operator. While operators benefit in the near term with new subscriptions long term there are profitability challenges from the explosion of data traffic. To take advantage of the mobile Internet explosion mobile operators must add value to third party service transactions. This value can be extracted in terms of new revenue and profit. Without this value add mobile operators risk becoming simply a bandwidth bit pipe provider. As a result it is critical for mobile operators to invest strategically in their network assets allowing them to launch new services and go beyond flat rate data plans. In current networks various pieces of information like location of a subscriber and the reachability of a subscriber etc distributed in various network elements throughout the network and there is no single entity in the network that can aggregate the information present in the different network elements correlate the information and feed that information to various external entities.

A method is provided in one example and includes receiving network utilization data associated with an access network determining an expected network utilization for a predetermined time period based upon the network utilization data and determining pricing information for the predetermined time period based upon the expected network utilization. The pricing information includes at least one price rate for communication between at least one application and at least one client device utilizing the access network. The method further includes sending the pricing information to the at least one application.

In a particular embodiment the method further includes sending a request including the network utilization data to an analytics component and receiving a response including analyzed network utilization data from the analytics component. In still another particular embodiment the determining of the expected network utilization is based upon real time and historical analyzed network utilization data.

In another particular embodiment the method further includes receiving location data associated with a location of the client device within the access network wherein the determining of the expected network utilization is further based upon the location data. In still another particular embodiment the method further includes receiving a subscription request from the at least one application for pricing information associated with utilization of the access network. In still another particular embodiment the method further includes sending the pricing information to a billing system.

In another particular embodiment at least one application is configured to determine whether the pricing information meets pricing requirements of at least one application send a request for sensor data to the client device during the predetermined time period when the pricing information meets the pricing requirements and receive a response including the sensor data from client device utilizing the access network during the predetermined time period. In still another particular embodiment the pricing information includes different price rates associated with different service classes.

In a particular embodiment the client device includes a machine to machine module. In a particular embodiment the method further includes correlating an access network identifier associated with the client device to an external identifier associated with the client device. In still another particular embodiment the external identifier is used to identify client device by an application platform associated with the at least one application and the access network identifier is used to identify the client device within the access network.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram showing a high level architecture of a communication system for orchestrating mobile networks in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a server including a network service and subscriber abstraction module . The network service and subscriber abstraction module includes a network infrastructure and service abstraction layer an application 3rd party application programming interface API gateway and enterprise service BUS . Server further includes a network services layer a network management system NMS and analytics module .

Communication system provides for monetization architecture for mobile networks. Issues facing service providers today includes creating services targeted for both the enterprise and consumer markets in a rapid fashion dynamically optimizing the network to drive efficiencies enabling a third party application developer eco system to easily leverage the power of the network and providing enforceability of service level agreements between the network and the application developer. One or more embodiments of the architecture described herein address these issues. Various embodiments allow a mobile service provider fixed line provider and or large enterprise to create a platform which exposes network capabilities and allows application developers and walled gardened applications developers to leverage the power of the network allowing service providers to monetize the capabilities of the network by optimizing the infrastructure creating a service framework that allows service providers to quickly and efficiently create new service offers and defining a set of criteria including Quality of Service which may be monitored enforced and relied upon. Various embodiments provide an architecture to integrate with the existing capabilities that the service provider provides while avoiding rip and replace scenarios and ensuring faster time to market.

Network services layer provides for the management of network services within communication system . In a particular embodiment network services layer may provide one or more of identity management service management policy management device management and subscriber data management. Identity management enables a service provider to manage subscribers across all applications device types and access types. In a mobile context the Identity management functions may reside within one or more of a home location register HLR home subscriber server HSS and authentication authorization and accounting AAA server. Service management enables a service provider to manage services application charging rating functions across all access types device types and subscribers. In mobile a mobile context the service management functions may reside in one or more of an online charging system OCS and an offline charging system OFCS . Device management enables a service provider to manage device behavior when interacting with different access and applications. In a mobile context the device management functions may reside in a Open Mobile Alliance device management OMA DM function and Access network discovery and selection function ANDSF but may in other embodiments also extend into operator specific implementations that allow modification of device parameters security parameters application interaction etc.

Policy management enables a service provider to define rules based on various input parameters from identity service device management functions network functions analytics functions coupled with internally defined rules e.g. time of day promotional to determine how a specific service for a specific subscriber on a specific device at a specific instant e.g. real time at a specific location e.g. cell tower when connected to a specific network is to be treated. In a mobile context the policy management functions may reside live in a policy and charging rules function PCRF . Subscriber data management enables a service provider to deliver real time services that reflect individual preferences of subscriber. Subscriber data management may encompass the overarching service layer management workflow items and underlying an service layer management database that allow for multiple structured or unstructured pieces of information to be stored and aggregated into a holistic user profile . The subscriber data that is managed may include identity information authentication information personalization information policy settings and settings for specific services. In a particular embodiment the subscriber data management includes a Subscriber Profile Repository SPR .

NMS manages the network elements also called managed devices within communication system . In a particular embodiment NMS may include discovery fault event monitoring and provisioning of network elements. Device management may include fault configuration accounting performance and security management. Management tasks include discovering network inventory monitoring device health and status providing alerts to conditions that impact system performance and identification of problems their source s and possible solutions. NMS may further collect device statistics and may maintain an archive of previous network statistics including problems and solutions that were successful in the past. If faults recur NMS may search the archive for the possible solutions. Analytics module analyzes network traffic received by server in real time and provides for a view of network use within communication system . Analytics module may include analysis profiling modeling and database functions.

In accordance with one or more embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module is configured to either collection information or data or facilitate other functions from collecting information or data from various network elements within communication system . In the case of collection network service and subscriber abstraction module is configured to abstract the data by examining one or more correlating factors between collected data such as an Internet Protocol IP address or mobile subscriber identifier combine the correlating data together based upon the correlating factors into a consistent store of data which can be later accessed and utilized. As a result network service and subscriber abstraction module creates structured data from unstructured data. Network service and subscriber abstraction module is configured in at least one embodiment to collect data from one or more of network services layer NMS and analytics module for abstraction and storage. The abstraction function provides a stateless communications plane for service aggregation and protocol conversion. The abstraction function is stateless but in various embodiments the database is not stateless. In one or more embodiments the collection of data may be an active pull in which network service and subscriber abstraction module is pulling information from a particular network element. In other embodiments the collection of data may be an active push in which a network element is pushing specific information to network service and subscriber abstraction module on configured thresholds or time windows. In still other embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module may collect the data in a passive manner as the data passes through it. The abstraction layer includes a mobile IP network enabler that provides a service aggregator function. The aggregation function provides for collection and coordination of real time network subscriber application intelligence such as packet core probes and other elements for service enablement. An API gateway provides a protocol translation function securely enabling deeper integration with third parties. OSS integration provides billing and settlement integration into existing OSS as well as 3rd party Service Brokers to provide orchestration workflows.

Server is in communication with a client device a radio access network infrastructure network infrastructure and M2M applications through network infrastructure and service abstraction layer . In a particular embodiment client device may include any mobile client device such as a mobile telephone a smartphone or a tablet. In a particular embodiment client device may include mobility analytics virtual desktop infrastructure VDI virtual experience infrastructure VXI unified communications and collaboration UC C video and administration functions. RAN infrastructure include hardware and software configured to implement radio access network functions and may include operations maintenance center radio OMC R small cell eNB NB BTS RAN optimization RRH BBU and radio network controller RNC functions. Network infrastructure includes hardware and software configured to implement wired network infrastructure functions and may include optical routing legacy IN Ethernet MPC and location functions. M2M applications are configured to provide M2M application functions to fixed or mobile subscribers. In particular embodiments the M2M functions may include a Machine Type Communications Interworking Function MTC IWF and a Service Capabilities Server SCS .

Network service and subscriber abstraction module is further configured in at least one embodiment to collect data from one or more of client device RAN infrastructure network infrastructure and integrated M2M applications for abstraction interworking and storage.

Server is further in communication with enterprise applications via application 3rd party API gateway and operator OSS infrastructure via enterprise service bus . Enterprise applications provide third party services and operations support systems OSS services to subscribers in the network. In particular embodiments enterprise applications may include an application server and OSS functions. In one or more embodiments enterprise applications may provide enterprise applications to communication network . In particular embodiments enterprise applications may include collaboration video communications and email services hosted either within or without the enterprise systems. Operator OSS infrastructure supports processes such as maintaining network inventory provisioning services configuring network components managing faults taking orders processing bills and collecting payments. In a particular embodiment operator OSS infrastructure may include billing customer care service fulfillment and service assurance components. The enterprise OSS may include customer care enterprise service application fulfillment employee asset tracking information security rules and other enterprise functions. The billing component may include retail billing which enables operators to generate a customer bill based on service plan usage promotions and other OSS interactions and enabling third parties to leverage operator billing systems for charging a subscriber such as for an in app purchase that appears on the customer s bill allowing third party Wi Fi providers to bill the subscriber or service delivery platform interaction e.g. ringtone download . The billing component may also differentiate enterprise data usage that is relevant to work tasks from consumer data usage that is relevant to personal tasks from the same device with the same subscriber identity. The billing component may also enable an analytical based approach to understanding subscriber billing trends as a means of providing information to an operator that might facilitate service creation campaign creation pricing etc. This may be for a prepaid user or an enterprise shared data plan user in which case the billing system also manages quota balance in real time converged across multiple access types and postpaid.

The customer care component may include customer interaction systems to provide channels for customer self service enterprise IT self service and direct machine to customer information customer relationship management to provide sophisticated marketing sales and operational support to the service provider agents who interact with the customer and subscriber management software to support care agents and direct customer interaction. The service fulfillment component may include systems to provide order management systems to orchestrate the steps needed to implement customer orders handle interdependencies requests to other content service providers CSPs cloud service providers and enterprise platform as a service PaaS and manual work orders. The service fulfillment component may further include inventory management systems to track the inventory available to supply services in the network assign resources design network connections and discover network configurations and reconcile them with inventory records. The service fulfillment component may further provide for activation to automatically configure network equipment and network serving systems to provide a subscriber requested service and engineering tools refers to support engineers who plan design install and configure networks and services including planning and design tools outside plant and geographical information systems and network installation and configuration tools.

The service assurance component may include service management systems to link customers with their individual services and enable CSPs to generate granular reports on each customer and service to validate service level commitments. The service assurance component may further include performance monitoring systems to collect circuit switched and packet data from the network elements and element management systems supplied by equipment manufacturers and provide reports for operations staff. The service assurance component may further include workforce automation software used to track incidents resulting from service disruption and effectively dispatch field resources and probe systems rely on dedicated hardware and software agents to collect signaling and media data from the network. In at least one embodiment the various components of communication system may interoperate to provide professional services including business consulting design consulting product related services system integration outsourced operations and hosted management services.

In various embodiments network server and subscriber abstraction module is configured to provide the abstracted information obtained from data sources within communication system such as client device to an information consumer such as one or more of enterprise applications and operator OSS infrastructure which uses the information to provide some value added service to subscribers in the network as will be further described herein. In one or more embodiments the structured correlated database is what allows northbound systems such as enterprise applications and operator OSS infrastructure to function more effectively.

In the particular embodiment illustrated in network services layer NMS client device RAN infrastructure M2M applications the application server of enterprise applications have push pull data connections with network service and subscriber abstraction module . Further in the particular embodiment illustrated in analytics module network infrastructure the OSS functions of enterprise applications and the component of operator OSS infrastructure have a pull connection with network service and subscriber abstraction module . In still other embodiments the one or more components may have push connections pull connections or both push and pull connections with any other component.

The phenomenal growth of mobile networking is presenting mobile operators with tremendous opportunities along with corresponding challenges as they race to add capacity and services to meet accelerating demands. Mobile operators worldwide are seeing tremendous growth in mobile data subscriptions and bandwidth usage. The emergence of over the top and offnet applications and services such as those from salesforce.com Skype gaming vendors and applications stores is impacting the return on investment ROI of mobile operators. Consumers can utilize these applications and services which use the operator s network without providing even an incremental usage fee to the mobile operator. While operators benefit in the near term with new subscriptions long term there are profitability challenges from the explosion of data traffic. To take advantage of the mobile Internet explosion mobile operators must add value to third party service transactions. This value can be extracted in terms of new revenue and profit. Without this value add mobile operators risk becoming simply a bandwidth bit pipe provider. As a result it is critical for mobile operators to invest strategically in their network assets allowing them to launch new services and go beyond flat rate data plans. In current networks various pieces of information like location of a subscriber and the reachability of a subscriber etc distributed in various network elements throughout the network and there is no single entity in the network that can aggregate the information present in the different network elements correlate the information and feed that information to various external entities.

The current challenges for creating new services may include Long time to availability typically twelve to eighteen months to enable services service silos building one service doesn t always help build the second service personalization each service has unique requirements no killer application market conditions vary between operators and regions and lag in response times it is difficult to quickly create or modify services in response to market trends. In the case of Machine to Machine M2M operator margins and service cost points are much lower than consumer driving a requirement for even more efficient service and network infrastructure. While operators have significant challenges they also have significant market advantages and unique value. For example application developers are often clamoring to leverage information only available in the network. Application provider challenges include restricted or no access to the network limited visibility into accurate location information in high volume no real time access lack of desire to understand or communicate with the complex operator topology difficulty in correlating multiple sources vendors and lack of standard interfaces to carrier applications services.

Mobile operators have the opportunity to leverage the key asset in their networks real time subscriber application and network intelligence and build an architecture that harvests this intelligence to monetize the network. Various embodiments described herein provide a monetization architecture that increases service velocity quickly enabling multiple use cases while providing a platform for application developers to leverage the network. This may provide increased revenue for both the operator and application developers while enhancing the subscriber experience.

At least one embodiment solves the problem of abstracting out data from different sources and organizing the data into a coherent format that can be translated into one or more external protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Constrained Application Protocol CoAP and Message Queue Telemetry Transport MQTT . Diameter is an authentication authorization and accounting protocol for computer networks and is described in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments RFC 6743. Existing systems are not capable of determining which source of a plurality of sources contains the information requested correlating data from multiple sources perform analytics and present the information in a coherent format in a network wide scalable way. In addition existing systems require more than one entity to perform similar functions but still lack scalability to provide network scale solutions.

In various embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module may further function as a data flow engine that incrementally correlates the data from various sources to extract useful network wide information. This along with high horizontal scalability allows network service and subscriber abstraction module to provide network level abstraction to applications and OSS systems in Enterprise Applications . In various embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module collects network wide data performs a set of transformations on the data and correlates the data to make it presentable in a coherent format that can be used by entities outside network service and subscriber abstraction module .

In particular embodiments communication system provides for a flexible mobile architecture framework that enables operators to quickly create and modify use cases for monetization by harvesting abstracting and monetizing intelligence from the network. Monetization uses which may include such services as general consumer control points targeted ad insertion video Femto Wi Fi location presence information collaboration telepresence congestion control telematics remote video surveillance automatic metering infrastructure ATM POS remote monitoring automation information display IMS cloud voice and video over LTE and messaging. Many of these monetization uses involve communication from one machine to another without any manual intervention and the communication flow and data produced from the communication flow are relevant only to the machines.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram showing an embodiment of a hierarchical architectural framework of a communication system for orchestrating mobile networks in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure. In the embodiment of communication system includes four hierarchical layers. A first layer a network layer includes client device radio access network RAN infrastructure network infrastructure and M2M applications . The network layer may include fundamental network elements of one or more mobile packet core platforms and the services contained within these platforms. A second layer may include a network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module analytics module and network management services component . A third layer may include a network services and a fourth layer may include higher level services and applications provided by a service provider including third party applications mobile applications enterprise applications OSS BSS elements and other billing network management and third party and or operator applications. In a particulate embodiment the third party application is provided by a M2M service provider and includes an independent OSS BSS system specifically for the M2M service provider. In a particular embodiment network services NMS analytics and network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module may be embodied within a server . Network infrastructure includes an Internet Protocol network enabler IPNE client that performs an interworking function to interface the network layer elements of the mobile packet core with network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module . In a particular embodiment network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module interfaces with capabilities of the mobile platform via Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Extensible Markup Language XML and RESTFul interfaces as transport mechanism to expose these capabilities using an XML schema. XMPP is a communications protocol for message oriented middleware based on XML. XML is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents. Representational State Transfer REST is a style of software architecture for distributed systems and includes requests and responses built around the transfer of representations of resources. A resource can be essentially any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed and a representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource. Typically a client begins sending requests when it is ready to make a transition to a new state. The representation of each application state may contain links that may be used the next time the client chooses to initiate a new state transition. Conforming to REST constraints is generally referred to as being RESTful. Capabilities and data that are exposed is stored in network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module database as will be further described herein. The network layer may further include other components that make up the network platform including client side capabilities providing linkages to other domains.

In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module contains sub elements including a API gateway service delivery platform mobile IP network enabler MINE component a service directory component a resource manager component and an orchestration work flow engine . MINE component functions as an interface layer to IPNE client and contains a central storage to store network information such as call records and network structures that may be later accessed. In a particular embodiment central storage may be based upon a distributed file system structure and may be accessed by an XMPP interface. Access to the lower layer and requesting information from the network layer is performed through MINE component . MINE component provides a single entry point to the network and also orchestrates network requirements.

Services directory component is configured to publish network capabilities and resource availability for higher layer services. Resource manager component is configured to publish network capabilities and resource availability for applications such as third party and operator applications. In various embodiments service directory component and resource manager component perform publishing of these capabilities directly through MINE component. In particular embodiments service directory component and resource manager component publish capabilities through MINE component using an interface such as an XMPP interface. In still other embodiments service directory component and resource manager component publish capabilities through MINE component using application 3rd party API gateway .

API gateway service delivery platform exposes capabilities to the higher level services and applications of the fourth layer such as third party applications mobile applications OSS BSS elements and other billing network network management and third party and or operator applications. In a particular embodiment API gateway service delivery platform exposures capabilities to the higher level services and applications of the fourth layer via a standards based GSMA OneAPI interface by the Groupe Speciale Mobile Association GSMA . In another particular embodiment API gateway service delivery platform exposures capabilities to the higher level services and applications of the fourth layer via a standards based OneM2M APIs. API gateway service delivery platform is further configured to provide adapters to standard service provider billing and backend systems. In at least one embodiment the combination of these layers allows a service provider to rapidly implement new service and features. Orchestration work flow engine is configured to orchestrate various network elements and coordinate workflows between network elements using MINE component as will be further described herein.

Analytics module provides functions including leveraging data store provided by MINE component and analyzing network status based upon request from orchestration work flow engine and responding via a specific trigger that may be applied to the network via a policy function. In a particular embodiment MINE component is configured to interface with analytics module via an XMPP interface and or standard mobile interfaces. In one or more embodiments analytics module may contain an analytics engine component a modeling component a profiling component and a visualization component. In various embodiments analytics module subscribes to information that is contained in data store of MINE component that analytics module and analytics module may uses this information to perform historical trend analysis. In some embodiments MINE component may be further configured to send real time feeds of data to analytics module so that analytics module may perform immediate processing of the data and or respond to one or more triggers. In another embodiment MINE component may request a query be performed on data making analytics module subservient to MINE component or more specifically making MINE component a controller of analytics module . MINE component may then trigger particular actions based on a query response received from analytics module .

Network services may provide one or more of identity management policy management service management device management and subscriber data management functions that may exist within a service provider network. MINE component is configured to provide a link between the functions provided by network services and other network elements.

In accordance with various embodiments one or more of the network elements of communication system such as the mobile packet core of network infrastructure and the TDF PEP optimization and IMS elements of M2M applications may be subscriber aware network elements that are aware of the identity of a subscriber utilizing the network elements or services. Further in various embodiments network services include subscriber databases such as the HSS HLR PCRF OCS and SPR. In accordance with various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module provides interconnection between the subscriber aware network elements and the subscriber databases. In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module orchestrates and coordinates workflow between the subscriber aware network elements and subscriber databases and provides protocol translation between the various network elements and databases. In a particular embodiment the subscriber is the M2M module itself.

In accordance with various embodiments the above described framework allows service providers to easily offer services related to their network capabilities dynamically optimize those capabilities and create an environment which enables rapid service enablement. Various embodiments of the described architecture allow a mobile service provider a fixed line provider and or large enterprises to create a platform which exposes network capabilities and allows application developers and walled gardened application developers to leverage the power of the network. Various embodiments may allow service providers to monetize the capabilities of the network by optimizing the infrastructure and then creating a service framework that allows service providers to quickly and efficiently create new service offers. In at least one embodiment the above described architecture integrates with the existing capabilities of the service provide to avoid rip and replace scenarios and ensures faster time to market.

One or more embodiments may provide one or more advantages including leveraging the existing service provider environment to eliminate a rip and replace scenarios and allowing easy access to network capabilities which have historically been very difficult for application developers and service providers to access.

In one or more embodiments create a policy framework having three fundamental elements including policy network abstraction and orchestration and analytics tied together in conjunction with network access. Various embodiments provide a service creation environment that ties these elements together into existing service provider OSS BSS systems. Various embodiments of this framework may be used to create run multiple different services such as business to consumer B2C business to business B2B machine to machine M2M and security services. Further one or more embodiments one or more embodiments may provide a massively scalable framework that may be deployed in a cloud based architecture.

In an example workflow network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module receives a service request from enterprise applications such as a vehicle infotainment application to a module associated with a vehicle. In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module provides protocol translation between network elements. In a particular example the request from the third party provider is formatted as an CoAP request. The request includes a request for a guarantee of a particular quality of services for a predetermined time period. In response orchestration work flow engine generates a DIAMETER request from the CoAP request and sends the DIAMETER request to the policy management such as the PCRF of network services to determine if the service request meets one or more policies associated with the subscriber. Orchestration work flow engine may also generated a DIAMETER request to the identify management service such as the HSS of network services to determine the identity of the subscriber associated with the service request generate a DIAMETER request to OSS BSS to determine if the billing system will allow the service request. Orchestration work flow engine may further send a request to the mobile packet core of network infrastructure to determine if there is any congestion in the network. Orchestration work flow engine may further send a request to the RAN Optimization of RAN infrastructure to determine if there is congestion on the radio interface. In still other examples orchestration work flow engine may request information from analytics module to determine based on historical information stored by analytics module whether the network will be congested in the predetermined time period. Based on responses to these various requests orchestration work flow engine may determine whether the initial request from the enterprise provider will be allowed.

In orchestration work flow engine sends a request to a billing service to perform a prepaid check to determine whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In a particular embodiment the billing system is an OCS. In the billing service performs the prepaid check to determine whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In particular applications of M2M in which there are no prepaid users operations and may not be performed in some embodiments. In orchestration work flow engine receives a response from the billing service indicating whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In orchestration work flow engine sends a request to the policy management service regarding whether the service request complies with one or more programmable policies. In various embodiments the programmable policies are access control policies that are programmable such as by an application or administrator. In the policy management service performs a check to determine whether the service request complies with the one or more programmable policies. In orchestration work flow engine receives a response from the policy management service indicating whether the initial request complies with the one or more programmable policies.

In orchestration work flow engine may call an external application programming interface API in instances in which a third party services needs to be invoked to satisfy the initial service request. In a particular embodiment the call to the external API is a call to an external HTTP endpoint associated with the external API. In a particular embodiment the API is the standard OneM2M API. In orchestration work flow engine creates a settlement for the service request. In orchestration work flow engine sends a charge request to the billing service in order to request a charge for the service. In the billing system performs a prepaid charging change in order to charge the subscriber for the created settlement. In orchestration work flow engine receives a prepaid charging response indicating that the prepaid charging change has been performed.

In orchestration work flow engine determines whether to grant access to the requested service to client device . In at least one embodiment orchestration work flow engine determine whether to grant access to the requested service by correlating the responses received from the network elements and services and making a decision based on the responses regarding whether the service request will be granted. For example in a particular embodiment if any of the responses in the chain or responses indicate that the service request should not or cannot be granted orchestration work flow engine will not grant the service request to client device . For example if the PCRF indicates that the service request will not satisfy a particular policy if analytics module indicates that there will not be available QOS for the predetermined time period necessarily to provide the requested service or if the OCS indicates that the subscriber will not have enough balance remaining to pay for the requested service orchestration work flow engine may indicate that the requested service will not be granted to client device . In orchestration work flow engine sends an outbound response message to client device indicating whether the client device is granted access to the requested service. In a particular embodiment the outbound response is an HTTP outbound response.

Network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module is in further communication with one or more network elements . In the illustrated embodiment the one or more network elements include short message service center SMSC multimedia messaging service center MMSC mobile platform controller MPC Session Initiation Protocol SIP Proxy server billing service M2M platform and PCRF SPR . In the particular embodiment illustrated in SMS translation module MMS translation module location translation module and voice call control translation module are in communication with network gateway translation module and payment translation module is in communication with billing service . Data connection translation module QOS profile translation module and zonal presence translation module are in communication with MINE . NGW is in further communication with SMSC MMSC MPC and SIP proxy server . MINE is in further communication with M2M platform and PCRF SPR

Each of protocol translation modules and network gateway translation module are configured to receive a message such as a request formatted in a first protocol format and translate the message to be formatted in a second protocol format. In the illustrated embodiment of each protocol translation modules is configured to receive a message formatted in a first format . In a particular example first protocol format is in a M2M format such as Message Queue Telemetry Transport MQTT or Constrained Application Protocol CoAP . Protocol translation modules may be configured to translate the message received in the first protocol format to a second protocol format and communicate the translated message to NGW . Payment translation module may be configured to translate the message in first protocol format to a third format and communicate the translated message to billing service . Protocol translation modules may be configured to translate the message in the first protocol format to a fourth format and communicate the translated message to MINE . In a particular embodiment fourth protocol format is an XMPP protocol format. Network gateway translation module may be further configured to translate the message received from each of protocol translation modules in second protocol format translate the message into a fifth protocol format and communicate the translated message to network elements . MINE may be configured to translate message received from protocol translation modules in fourth format to a sixth protocol format and communicate the translated message to network elements 

In orchestration work flow engine queries the mobile packet core of network infrastructure for an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI corresponding to the network address. In orchestration work flow engine receives the IMSI corresponding to the network address from the mobile packet core. In orchestration work flow engine queries an identity management database for a subscriber identifier ID associated with the IMSI. In a particular embodiment the subscriber ID is a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSIDN or a mobile phone number associated with the M2M module. Although particular embodiments have been described using IMSI and MSIDN identifiers it should be understood that in other embodiments any type of subscriber identifier may be used. In at least one embodiment the identity management database is an HSS HLR. In orchestration work flow engine receives the mobile network subscriber ID associated with the IMSI from the identity management database. In the external identity is mapped to the mobile network subscriber ID and the IMSI. In orchestration work flow engine stores the mapping of the external identity subscriber ID and IMSI in the cache associated with orchestration work flow engine .

In orchestration work flow engine provides the subscriber ID and or IMSI to one or more network elements that will use the IMSI and or subscriber ID to fulfill the request for service. If it is determined in that the external identity and mobile network subscriber ID mapping are found in the cache associated with orchestration work flow engine the operations continue to in which orchestration work flow engine retrieves the mobile network subscriber ID and IMSI mapping to the external identity from the cache and proceeds to . After the operations end at . By caching of the mapping of the external identity and externally understood IP address to the subscriber ID IMSI and mobile network understood IP address subsequently requests including the external identity do not require another query of the network elements such as the identity management database or mobile packet core to determine the mobile network subscriber identity and IMSI and IP address mapping.

In orchestration work flow engine receives a first communication message from a first network element having a first protocol format. In orchestration work flow engine translates the first communication message to a second communication message having a second communication protocol format. In orchestration work flow engine sends the second communication message to a second network element.

In orchestration work flow engine determines whether a response to the requester is required. If a response to the requester is required orchestration work flow engine sends a response to the requester in and the operations continue to . If it is determined in that a response to the requestor is not required the operations continue to . In orchestration work flow engine determines whether modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases is required by the workflow. If modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases within communication system is required the operations continue to . In orchestration work flow engine modifies the one or more network elements and or subscriber databases. In particular embodiments the modification of configuration information or other data within the one or more network elements and or subscriber databases.

In a particular example RAN optimization system of RAN infrastructure detects congestion and notifies PCRF of network services that there is congestion through orchestration work flow engine . The PCRF may instantiate a workflow that requests that video optimization be instantiated for all heavy network users that are nearing their limit on the amount of data that they can consume for the month. Accordingly the PCRF may initiate a workflow in which the orchestration work flow engine determines me the heavy users who are nearing their quota limitation by querying the analytics module to determine who are the heavy users query the online charging system to determine the users who are nearing their quota return a response to the PCRF. The PCRF may instantiate a rule which enforces video optimization for these users and triggers a service path where traffic associated with those users goes to the video optimization.

The operations then continue to in which the operations end. If it is determined that modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases is not required the operations continue to in which the operations end.

In M2M service provider sends an Upgrade Notification message UpgradeNotify to UE indicating that there will be an additional charge to utilize the requested service. In the user accepts the charge. In UE sends an Upgrade Confirmation message UpgradeConfirm to M2M service provider . In M2M service provider sends a Boost Request BoostRequest to NAL . In NAL sends a Service Profile Request SvcProfileRequest to PCRF requesting user profile information associated with the user of UE . In PCRF sends a Service Profile Response SvcProfileResponse to NAL including the user profile information. In NAL sends one or more Policy Charging Control PCC Requests PCCRequest1 . . . x to one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x . In one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x sends one or more PCC Responses PCCResponse1 . . . x to NAL .

In NAL performs orchestration of a BSS OSS and external network elements necessary to provide the requested service. In NAL sends a Boost Response BoostResponse to M2M service provider . In network elements NE1 . . . x send one or more Resource Update messages ResourceUpdate1 . . . x to NAL . In NAL sends one or more acknowledgement messages Ack1 . . . x to one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x . It should be understood that each of the messages exchanged between the network elements and subscriber databases may be received in a particular protocol format utilized by the sending network element and translated to a particular protocol format utilized by the receiving network element.

Although the particular embodiment illustrated in shows server as including a single node it should be understood that in other embodiments server may include any number of nodes. In still other embodiments a cluster may be formed of any number of processing nodes distributed throughout a number of servers or other network elements within a communication network.

In still other embodiments mobile IP enabler MINE component is configured to provide for integrated signaling between one or more network elements associated with a mobile data network and one or more network elements associated with enterprise networks. In particular embodiments MINE component provides a network address translation function in which an identifier such as an Internet Protocol IP address associated with a particular M2M module is mapped to an identifier such as a VIN used by an enterprise M2M service to identify a particular user. Examples of enterprise services offerings that may be provided to the user equipment device by one or more enterprise networks include telematics in vehicle infotainment and ATM POS systems.

In the illustrated embodiment application platform includes API management module and one or more application modules . In at least one embodiment API management module may be configured to access API gateway and application s may be configured to receive and process sensor information received from M2M module . Application platform is in further communication with an end user and one or more access network s . In one or more particular embodiments access network s may include one or more wireless networks one or more wired networks or a hybrid of wireless and wired networks. In a particular embodiment access network s may include one or more of a RAN infrastructure and or other network infrastructure. In particular embodiments access network s may include a core network including policy enforcement and mobility management functions.

Network service and subscriber abstraction layer is in further communication with a billing system . Access network s is in further communication with a M2M module . In a particular embodiment billing system may include an OSS BSS including billing rating settlement business intelligence and enterprise resource planning ERP customer relationship management CRM functions. In the illustrated embodiment M2M module includes a device application module for executing one or more device applications and one or more sensors associated with M2M module for capturing sensed data.

Communication system further includes a network address translation NAT module coupled between application platform and access network s . In one or more embodiments NAT module is configured to correlate an access network identifier such as a mobile network subscriber identity associated with M2M module with an external identifier associated with M2M module used by application platform .

As will be further described herein in various embodiments MINE component is configured to receive network utilization data and or other network data associated with one or more networks such as access network s and determine pricing information for the use of the networks at a particular time period based upon the utilization data. In one or more embodiments MINE may send a request to analytics module to analyze the received network utilization data and analytics module may analyze the network utilization data using current utilization data and or historical utilization data to model expected network utilization during a predetermined time period. MINE component may be further configured to receive the analyzed utilization data from analytics module determine pricing information for use of the networks at one or more particular time periods and send the pricing information through API gateway to application platform . Accordingly in one or more embodiments MINE component may transmit messages through API gateway up to application s such as third party applications to inform application s of an advertised price to utilize access network s to transfer data between M2M module and application s . End user may use the advertised pricing information to make a determination regarding when it is desired that M2M Module is to transmit data of a certain type and or class. Based upon the pricing information application platform may determine whether to use the network within the particular time period. MINE component may be further configured to send the pricing information to billing system so that billing system may charge application platform for use of access network s at the current rate as determined by MINE component . Accordingly when a rate change decision is made by MINE component it will inform billing system of the new rate information indicating a particular rate within a particular time period. In particular embodiments multiple classes of service for different classes of users could be used in which each class of service has a different pricing rate. For example MINE component may advertise a certain price for M2M applications and a different price for content caching applications at the same time.

In the particular embodiment illustrated in application s may be configured to request sensor data from M2M module during a time period having an acceptable rate for data utilization of access networks s and device application of M2M module may be configured to capture sensor information from sensor s and transmit the sensor information to application s during the predetermined time period. In a particular instance end user may determine that certain data for which it is not important to receive the data in real time should be transmitted when there is low utilization on access network s when module application may pass traffic across access network for a lowest cost. In another instance end user may determine that certain data is desired to be received in real time regardless of cost.

In an example implementation of a machine to machine application M2M module may be configured at one or more oil well sites to provide telemetry data to application s of application platform . For example end user may desire to receive reports indicating how many gallons were pumped operating conditions wear life on a pump motor pump pressures etc. on regular intervals. Traditionally end user may be required to pay whatever costs the provider is charging for use of the access network at the time that the data is transmitted. However wireless networks undergo significant utilization peaks and troughs in which an operator may want to lower the cost of delivering traffic when there is little traffic on the network and raise the cost of delivering traffic when the network is busy. Typically commuting during rush hour is a peak time on the network. In an M2M application some telemetry data may be somewhat time sensitive but not so time sensitive that the data is required in real time. For example for hourly pump updates it may not be necessary for application platform to receive the data exactly on the hour. The third party application may instead schedule the update when it is more cost effective for delivery of the data. In addition it may be desired to collect other statistics daily such as maintenance conditions and pump pressure. In another example end user may wish to capture an image of the pump mechanism every day so that it can be examined for wear or some other visual condition that can only be determined visually. However the image data may be fairly large. If application platform has cost information regarding the price of transmitted the data application s may be configured to implement business logic indicating that the image information does not need to be received in real time and as a result it is desired to receive the data at the lowest cost offered. In contrast it may be desired to transmit an indication of a fault in the oil well immediately after detection of such a fault regardless of cost so that the oil well may be brought back online as soon as possible to minimize loss in money due to the inactivity of the oil well.

In some embodiments MINE component may utilize location information of M2M module so that advertised bids for network use may be determined based upon network utilization in the network at a particular location. In a particular example MINE component may advertise a high price for a first location a moderate price a second location and or a low price for a third location. In an example operation of communication system MINE component collects utilization data from access network s such as RAN infrastructure and or network infrastructure to determine utilization of access network s .

In a particular embodiment MINE component may provide the utilization data to analytics module and analytics module performs analytics and statistical modeling of network utilization such as averaging of utilization over a period of time to determine an expected utilization of access network s at one or more predetermined time periods. Analytics module may be configured to provide information indicative of the expected utilization of access network s at the one or more predetermined time periods to MINE component . MINE component may then determine pricing information for utilization of access network s at the predetermined time periods for one or more classes and or types of traffic and advertise the pricing information through API gateway to particular application s that have subscribed to receiving the pricing information. In a particular embodiment MINE component may advertise a current rate as well as a projected rate schedule based on the results received from analytics module . your analytics estimate . In various embodiments a rate may be advertised in a variety of ways such as a specific bit rate for a specific price ex. 0.03 per 100 kb or in particular rate categories such as high medium or low rate categories.

In some embodiments MINE component may be configured to determine and advertise a new current rate for a given interval in response to an unexpected change in network utilization and application s may make a determination regarding whether it wishes to utilize access network s at the new rate. For example in a situation in which there is an emergency such as a natural disaster and network utilization increases greatly an operator of access network s may not want M2M applications sending data during this time because they were previously informed that the particular time period would have a low rate. Accordingly MINE component may immediately advertise a new increased rate for M2M applications in order to discourage usage by M2M applications during this time.

In still other embodiments MINE component may receive regarding current network utilization and change the current pricing information accordingly. For example MINE component may offer a low rate for M2M applications and receive feedback that a large number of M2M applications have taken advantage of the low rate to transmit information. MINE component may allow such usage for an advertise interval such as an interval of one minute and then offer a medium rate to try to back off usage of the network.

Service layer is in further communication with service broker . In a particular embodiment service broker includes publish subscribe event management session management data aggregation scheduling and directory components. In at least one embodiment service layer may be in further communication with OSS BSS and NMS . In the particular embodiment illustrated in MINE component includes network abstraction layer and service broker network service subscriber abstraction layer includes MINE component as well as partner management lifecycle management device identity management and policy resource management components. In the particular embodiment illustrated in OSS BSS further includes billing rating settlement business intelligence and enterprise resource planning ERP customer relationship management CRM components. In the particular embodiment illustrated in NMS may include address management DNS management fault management and configuration management components.

In a particular embodiment service broker is provided by an operator. Service broker is in further communication with network abstraction layer . In a particular embodiment network abstraction layer module includes network selection protocol translation internetworking and value based routing components. Network abstraction layer is in further communication with access network s . In a particular embodiment access network s includes a wireless core network including policy enforcement and mobility management components.

In one embodiment application platform may communicate with M2M module using native communication to push pull data directly through access network s without passing through network service subscriber abstraction layer . In another embodiment M2M module may communicate with network abstraction layer module via access network s and network abstraction layer module communicates the data to application platform through API gateway using direct messaging. In still another embodiment M2M module may communicate with service layer module via access network s and service layer module communicates the data to application platform through API gateway .

In one or more embodiments M2M module may communicate with application platform via access network s using service broker . In such an embodiment one or more applications may send a request to service broker to be notified when it receives pricing information from MINE component that meets particular requirements of the one or more application . When service broker receives pricing information that meets the particular requirements service broker sends a message to the particular application indicating that the requirements have been met. Application s may then determine whether to utilize the network at the advertised price. For example application s may send pricing requirements to service broker to indicate that it wishes to utilize the network if it receives a low price within the next twelve hours and utilize the network at a medium price if it does not receive a low price within twelve hours. In particular embodiments application platform may communicate with MINE component using an extended GMSA OneAPI or OneM2M protocol.

In MINE component receives location data associated with a location of M2M module within access network . In various embodiments the location of M2M module may be determined by a base station and or by the reception of global positioning system GPS signals. In MINE component determines expected network utilization for a predetermined time period based upon one or more of the analyzed network utilization data and location information. In an alternative embodiment instead of sending the network utilization data to analytics component and receiving analyzed network utilization data MINE component may be configured to determine the expected network utilization for the predetermined time period based upon one or more of the received network utilization data and location information.

In MINE component determines pricing information for the predetermined time period based upon the expected network utilization. In one or more embodiments the pricing information includes at least one price rate for communication between at least one application and at least one M2M module utilizing access network . In various embodiments the pricing information may include different price rates associated with different service classes. In one or more embodiments service classes may be based upon a service class associated with one or more of a data type or a particular user. In various embodiments the pricing information may include a pricing schedule for one or more service classes. In MINE component sends the pricing information to the at least one application . The at least one application may use the pricing information to determine when it may wish to receive data from M2M module . In MINE component sends the pricing information to billing system to enable billing system to charge the appropriate rate to the at least one application during the predetermined time period. The operations then end.

If the pricing information does not meet the pricing requirements of application the operations return to in which application waits for receiving the next pricing information from MINE component . If the pricing information meets the pricing requirements of application the operations continue to . In a particular embodiment the operations may continue to if pricing information meeting the pricing requirement of application has not been received within a certain period of time.

In application sends a request for sensor data to M2M module during the predetermined time period of the advertised pricing information. The request includes a request for M2M module to send sensor data to application utilizing access network . In application receives a response including sensor data from M2M module utilizing access network during the predetermined time period. The operations then end.

In one implementation server includes software to achieve or to foster the operations as outlined herein in this Specification. Note that in one example each of these elements can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments the operations may be executed externally to these elements or included in some other network element to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively server may include this software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other network elements in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Note that in certain example implementations the orchestration work flow coordination and translation functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory element as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In one example implementation server may include software in order to achieve the functions outlined herein. These activities can be facilitated by sub modules of network service subscriber abstraction and orchestration module where sub modules can be suitably combined in any appropriate manner which may be based on particular configuration and or provisioning needs . Server can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the data abstraction activities as discussed herein. Additionally server may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the operations as disclosed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein e.g. database tables trees cache etc. should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the example provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication systems and and their teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication systems and as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the steps in the preceding flow diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within communication systems and . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by communication systems and in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain endpoint components and certain protocols communication systems and may be applicable to other protocols and arrangements. Moreover the present disclosure is equally applicable to various technologies aside from mobile architectures as these have only been offered for purposes of discussion.

Additionally although communication systems and have been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication systems and .

