---

title: Mobile device application analysis
abstract: A mobile telecommunications device runs a plurality of applications installed on the device (for providing services to the device user). Monitoring means monitors the performance of the applications for generating performance data (for each application), and analyzing means analyzes the performance data (for each application) and to identify characteristics of the applications in dependence thereon. The mobile device may alert a user of the device of the problematic ones of the applications (for example via the GUI of the device). A mobile telecommunications device application performance analyzing apparatus may be coupled to the mobile telecommunications network that provides mobile telecommunications services to a plurality of mobile telecommunications devices and may receive the performance data and which includes analysis means for conducting analysis of the performance data to identify characteristics of the applications in dependence thereon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119015&OS=09119015&RS=09119015
owner: Vodafone IP Licensing Limited
number: 09119015
owner_city: Newbury
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20131118
---
The present invention relates to apparatus including a mobile telecommunications device having processor means operable to run a plurality of applications installed on the device for providing services to the device user and monitoring means operable to monitor the performance of the applications for generating performance data. The present invention also relates to a corresponding method.

Surging data demand driven by the mobile devices mind set of consumers the proliferation of smartphones and onset of the use of applications apps on mobile devices is revolutionising the mobile industry. In 2010 smartphones accounted for more than 30 percent of total wireless handset sales. The uptake in smartphone usage is mostly driven by mobile apps which while using Internet in the background offer a personalised experience to the user. A study from the Pew Internet Project illustrates that one in four US adults use mobile apps. App users had an average of 18 apps on their devices and a median of 10 the study estimates.

However due to the open nature of apps ecosystem any developer can upload an application to the source of applications e.g. Android Market or Apple s App store without any quality assurance checks. This results in a large number of malicious applications making their way to smartphones that attempt to take advantage of user s proclivity to ignore permissions and other warning signs and install whatever looks good to them. Some of the apps are truly dangerous while others are simply not well written e.g. not optimised so that they consume excessively device battery power and or the user s data allowance such as by sending unnecessary traffic to the network .

Current methods of rating applications are typically very simplistic. Typically applications are rated according to how many times they have been downloaded. This is not particularly useful to a user as applications that are downloaded frequently may be deleted shortly thereafter if they are unsatisfactory.

Today an important proportion of returned smartphones is the result of problems with apps and software rather than hardware. Moreover in a smartphone dominated marketplace the performance of mobile apps is regarded as an important component of network operator selection and customer loyalty. It would be advantageous to offer a capability to users to make informed decisions while downloading applications monitor real time apps performance control their privacy and properly manage the apps on their smartphones. Moreover with a better visibility of customer s smartphones apps performance network operators could take predictive customer actions e.g to offer customers upgraded services through product and channel intervention.

Raw data collection gathering software is known in the form of an application which a user can download on their smartphone or may be pre installed that interacts with other applications running on the smartphone in real time in the background and monitors their performance in terms of battery consumption CPU usage data consumption user privacy settings and app experience data rate latency . However although such an application can collect data it does not use analyse the data to improve the user experience or network performance and nor does it offer a solution for monetising the data.

It is in theory possible for the core of a mobile telecommunications network to analyse data sent to from mobile terminal applications but it is difficult to identify to which application data relates and impracticable to identify traffic relating to a particular application relating and to a particular mobile device user. Analysis at the network core even if possible does not provide representative data of application use as about 80 of data traffic from mobile terminals is currently transmitted over WLAN radio access networks rather that cellular networks.

In one aspect the present invention provides apparatus including a mobile telecommunications device having processor means operable to run a plurality of applications installed on the device for providing services to the device user and monitoring means operable to monitor the performance of the applications for generating performance data for each application the apparatus further including analysing means operable to analyse the performance data for each application and to identify characteristics of the applications in dependence thereon.

The performance data in the embodiment is such that the application and or device to which it relates is identifiable. This facilitates analysis of performance data relating to a particular application and or device.

The characteristics identified by the analysing means may indicate a problematic application. A problematic application may be one which consumes excessive resources. For example a problematic application may be one that consumes excessive power one that causes excessive data throughput at the device data reception and or transmission or one that is accessing and transmitting personal information from the devices to the internet without prior user permissions.

The apparatus may include alerting means for alerting a user of the device to the problematic ones of the applications. For example a message may be given to the user via the GUI of the device which identifies the problematic ones of the applications. This may allow the user to take action to solve the problem. The alert may indicate what steps the user should take to solve the problem.

The analysing means may be operable to take action to mitigate the effect of a problematic application. For example the analysing means might cause the application to be updated to an improved version which no longer causes the problems. The analysing means may limit the data throughput allowed for the particular problematic application.

The analysing means may be operable to stop a problematic application running. The analysing means may automatically uninstall a problematic application.

The analysing means may comprise part of the mobile telecommunications device. For example the analysing means may be an analytics client hosted by the mobile telecommunications device. The analysing means may be contained within the housing of the mobile telecommunications device.

Alternatively the analysing means may be coupleable to the mobile telecommunications device via a wireless link. The analysing means may be an analytics engine present in an analytics server which is coupled to the mobile telecommunications device via a mobile telecommunications network. The analysing means may be operable to receive performance data from a plurality of sources and to analyse the performance data to identify characteristics of applications associated with each of those sources. The analysing means may be operable to generate analytics data relating to different instances or versions of corresponding applications running on plurality of devices and or associated with a plurality of sources. The analytics data may provide information about the same application being used on several different devices. The analytics data may also relate to different versions of the same application running on devices of different types such as a map or messaging application which is used in a first version on a device with a Windows operating system and in a second version on a device using an Android operating system. The analytics data may provide information such as how when and or where an application is used. This information may be made available to developers of the application so that they can improve the application. This information may also be provided to a prospective user of an application before installation of the application e.g. through the application store so that the prospective user can make an informed decision whether to install the application.

An analysing means may be provided as part of the mobile device and as an element separate from and coupleable to the mobile device via a wireless link.

The analysing means may be operable to cause communications destined for a data network such as the Internet to bypass at least a portion of a mobile or cellular telecommunications network and to use an alternative data route between the device and the data network. The analysing means may cause the communications to bypass the core of the mobile telecommunications network such as the parts of the mobile telecommunications network excluding the base stations with which the mobile telecommunications device communicates BTS in 2G node B in 3G and eNodeB in 4G . Such communications may be transmitted from the base station to a direct link with the data network such as the Internet. This saves using resources of the core network to process the data.

The alternative data route between the device and the data network may bypass a mobile telecommunications network entirely. For example an access point such as a WLAN access point may connect to the mobile telecommunications device wirelessly and route communications from the mobile telecommunications device to the Internet.

The analysis means may comprise an analytics server and the analysis means may be operable to send the performance data and or analytics data from the mobile device to the analytics server via the core network when the alternative data route is in use for user data. Further the analysis means may be operable to store the performance data at the mobile device while user data is being transmitted using the alternative data route and transmit the stored performance data to an analytics server when user data is transmitted via the core network.

In the embodiment analysing means has been provided in association with a mobile telecommunications network in the form of an analytics engine . In the embodiment such an analytics engine may receive performance data from the monitoring means relating to the applications even when the mobile telecommunications device bypasses the mobile telecommunications network. This may be achieved by the monitoring means storing the performance data temporarily and then transmitting the performance data to the mobile telecommunications network when the mobile telecommunications network is no longer bypassed in its entirety. In this way the monitoring means may be operable to monitor the performance of the applications when communications are transmitted via the network and via the alternative data route.

Means may be provided for varying the quality of service QoS provided for communications relating to one or more of the applications. For example a particular application of a particular user may be given preferential quality of service over other applications of that user. In this way the quality of the experience provided by the application may be maintained even when the network bandwidth available for that user is reduced.

The means for varying the quality of service may be operable to vary the quality of service based the performance data analytics data and or the analysis of the performance data.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a mobile telecommunications device including processor means operable to run a plurality of applications installed on the device for providing services to the device user monitoring means operable to monitor the performance of the applications for generating performance data for each application and analysing means operable to analyse the performance data for each application and to identify characteristics of the applications in dependence thereon.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a mobile telecommunications device application performance analysing apparatus for coupling to a mobile telecommunications network that provides mobile telecommunications services to a plurality of mobile telecommunications devices each of which mobile telecommunications devices is operable to run a plurality of applications and each of which mobile telecommunications devices includes monitoring means for monitoring performance of the applications for generating performance data the analysing apparatus being operable to receive the performance data and which includes analysis means for conducting analysis of the performance data to identify characteristics of the applications.

There are two main features of the embodiment to be described which build upon the known raw data collection 

1 Mobile application a mobile device dashboard displays all the information collected by the raw data collection software in a GUI Graphical User Interface and analyses the data to prompt warn customers of any malicious activity and or poorly performing applications. The mobile application locally processes the data collected by raw data collection software to identify potentially problematic applications on the device high resource use high data usage etc. with the possibility of providing recommendations for solving these problems locally. The mobile application may also obtain information from an analytics server regarding the behaviour and performance of particular applications and may present this to the user before installation of the application e.g. through the application store interface so the user can make an informed decision whether to install the application. This may be achieved by the monitoring means scanning a future application signature the user wants to download and by investigating with the analysis means about the expected performance of that application. It is to be noted that the analysis means may builds a global view of different applications interacting with the monitoring means on a large number and range of mobile devices. Hence a pre download verification may be performed by the monitoring means and prompts the user accordingly to proceed with download. 2 Analytics server the mobile device application dashboard may share this analysis with a central server in the network while working in the background without customer notice intervention to generate a wider pool of analytical data to understand a customer s application portfolio apps experience and data consumption preferences.

The network based analytics server may collate the data from multiple devices and process the data for the purposes of 

The mobile application dashboard may be an application which a customer can download on their smartphone or may be pre installed that interacts with other applications running on the smartphone in real time in the background and monitors their performance in terms of battery consumption CPU usage data consumption user privacy settings and app experience e.g. data rate latency . The dashboard may display all this information in a GUI and prompt warn customers of any malicious activity and or poorly performing applications. In addition the dashboard may share this analysis with the central analytics server in the network while working in the background without customer notice intervention to generate a wider pool of analytical data to understand customer s application portfolio apps experience and data consumption preferences.

Key elements of a 3G mobile telecommunications network and its operation will now briefly be described with reference to .

Each base station e.g. Node B and Femto corresponds to a respective cell of the cellular or mobile telecommunications network and receives calls from and transmits calls to a mobile terminal in that cell by wireless radio communication in one or both of the circuit switched or packet switched domains. The mobile terminal may be any portable telecommunications device including a handheld mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop computer equipped with a network access datacard.

The nodeB or Femto can be considered to comprise two main parts a radio frequency part radio unit and a baseband part. The radio frequency part handles the transmission of radio frequency signals between the antenna of the nodeB or Femto and the mobile terminal and for converting radio frequency signals into digital baseband signals and vice versa . The baseband part is responsible for controlling and managing the transmission of the baseband signals to other components of the mobile telecommunications network.

In a macro 3G network the Radio Access Network RAN comprises Node Bs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs . The Node B is the function within the 3G network that provides the physical and transport radio link between the mobile terminal User Equipment UE and the network. The Node B performs the transmission and reception of data wirelessly across the radio interface and also applies the codes that are necessary to describe channels in a CDMA system. The RNC is responsible for control of the Node Bs that are connected to it. The RNC performs Radio Resource Management RRM some of the mobility management functions and is the point where encryption is done before user data is sent to and from a mobile terminal. The RNC connects to the Circuit Switched Core Network through a Media Gateway MGW and to an SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node in the Packet Switched Core Network. In Node B is controlled by RNC across the Iub interface. An RNC may control more than one node B.

The radio link between the Femto and the mobile terminal uses the same cellular telecommunication transport protocols as Node B but with a smaller range for example 25 m. The Femto appears to the mobile terminal as a conventional base station so no modification to the mobile terminal is required for it to operate with the Femto . The Femto performs a role corresponding to that of Node B in the macro 3G RAN.

The Femto may be configured to serve a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN located in a home or office in addition to GSM UMTS LTE networks. The WLAN could belong to the subscriber of the mobile terminal or be an independently operated WLAN. The owner of Femto can prescribe whether it is open or closed whereby an open AP is able to carry communications from any mobile device in the GSM UMTS LTE network and a closed AP is only able to carry communications from specific pre assigned mobile devices.

Conventionally in a 3G network macro or Femto the RANs are controlled by a mobile switching centre MSC and an SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node of the core network. The MSC supports communications in the circuit switched domain whilst the SGSN supports communications in the packet switched domain such as GPRS data transmissions. The SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the mobile terminals within its geographical service area. It performs packet routing and transfer mobility management attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. A location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI address es used in the packet data network of all mobile terminals registered with this SGSN. In since the embodiment is concerned with data transmission only the SGSN is illustrated as being in communication with RNC and AGW across the Iu interface. The RNC typically has a dedicated not shared connection to its SGSN such as a cable connection.

Communications between the AGW and the SGSN are preferably IP based communications and may be for example transmitted over a broadband IP network. Further the connection between the Femto and the AGW may use the PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network . Typically a DSL cable connects the AGW to the PSTN and data is transmitted there between by IP transport DSL transport. The Femto or AGW converts the cellular telecommunications transport protocols used between the mobile terminal and the Femto to the appropriate IP based signalling.

The femto may be connected to the AGW by means other than a DSL cable and the PSTN network. For example the femto may be connected to the AGW by a dedicated cable connection that is independent of the PSTN or by a satellite connection.

The SGSN is in communication with the GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node across the Gn interface. The GGSN is responsible for the interworking between the GPRS network and external packet switched networks e.g. the Internet. The GGSN enables the mobility of mobile terminals in the networks. It maintains routing necessary to tunnel the Protocol Data Units PDUs to the SGSN that service a particular mobile terminal. The GGSN converts the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN into the appropriate packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or X.25 and sends them out on the corresponding packet data network. In the other direction PDP addresses of incoming data packets are converted to the mobile network address of the destination user. The readdressed packets are sent to the responsible SGSN . For this purpose the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the user and their profile in its location register. The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected mobile terminal. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions. Other functions include IP Pool management and address mapping QoS and PDP context enforcement.

In turn the GGSN may route data via any applicable Value Added Service VAS equipment before data is forwarded towards its intended destination via the Internet . As an example of the functionality of the VAS equipment the traffic may be inspected for adult content before reaching the end user if this user is under 18 years of age.

For billing purposes in particular a PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function apparatus is also provided in communication with both the SGSN and the GGSN .

The SGSN GGSN VAS and PCRF apparatus comprise the core network of the mobile telecommunications network .

Additionally a WLAN access point AP may be provided to enable the mobile terminal with WLAN communication capability to access the internet independently of the mobile telecommunications network including the core thereof . The WLAN communications may be in accordance with a relevant Standard such as IEEE 802.11.

Traffic in a mobile telecommunications network can be considered to be separated into control plane signalling and user plane signalling . The control plane performs the required signalling and includes the relevant application protocol and signalling bearer for transporting the application protocol messages. Among other things the application protocol is used for setting up the radio access bearer and the radio network layer. The user plane transmits data traffic and includes data streams and data bearers for the data streams. The data streams are characterised by one or more frame protocols specific for a particular interface. Generally speaking the user plane carries data for use by a receiving terminal such as data that allow a voice or picture to be reproduced and the control plane controls how data are transmitted.

It is possible to reduce packet data handling costs of a mobile telecommunications network by means of an alternative network cost model architecture which breaks out of the traditional network architecture and nodes and utilises lower cost transport networks to optimise the data flow.

In this regard shows a high level description of the architecture that may be adopted to reduce packet data handling costs on the LTE SAE macro network.

The LTE SAE network includes eNode Bs which make up the RAN. The eNode Bs effectively combine the functionality of the node B and the RNC of the 3G network. These eNodeBs are the network components which communicate with the mobile communication devices e.g. . The eNodeBs are arranged in groups and each group controlled by a Mobility Management Entity MME and a User Plane Entity UPE not shown.

The MME performs many of the mobility functions traditionally provided by the 3G SGSN. The MME terminates the control plane with the mobile device . It is responsible for terminating NAS Non Access Stratum Signalling such as MM Mobility Management and SM Session Management information as well as coordinating Idle Mode procedures. Other responsibilities of the MME include gateway selection inter MME Mobility and authentication of the mobile device.

The UPE manages protocols on the user plane such as storing mobile terminal contexts terminating the Idle Mode on the user plane and PDP context encryption.

Offload return decision functionality is integrated into the network. Ideally this decision functionality is incorporated in the radio architecture. In this regard the offload return decision blocks may be incorporated into the eNodeBs or exist as separate physical entities . It is these offload return decision blocks that determine the path of communications originating from the mobile terminals.

Each of the eNodeBs is connected to the mobile network core through a Point of Concentration PoC . All traffic from the eNodeBs which is to be routed through the core mobile network is routed to the PoC . This includes both user plane and control plane data. On the control plane level the PoC routes data to and from the Mobility Management Entity MME across the S1 interface. Control data is also sent to and from other core network components including the Lawful Interceptor Database LI DB DNS Server Policy Server including Charging rules and IT Network and Home Location Register Home Subscriber Server HLR HSS which contains subscriber and device profile and state information .

User plane data on the other hand is transmitted by the PoC to the Serving GateWay SGW and then to the Packet data network GateWay PGW . The SGW and PGW are typically separate entities with the SGW being a data plane element whose primary function is to manage user plane mobility and data being transferred between the eNodeBs and the PDN Gateway PGW . From the PGW data is routed across a VAS node to the Internet . In LTE SAE this is the standard data path from the mobile terminals to the Internet.

An alternative path on which to offload certain data to the internet is provided whereby each eNodeB may be connected to a DSL line which is directly connected to the internet . These xDSL connections may be made directly to the eNodeB or made to the eNodeB via other components such as the PoC . In the xDSL Network provides access directly to the public internet from eNodeB and is an alternative route for traffic from the PoC. The alternative path for data may be a third party network or may be a network owned or controlled by the owner of the mobile telecommunications network. By using such an alternative path radio capacity backhaul transport resource core transport resource cellular core network resources can be saved as well as improving performance and enhancing revenue for the mobile network operator.

As each eNode B and or PoC is associated with an Offload Return block for each data packet request originating from a mobile terminal a decision is made as to whether the traffic may bypass the core mobile network entirely or may be passed into the core mobile network. The location at which the traffic is routed towards the internet is preferably immediately after the Offload Return decision e.g. at the PoC however it may alternatively be routed out from the core network towards the internet at a different component.

Typically the signalling control plane for the connection will continue through the normal route but the user data traffic will be held at the eNodeB this is possible by virtue of the separate user and control planes as shown in .

The decision as to whether or not to use the Core mobile Network to route the data traffic can be based on various aspects.

Additionally a WLAN access point AP may be provided to enable the mobile terminal with WLAN communication capability to access the internet independently of the mobile telecommunications network by a direct radio connection with the AP rather than via an eNodeB . The AP and WLAN communications may be in accordance with a relevant Standard such as IEEE 802.11.

The arrangement of is in relation to a LTE SAE network. The invention is equally applicable to 3G networks. In this regard show examples of possible network architectures for implementing the offload decision module in 3G macro networks and 3G Femto networks respectively.

The offload decision modules would operate in the same manner as described in relation to the LTE SAE network however as shown in the offload return decision block may be located at many different locations in the network.

In this regard from in particular it can be seen that the exact placement of the decision module gateway can be varied and that for a macro 3G network it can be placed at or between the Node Bs and the RNCs and also between the RNCs and the SGSNs or any combination thereof . It would also be possible to place the module gateway at the GGSN although not the SGSN in this embodiment as this does not control user data only control data .

In the Legacy 3G Macro network a percentage of the macro network traffic may be offloaded from the core and transport IuPS Gn etc by diverting specific traffic for certain user s directly to the Internet .

Where the decision block A A is located in the Node Bs or on the Iub interface it becomes possible to redirect the data from all the remaining mobile network elements e.g. the RNC SGSN GGSN and VAS for macro 3G and sending the data directly to the Internet . In a similar manner where the decision block A is located at the RNC or on the Iu interface it becomes possible to redirect the data from the SGSN GGSN and the VAS . The alternative data route is preferably a DSL using ADSL.

It is also preferable to aggregate the alternative data routes for each cell where applicable. In this regard each cell will have at least one RNC and a plurality of Node Bs so where the decision blocks A A A are situated at or in the vicinity of the Node Bs for instance there will be a plurality of links which should ideally be aggregated before being passed to the Internet . At the point of this aggregation there is preferably a further decision block which enables data to be returned to the legacy route. For instance a new policy rule may have been implemented which requires or enables previously offloaded data to be returned to the core network route. This new policy rule may be communicated to the return decision module by the core network policy module . In this returning of data is only shown to the VAS but the data may be returned to one or more of the other core network elements SGSN GGSN VAS and policy module .

Additionally a WLAN access point AP may be provided to enable the mobile terminal with WLAN communication capability to access the internet independently of the mobile telecommunications network by a direct radio connection with the AP rather than via a NodeB . The AP and WLAN communications may be in accordance with a relevant Standard such as IEEE 802.11.

According to an embodiment of the invention the mobile device which may be registered with a mobile cellular telecommunications network as shown in or may have installed thereon a plurality of applications. shows in more detail the elements of the mobile terminal and additional elements for making applications available and for gathering and analysing performance data relating to the applications in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

These elements include a source of applications such as an app store which may be managed by the mobile telecommunications network operator or a third party. Examples of conventional source of applications are Android Market and The Apple App Store. Application developers may also connect to the source of applications to obtain analytics data to be described relating to applications.

The source of applications may comprise Application Programming Interface API framework which provides an interface between a web services element and an application database . The API framework presents a novel standardised interface. The novel standardised API provides a consistent interface defining communication protocols ports etc. Full details of the API may be published to allow easy communication with the API framework . The applications database may store the applications or may include details of the storage location from where an application can be retrieved. Processing power of the source of applications is provided by processor on which an appropriate operating system runs.

The mobile device may in the conventional manner include hardware such as microprocessors and memory which provides the necessary resources to allow a core operating system kernel to function and which supports system libraries . A plurality of applications App 1 App 2 . . . App n may be installed on the mobile device .

The mobile terminal is connected to mobile telecommunications network e.g. comprising elements designated with reference numerals and in and or comprising elements designated and in . In order to allow an application to be downloaded to the mobile terminal the application store is coupled to the mobile device via the mobile telecommunications network and IP network and an open API server . The open API server communicates with the source of applications via the Internet these Internet communications being supported by the web services element of the source of applications and a corresponding web services element of the open API server . The open API server further comprises a common access part a presentation exposure part and an API exposure part . The API exposure part presents a novel standardised interface. The novel standardised API provides a consistent interface defining communication protocols ports etc. Full details of the API may be published to allow easy communication with the API exposure part . The functionality of these parts of the open API server is supported by a processor on which an operating system runs.

The open API server provides a standardised unified interface which exposes mobile telecommunication network and application APIs to third parties such as application developers via the source of applications 

The arrangement of the open API server and the source of applications allows the user of the mobile terminal to view and select applications from the source of applications for example using the graphical user interface GUI of the mobile terminal for download of an application from the source of applications to the mobile terminal and to install the application as one of the applications of the mobile terminal . Applications may also be pre installed on the mobile terminal prior to sale of the terminal or installed in any other way .

In accordance with an important feature of the present embodiment an application Analytics Server is provided. The application Analytics Server communicates with the open API server and the mobile telecommunications network via the IP network . The application Analytics Server includes an API exposure part . The API exposure part presents a novel standardised interface. The novel standardised API provides a consistent interface defining communication protocols ports etc. Full details of the API may be published to allow easy communication with the API exposure part . The API exposure part allows communication with the open API Server via the corresponding API exposure part of the open API server . An application Analytics Engine is provided on the application Analytic Server as is a database . The elements and are supported by the processor which runs in appropriate operating system .

In accordance with another important aspect of this embodiment the mobile device is provided with an analytics client . The analytics client includes monitoring means A which monitors the performance of each of the applications and generates performance data for each of the applications . The performance data for each application are separately analysable and for this purpose may include an indicator of the application to which it relates and may include an indication of the device to which it relates . The analytics client further includes analysing means B which analyses the performance data for each of the respective applications and generates analytics data which identifies characteristics of the applications which can for example be used to find problematic ones of the applications in dependence upon the analysis. The analytics data may include an indicator of the application to which it relates and may include an indicator of the device to which it relates .

The analytics client may via the GUI of the mobile terminal not shown alert the user of the mobile terminal to any of the applications that is determined to be problematic as a result of the analysis performed. For example an application may be consuming excessive battery power of the mobile device or may be causing excessive signalling to from the mobile telecommunications network . By alerting the user to such a problematic application the analytics client allows the user to stop and or uninstall the problematic application. The analytics client may also provide the user with recommendations for solving problems with applications e.g. an instruction to uninstall or update an application.

If the user accepts the activity as legitimate the relevant application gets a positive score and is marked trusted . If the user rejects the activity the application gets a negative score and is marked black listed . Monitoring mean communicate trusted and black listed applications list with analysis mean in order to build a global view.

The analytics client may provide via the GUI an indication of the power consumption or other characteristics of each of the applications . More detailed information may be provided such as the battery life remaining if each of the applications is enabled or disabled.

As an alternative to or in addition to alerting the user via the GUI of the mobile terminal of a problematic application the analytics client may automatically stop an application that is deemed to be problematic or take some other suitable action for example when power consumption or data throughput exceeds a threshold. The analytics client may provide recommendations to the user to solve or mitigate problems with a particular application based on its analytics of the performance data.

The performance data generated by the monitoring means A of the analytics client may for each of the applications relate to the following key performance indicators KPIs 

The analytics client may also generate application related statistics for a given time period such as 

In accordance with an important feature of the embodiment the analytics client may report the performance data and or the result of the analysis performed thereby the analytics data to the application analytics server via the mobile telecommunications network and the IP network . Preferably this data traffic is transmitted at no cost to the user of the mobile device and is not counted as part of their data allowance . Also this data traffic may be transmitted at times when the demand for communication resources on the network is otherwise generally low such as in the early hours of the morning or other network quiet periods.

The performance data and analytics data are received by the analytics engine of the application analytics server . The analytics engine also receives performance data and analytics data from analytics clients other mobile telecommunications devices relating to the applications in those devices . In this way the analytics engine receives performance data and analytics data from a plurality of mobile devices relating to a plurality of applications running on those devices.

With regard to the data use KPI the analytics client and or analytics engine may distinguish between background data and foreground data. Foreground data is that which is requested and consumed by the user e.g. movie clips or news stories selected by the user. Background data is data not directly requested or consumed by the user but rather is data caused to be transmitted by an application to allow that application to operate. An application which uses a large amount of background data inefficiently is generally undesirable to the device user and the network.

Performance and analytics data for an application from a plurality of devices such as various device types of different manufactures and or running different operating systems may be consolidated which may be useful for the application developer .

The mobile terminals connected to the cellular telecommunications network may be numerous different types and operating on numerous different platforms and operating systems. The analytics engine is able to collect performance data and analytics data relating to applications on this diverse group of devices. The analytics engine may generate further analytics data from the performance data. The analytics data whether further data generated by the analytics engine or data received from the analytics client relating to each application on each mobile device is stored in the database . The performance data analytics data and analytics engine are such that the analytics engine can recognise performance data and analytics data relating to a particular application on a particular device and also can group performance and analytics data relating to different instances versions of an application that may be installed on a plurality of different mobile terminals of a plurality of users.

The performance and analytics data in service information from the analytics engine and database is made available to the open API server via the IP network by means of the API exposure parts and the presentation exposure part and the common access part .

The open API server provides a unified interface to allow third parties such as the source of applications to access the performance and analytics data of the analytics engine . In this way the data relating to the performance and usage of the applications may be made available to the developers of the applications through the source of applications . This facilitates improvement of the applications by the developers.

This data may also be provided to a prospective user of an application before installation of the application e.g. through the application store so that the prospective user can make an informed decision whether to install the application.

The open API server may also send the performance and or analytics data of the analytics engine to the mobile device . This data may relate to applications installed on the mobile device only or may relate to the applications in general including instances of the applications installed on other devices . In this way the data relating to the performance and usage of the applications from the analytics engine may be made available to the mobile terminal and the user thereof via the GUI of the mobile terminal.

Application developers may proactively request performance and or analytics data by sending appropriate commands via the source of applications to the open API server which are then passed via the IP network to the application analytics server . Such commands may include for example 

The analytics engine is operable to receive and interpret these commands and then retrieves appropriate data from the database to provide the data requested by these commands. The requested data is then returned to the application developer via the IP network the open API server the Internet and the source of applications .

The open API server also provides a unified interface to allow the user of the mobile device to access the performance and analytics data relating to the performance and usage of the applications from the source of applications . As mentioned above the arrangement of the open API server and the source of applications allows the user of the mobile terminal to view and select applications from the source of applications for example using the graphical user interface GUI of the mobile terminal for download of an application from the source of applications to the mobile terminal and to install the application as one of the applications of the mobile terminal .

Advantageously as part of the selection procedure the source of applications provides to the user via their mobile terminal s GUI information relating to the performance of applications of interest which is derived from the analytics engine . The mobile terminal user can then make an informed decision about whether to install a particular application. The user might be made aware that a particular application consumes a significant amount of data and or rapidly depletes the terminal s battery.

Advantageously the information relating to the performance of applications of interest may relate particularly to the type of mobile terminal of the user e.g. the particular make model or the operating system used.

The analytics client of the mobile terminal as well as providing data relating to problematic ones of the applications also advantageously generates data indicating which of the applications are in use at a particular time which data is passed to the analytics engine . The analytics engine may use this data in combination with other data available from the telecommunications network and or the mobile device . For example the application analytics data may be used in combination with location data of the mobile terminal. This location data may be provided by the mobile terminal itself provided for example by a GPS receiver of the mobile terminal. Alternatively this location data may be provided by the mobile telecommunications network and may be obtained for example by the technique of cell triangulation.

Information relating to the location of the mobile terminal is monitored by the monitoring means and notified to the analysis means to recommend which applications should be used if already installed or could be installed or used at a particular geographical location such as a Formula 1 application at Silverstone or a speedy check in application at an airport. The user may be provided with targeted context aware in application advertisements particular to the situation of the user at a given location and or time. For example if a user uses a mapping application at breakfast time an advertisement for a breakfast special offer of a nearby restaurant may be sent by the analytics engine for display within the mapping application.

The network uses quality of service QoS to manage traffic during high load situations and to support marketing propositions.

The analytics client and or analytics engine may analyse application usage of a particular mobile device to determine the most popular application or applications of a particular user. The mobile device and or network may then be configured to offer the best QoS to communications to from the mobile terminal which relate to that particular application. This may be a service offered to particular users possibly in exchange for a fee. The monitoring and analytics aspects may keep an updated set of information about the most popular application for that particular user as it may change over time .

For example if a user s most popular application is Facebook then data relating to Facebook may be given priority over other data transmissions of that mobile terminal. That is other data transmissions may be delayed to reduce latency in Facebook data transmissions. In this way quality of service for Facebook transmissions can be improved for a given bandwidth. In an alternative arrangement the network is instructed to make available additional bandwidth for the most popular application Facebook in this example . Furthermore if the user is not connected through the mobile network an application level QoS session can be initiated by passing the core mobile network over a wireless LAN link for example for popular applications. In one example it may be detected that a particular user A has a popular application P which should always get higher QoS as compared to other applications used by the same user A. Whenever application P is initiated in the user A device since the monitoring means with the help of analytics client and engine know that this is a popular application for the user the monitoring means instructs a high QoS session to be initiated via the mobile core network. Popular application for each user may be different and popular applications may change for each user over time adapting the user behaviour thanks to analysing and monitoring means. Moreover even if the user is not connected through the mobile network an application level QoS session can be enabled over the top of any other connectivity means for popular application P.

The analytics engine may identify an application on a particular mobile terminal that is making excessive or inefficient use of the capacity of the mobile telecommunications network or has some other predetermined characteristic and may notify the PCRF Policy Module a to use the alternative offload path for the mobile terminal avoiding the core of the mobile telecommunications network where the cost of providing communications is less. Performance and or analytics data from the analytics client may continue to be passed to the analytics server by sending this via the core network and not the offload path. Alternatively the performance and or analytics data of the analytics client may be stored until the offloading ends and then transmitted to the analytics server when user plane data is again transmitted via the core network.

The analytics engine may cause data to be offloaded data to the alternative offload path for any other reason e.g. by instructing the PCRF to perform the offload . A list of applications which needs to be offloaded may change dynamically based on the performance of the applications assessed by monitoring and analysis means.

The analytics engine and or the analytics client may also cause the mobile terminal to attach to the API1 in dependence upon certain criteria thereby bypassing the telecommunications network entirely.

When the mobile terminal is connected to the WLAN network via the API1 whether due to user selection or actions of the analytics engine or analytics client the application and or performance data of the analytics client may be stored until the mobile terminal again connects to the network and may then be transmitted to the analytics server when user plane data is again transmitted via the core network.

The analytics engine may also expose customer apps analytics information to customer care systems through the open API server in order to enhance the care system visibility. For example if a customer downloaded a malicious application which is draining the mobile battery when the customer calls the Vodafone call centre the customer care executive having access to analytics data can suggest deleting a particular application which the analytics data suggests to be the main cause of battery drainage. In field mobile device testing and performance improvements may be performed such as over the air OTA upgrades to address problems identified by the performance and or analytics data in cooperation with the manufacturers of the mobile telecommunications devices.

The analytics client may make available to the analytics engine the status of the battery of the mobile terminal and the power consumption that a particular time the rate of data transmission and other in service information. The analytics engine is able to provide the application developer with feedback about usage of their applications such as what time the application is used the location of usage and the radio access network on which application is used WLAN 2G 3G 4G etc. 

By monitoring the performance of applications and thereby facilitating the improvement of or removal of problematic applications a user s perception of the ability of the mobile telecommunications network to provide a high quality smart phone user experience will be improved.

The data relating to the performance of the applications enables only selected quality applications to be offered to users. In this way a user will know that they can trust the applications offered are of appropriate quality. Alternatively applications may be offered without restriction but an indication of the quality may be provided in order to allow users to make an informed choice. In this way if the user experiences a deterioration in performance of their smartphone they are more likely to attribute it to their selection of a poor quality application rather than a network or smartphone quality issue.

The mobile telecommunications network is provided with more visibility of customers and can offer improved QoS selective offload from the cellular network to an alternative offload path or a WLAN network or customer promotions.

The mobile telecommunications network may make available the application based analytics data to third parties such as application developers and others as a product for example in exchange for a payment .

High quality application developers may be attracted to make available applications that provide good performance for the mobile telecommunications network and or a particular device and to make these available on the source of applications as the developers know that the quality of the applications will be recognised and the likelihood of these applications being purchased by users of the network will be increased.

Enterprise customers often need strong technical capability to understand the data usage of their employees. Access to the analytics engine could be extended to the enterprise customers telecom management systems through open API platform to allow greater visibility. For example the enterprise customers use this to see if their employees are using Facebook or YouTube on their mobile and how much data these applications are consuming which helps them to improve the mobile usage company policies for increased productivity and or reduce spend.

Mobile telecommunications network users will be empowered and awareness and visibility of application quality.

In the embodiment shown in analysing means is provided at the mobile device by the analytics client and at the analytic server by the analytics engine . It should be understood that analysis means may be provided at only one of the mobile device and the analysis server .

