---

title: Systems and methods for subscription management in a multi-channel context aware communication environment
abstract: A method may include receiving, via a first network, a message identifying an event, where the event is associated with an entity, and the event is destined for at least one user. The method may include determining, by a processor of a computing device, a type of the event, and accessing, by the processor, a user profile associated with a first user of the at least one user, where the user profile associates the first user with the entity. The method may include determining, by the processor, a communication channel for delivering information associated with the event to the first user, where the user profile includes an association between the communication channel and the type of the event. The method may include forwarding, via a second network, to the first user, the information associated with the event, where the information associated with the event is forwarded via the communication channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566414&OS=08566414&RS=08566414
owner: Freedomone Mobile, Inc.
number: 08566414
owner_city: Montreal
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130311
---
This application is related to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 713 090 entitled Systems and Methods for Subscription Management in a Multi Channel Context Aware Communication Environment and filed Oct. 12 2012 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Communication between customers and organizations may occur in a piecemeal fashion. Customers may send e mails to the organization visit the organization s website and or call the organization s customer service line. Organizations may send information to customer s e mail addresses and or call customers. Information about customers and the organizations may be lost between such communications. Customers may become frustrated with duplicate requests for information e.g. between branches of an entity between a telephone help desk and a web site etc. .

There is a need for a solution that supports the sharing of information between a customer and an organization without losing the context of historical and recent activity that involved different communication means and different departments of the organization.

In general overview the systems and methods of the present disclosure enable organizations to leverage different communication channels with a customer e.g. individual business partner client employee enterprise client system machine controlled by any of the above to distribute information effectively and efficiently. Customers also referred to herein as users may subscribe to a multi channel communication platform service. When subscribing customers may create user profiles. The user profiles may include the channels of communication through which the users consent to contact. For example users may provide their mobile telephone numbers through which they consent to receive short message service SMS communications landline telephone number through which they consent to receive interactive voice response IVR communications e mail addresses through which they consent to receive e mail identifiers for mobile computing device on which they consent to receive customized information on mobile applications social network accounts through which a user consents to receive information posts or any other information related to communication.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a method including receiving via a first network a message identifying an event where the event is associated with an entity and the event is destined for at least one user. The method may include determining by a processor of a computing device a type of the event and accessing by the processor a user profile associated with a first user of the at least one user where the user profile associates the first user with the entity. The method may include determining by the processor a communication channel for delivering information associated with the event to the first user where the user profile includes an association between the communication channel and the type of the event. The method may include forwarding via a second network to the first user the information associated with the event where the information associated with the event is forwarded via the communication channel.

In some embodiments the communication channel is one of a telephone number an email address a social networking account a software application and a machine to machine alias. Forwarding the information associated with the event may include forwarding the event as one of an SMS message an email message and a social networking message. The type may include a priority level. The user profile may include an association between the communication channel and a notification service provided by the entity.

In some embodiments the method includes prior to determining the communication channel determining by the processor a second communication channel where the second communication channel is determined based in part upon the type of the event and based further in part upon the user profile where the user profile identifies the second communication channel as a primary communication channel. The method may include forwarding via a third network the information associated with the event where the information associated with the event is forwarded via the second communication channel and receiving via the third network an indication of failure of delivery of the information associated with the event via the second communication channel. The second network may be the third network.

In some embodiments the first network is the second network. The method may include prior to forwarding the information associated with the event formatting the information associated with the event based at least in part upon the communication channel. A message content associated with the event may include a rich media format the second communication channel includes an SMS message and formatting the information associated with the event may include reducing the message content to plain text.

In some embodiments the method includes logging by the processor data regarding the event where the data is associated with the user profile. The data may include a timestamp and at least a portion of the information associated with the event.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving via the first network a second event where the second event is associated with a second entity and the second event is destined for the first user. The method may include determining by the processor a type associated with the second event where the type associated with the second event is different than the type associated with the event. The method may include accessing by the processor the user profile associated with the first user determining by the processor based at least in part upon the type of the second event the first user has not designated a communication channel corresponding to the second event and discarding by the processor the second event.

In some embodiments the entity is at least one of a a financial institution b a retail organization c a government organization d a medical organization and e an employer of the first user. The event may include one of a an account statement b information regarding a financial transaction c medical record information and d information regarding government records.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a system including a processor and a memory the memory storing instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to receive via a network identification of a number of communication channels associated with a user where the number of communication channels include at least one of an email address a telephone number a social media account a software application and a machine to machine alias. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to create a user profile including the number of communication channels receive an indication of a number of associations where each association of the number of associations correlates a respective communication channel with a respective event type where each event type of a number of event types includes at least one of an entity a service type and a priority and store information regarding the number of associations in the user profile. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to receive an event destined for the user determine a type of the event where the number of event types includes the type and based upon the user profile match the type of the event to a first communication channel of the number of communication channels. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to forward information associated with the event via the first communication channel.

In some embodiments the first communication channel includes a software application the method further including receiving from a separate computing device executing the software application peripheral data where the peripheral data is obtained from a peripheral feature of the separate computing device identifying based at least in part upon the peripheral data one or more contextual events and providing for presentation to the user via at least one communication channel of the number of communication channels information associated with the one or more contextual events. The peripheral feature may include one of a geolocation feature an electronic wallet feature a near field communication feature an optical imaging feature a graphic image capture feature an audio capture feature and a biometric feature. The peripheral data may be obtained prior to forwarding the information associated with the event via the first communication channel. Providing the information associated with the one or more contextual events may include forwarding the information associated with the one or more contextual events via the first communication channel.

In some embodiments the instructions when executed cause the processor to access user data from a storage device where identifying the one or more contextual events includes identifying a first contextual event of the one or more contextual events based further in part on the user data. The user data may include historic peripheral data.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon where the instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive via a network identification of a number of communication channels associated with a user where the number of communication channels include at least one of an email address a telephone number a social media account a software application and a machine to machine alias. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to create a user profile including the number of communication channels and receive an indication of a number of associations where each association of the number of associations correlates a respective communication channel with a respective event type where each event type of a number of event types includes at least one of an entity a service type and a priority. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to store information regarding the number of associations in the user profile receive an event destined for the user and determine a type of the event where the number of event types includes the type. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to based upon the user profile match the type of the event to a first communication channel of the number of communication channels and forward information associated with the event via the first communication channel.

In some embodiments each communication channel of the number of communication channels includes a privacy level and forwarding the information associated with the event via the first communication channel includes securing the information associated with the event relative to the privacy level of the first communication channel. Each service type may include a privacy level and forwarding the information associated with the event via the first communication channel may include securing the information associated with the event relative to the privacy level of a respective service type of the event.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a method including receiving via a network user profile information including a number of information items where a first information item of the number of information items includes at least one of a user name a birth date a home address an account number an image file an audio file a video file and a biometric value. The method may include creating by a processor of a computing device a user profile including the number of information items where creating the user profile includes associating with each information item of the number of information items at least one of a creation date an expiration date a privacy level and a security level. The method may include identifying by the processor availability of a new identification object where the new identification object is provided on behalf of an entity determining by the processor that the user profile is associated with the entity and alerting via a communication channel associated with the user profile the user to the availability of the new identification object. The method may include responsive to alerting the user of the availability of the new identification object receiving new user profile information related to the new identification object and populating by the processor the new identification object with the new user profile information where a respective privacy level of the new information object allows for sharing of the new user profile information with one or more additional entities different than the entity. The method may include providing based at least in part upon the respective privacy level of the new information object the new user profile information to at least one of the one or more additional entities.

In some embodiments the method includes prior to providing the new user profile information to at least one of the one or more additional entities receiving from the at least one of the one or more additional entities a request for access to the new identification object. The method may include after populating the new identification object receiving an update to the new identification object where the update includes a modification to one or more of the respective privacy level and the respective security level and associating by the processor update information with the new identification object where the update information includes one or more of an update date an update timestamp and an updator. The updator may include the entity.

In some embodiments associating update information with the new identification object includes associating an initial value with the new identification object. Creating the user profile may include distributing one or more information items of the number of information items between two or more storage regions. Each storage region of the two or more storage regions may include a different security level for protecting stored information. Each storage region of the two or more storage regions may include a different access technique for accessing stored information.

In some embodiments providing the new user profile information to the at least one of the one or more additional entities includes allocating compensation for sharing the new user profile information. The compensation may include one or more of a points value a coupon and a gift certificate. Allocating compensation may include adding funds to a financial account associated with the user profile.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon where the instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive via a network identification of a number of communication channels associated with a user where the number of communication channels include at least one of an email address a telephone number a social media account a software application and a machine to machine alias. The instructions may cause the processor to create a user profile including the number of communication channels receive an indication of a number of associations where each association of the number of associations correlates a respective communication channel with a respective priority and store information regarding the number of associations in the user profile. The instructions may cause the processor to receive from a separate computing system an event destined for the user where the event is associated with an entity and a service level. The instructions may cause the processor to based upon the user profile identify a first communication channel of the number of communication channels for issuing information associated with the event to the user where identifying the first communication channel includes matching a service level of the event with a priority of the first communication channel. The instructions may cause the processor to forward information associated with the event to the user via the first communication channel where the entity is kept unaware of the first communication channel.

In some embodiments the instructions when executed further cause the processor to responsive to forwarding the information associated with the event receive via a second communication channel of the number of communication channels a response to the event and responsive to receiving the response provide information associated with the response to the entity where the entity is kept unaware of the second communication channel. The instructions when executed may further cause the processor to receive from the separate computing system a second event where the second event is destined for the user and the second event is associated with a second service level different than the service level. The instructions may cause the processor to access the user profile determine based at least in part upon the second service level the user has not designated a corresponding communication channel for delivering the second event and discard the second event.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a system including a processor and a memory the memory storing instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to receive via a network identification of a number of financial accounts associated with a user where the number of financial accounts include at least one of a bank account a credit card account a savings account a checking account and an electronic wallet account. The instructions may cause the processor to populate a user profile associated with the user with the number of financial accounts. The instructions may cause the processor to receive an indication of a number of associations where each association of the number of associations correlates a respective financial account with at least one of a respective entity a respective priority level and a respective usage type and store information regarding the number of associations in the user profile. The instructions may cause the processor to receive a payment request associated with the user profile determine a first financial account of the number of financial accounts corresponding to the payment request where the payment request identifies at least one of an entity a priority level and a usage type and provide for use by one of a requestor associated with the request and a payor identified by the request account information associated with the first financial account.

In some embodiments the account information includes one or more of an account number an account passcode an expiration date a verification code and a communication channel for authorization. The usage type may include at least one of personal use and business use. The priority level may identify one of a primary financial account of the number of financial accounts and a secondary financial account of the number of financial accounts.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon wherein the instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive via a network identification of a plurality of communication channels and a plurality of information items associated with a user wherein a first information item of the plurality of information items comprises at least one of a user name a birth date a home address an account number an image file an audio file a video file and a biometric value. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to create a user profile comprising the plurality of communication channels and the plurality of information items wherein creating the user profile comprises associating with each information item of the plurality of information items at least one of a creation date an expiration date a privacy level and a security level. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to receive an indication of a plurality of associations wherein each association of the plurality of associations correlates a respective communication channel with at least one of an entity a service type a security level and a priority level and store information regarding the plurality of associations in the user profile. The instructions when executed may cause the processor to receive an event destined for the user match the event to a first communication channel of the plurality of communication channels wherein the event is matched to the first communication channel based at least in part on one or more of a respective entity a respective service type a respective security level and a respective priority level of the event and forward information associated with the event via the first communication channel.

The features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

Conversely a particular communication source such as a financial server a Web portal or a message server may provide a user the opportunity to configure one or more communication channels for distribution of information from the particular communication source. For example a user may establish an account with the multi channel communication environment via an interface provided by a bank associated with the financial server . The interface for example may be included in a web page or mobile application provided by the bank to the user. Through the interface the user may opt to receive for example fraud warnings via the SMS channel monthly statements via the email channel and offers for new products via the mobile application channel

In some implementations the channel agent provides the user with configuration tools to configure a particular channel e.g. email address telephone number social networking account etc. with a particular type of communication. The type of communication for example may include a priority of information or a source of information. For example communications regarding a credit card may be directed to the SMS channel while communications regarding new offers from the user s bank may be directed to a personal email account e.g. email channel . Specific user settings are stored for example within a user profile data store .

In some implementations the configuration tools include tools for populating and managing information items related to a user profile such as in some examples user demographic information e.g. name address birth date marital status number of children pets etc. work experience information e.g. company name work address education level degree graduation year post secondary school name s field of employment etc. and account information e.g. awards member identifier credit card number bank account number library card number student identification employee identification eWallet account identification medical insurance identification dental insurance identification etc. . The information items can include one or more of text information image files video files and or audio files.

In some implementations information items include security information such as in some implementations biometric identification information e.g. fingerprint information voiceprint information retina scan information etc. and password information.

Information items in either the user profile or security information can be encrypted with an encryption key based for example on authentication best practice Something you know Something you own Something you are .

Each information item in some implementations is associated with a security level. For example the user may adjust a security level associated with individual information items to restrict access to a particular communication source or group of communication sources.

In some implementations one or more of the information items is associated with one or more dates such as in some examples a creation date an update date and an expiration date. For example account information e.g. a credit card number may be associated with an expiration date. In another example biometric information may be associated with an update date such that the user may identify if when a particular biometric information item was updated.

In some implementations one or more of the information items is associated with an original status. For example if a user modifies the security level of the information item the user may review and optionally revert to an original security level associated with the information items e.g. a default designated by the originating communication source or by the multi channel communication environment .

In some implementations the user is provided the opportunity to associate two or more channels with a particular message type or message priority. For example upon fraud detection the user may opt to receive both an automated voice message via the IVR channel and a scrolling message via the smart TV channel . In another example the user may associate a primary channel and a secondary channel with a particular message type or message priority. For example upon failure of distribution of a monthly bank statement message via the primary channel e.g. personal email address the message may be re distributed via the secondary channel e.g. work email address . Other configurations are possible.

In some implementations the channel agent provides the user with configuration tools to instruct correspondence providers such as providers of email accounts and social networking accounts to forward correspondence and or other communications e.g. posts events etc. to the multi channel communication environment . In this manner for example the user may review aggregated information associated with multiple communication channels via a unified user interface provided by the multi channel communication environment .

Service providers when communicating with users via the multi channel communication environment may distribute events e.g. notifications messages application updates etc. via a session agent of the multi channel communication environment . Upon receiving an event from one of the communications sources a security manager of the session agent may validate the originator of the event e.g. based upon information stored within a service providers data store . The security manager may also look up and validate a designed recipient e.g. based upon information stored within the user profile data store .

In some implementations the designated recipient includes a recipient list maintained by the multi channel communication environment . For example a data manager of the session agent may associate an event type or event priority with a number of users affiliated with the source service provider. If for example a portion of the members of a health insurance organization opt for nutrition updates the data manager may access the relevant recipient list.

Upon identifying the one or more recipients of the event in some implementations a session manager identifies at least one channel for distributing the event to each of the one or more recipients. For example a first recipient may designate a particular email address as the distribution channel while a second recipient may designate a social media account as the distribution channel . The session manager in some implementations establishes a communication session for providing the event to a respective recipient via a respective designated channel .

In some implementations the data manager conforms the event to a format compatible with the designated channel . For example a rich media format may be appropriate for distribution via the email channel or social networking account channel while a plain text format may be appropriate for distribution via the SMS channel . In some implementations the communications source provides two or more versions of an event for distribution based upon the designated channel . The data manager for example may select the appropriate event version based upon the designated communication channel .

In some implementations the communications source is unaware of the type of communication channel used to communicate a particular event with a particular user. For example the communications source may identify a user via a unique identifier known by the multi channel communication environment . The multi channel communication environment in turn may provide information to the user on behalf of the communication source via an appropriate communication channel e.g. as configured by the user .

In some implementations the session manager opens a workflow associated with the event such that the recipient may respond to the event in a manner that maintains a context with the original message. For example upon receipt of a fraud detection alert the user may respond via the same channel or a different channel while maintaining the fraud message context. In a particular example a user may receive a fraud detection alert via the email channel registered by the user. The fraud message in this circumstance would be distributed via the internet e.g. to a personal computer or tablet computer . In response the user may be provided with dial in information for use via the voice channel registered by the user to contact the service provider through the multi channel communication environment . The user may connect to the multi channel communication environment via the telecommunications network e.g. using a cellular phone or land line phone . Upon recognition of the voice channel communication the session agent may correlate the voice channel communication with the initial fraud detection alert and channel the voice session to the service provider e.g. via the appropriate communication source . The service provider in this circumstance may receive an indication e.g. message identifier brief information message etc. regarding the context of the voice session.

In some implementations the multi channel communication environment masks the identity of the communication channel from the communication source . For example if the user responds to an event via an email channel the multi channel communication environment may forward information contained within the e mail correspondence while removing the email address. In this manner communication sources may provide information to users without directly compiling communication channel data e.g. email addresses social network account user names etc. regarding the users thus protecting the privacy of the users from unauthorized distribution of communication channel information.

The data manager of the session agent in some implementations logs information regarding the information session e.g. transmission of the event to the recipient follow on response from the recipient to the service provider etc. to an account associated with one or more of the recipient and the service provider. For example a recipient may access an account with the multi channel communication environment to review information regarding events distributed to the recipient via the multi channel communication environment . In some implementations the data manager maintains copies of at least a portion of the events distributed to the user via the multi channel communication environment . For example the data manager may maintain all personal e.g. not group broadcast events distributed to a particular user such as in some examples dental appointment reminders cable television bills and credit card purchase confirmations. Furthermore the data manager may maintain anonymous information regarding communications transferred via the multi channel communication environment for example for statistical purposes.

In some implementations the data manager logs information regarding access of information items. For example if a communication source accesses demographic information the user may be able to review log information regarding one or more information items accessed which communication source accessed the information item s and or a timestamp when the communication source accessed the information item s . The user in some implementations may be alerted upon access to particular information item s e.g. highly secure items such as a social security number credit card number etc. . The user in some implementations is prompted for permission prior to a communication source accessing a particular information item. For example based upon a privacy level and or security level associated with a particular information item permission may be requested of a user e.g. via one or more designated communication channels prior to the multi channel communication environment sharing the information stored within the information item with a particular e.g. new communication source.

In some implementations the multi channel communication environment issues original events to a user via one of the channels . For example upon identification of failure to communicate via a particular channel registered by the user the multi channel communication environment may issue an event via a separate communication channel e.g. a default channel or a secondary channel to the channel exhibiting communication failure alerting the user to the failure. In some implementations the session manager initiates communications with users regarding failed communication channels . In another example the multi channel communication environment may issue an access alert upon access or attempt to access of secure information by a communication source.

Implementations of session management and workflow management in relation to the multi channel communication environment are described in greater detail in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 231 801 entitled Multi Channel Context Aware Communication Technology and filed Sep. 13 2011 and U.S. application Ser. No. 13 487 931 entitled Priority Scheduling for Multi Channel Context Aware Communication Technology and filed Jun. 4 2012 the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Advantages and potential uses of the multi channel communication environment are illustrated within the following example. A user Bob is a customer of GenericBank. He has a variety of different financial accounts with this bank including a checking account a savings account a credit card a car loan a mortgage and a retirement savings plan. He uses each of the accounts for different purposes at different times and he has different concerns about each of the accounts. For example he uses his checking account regularly but accesses his savings account infrequently. He s recently become concerned that someone might have fraudulently gained access to his credit card information causing concern about illicit charges appearing on the credit card account. He has regular debits automatically processed on behalf of his car loan and mortgage. He is a little anxious about the performance of his retirement plan so he likes to keep an eye on the money in the retirement plan account.

Bob wants different information about each of these accounts. For some of the accounts he wants to be notified immediately in the case of certain events for other accounts he is perfectly content to get around to reading a monthly summary at his leisure. He wants to be able to control exactly how and when he is notified about his accounts and he wants to be able to control the communication channels by which his bank contacts him about his accounts.

The multi channel communication environment can provide Bob with the ability to manage all of his accounts and the events he receives about those accounts individually and in precise detail. For example Bob can decide for each account what events he wants and how he wants to receive updates. In a particular example Bob can get an e mail record of his monthly debits from his checking account to pay for his car loan and mortgage via the email channel and he can be notified immediately by SMS in the event of a use of his credit card via the SMS channel

Any time Bob wants to change the communication channels or events for his accounts he can access a portal to the multi channel communication environment licensed to his bank or in other implementations he can access a user account with the multi channel communication environment directly. Through interaction with a few simple configuration tools provided by the multi channel communication environment Bob can make the changes he wants and confirm the configuration modification s through the associated communication channel s in a matter of moments. Once confirmed the changes to the configuration can take place automatically. In this way Bob gains unprecedented direct control over how he is informed about the state of his financial affairs. Example user interfaces for establishing communication channels and account settings are provided below in relation to .

In some implementations the method begins with receiving an event from an entity destined for at least one user . The event in some implementations is received by the multi channel communication environment from one of the communication sources as described in relation to . The event for example may include any digital content such as in some example text video and audio content. In some implementations two or more versions of the event may be received from the entity. For example different versions of the event may be prepared from the entity based in part upon different communication channels available to the user for receipt of events. In a particular example an audio event may be prepared for provision via an IVR channel a rich media event may be prepared for provision via an email channel and a plain text event may be prepared for provision via a SMS channel.

In some implementations a type of event is determined . The session agent described in relation to in some implementations determines the event type. The type in some examples may pertain to the content e.g. category of message topic and or a priority of the event e.g. high importance medium importance low importance etc. . In some implementations the entity designates a type regarding the event. For example the entity may submit the event to the multi channel communication environment via a messaging service that provides for the attachment or flagging of a priority or type. In some implementations the type of the message may be derived by the multi channel communication environment. For example based upon one or more of a subject line recommended communication channel e.g. recommended by the entity recipient list or other contextual information the multi channel communication environment may identify the type of the event.

If the message type matches a type enabled for distributions in some implementations a communications channel is determined based in part upon the type of the event . In some implementations the session manager described in relation to determines the communications channel. The session manager for example may determine the particular communication channel via the channel agent . The user in some implementations selects whether or not to receive various types of information. For example the user may select to receive personal reminders from a local government agency such as fee payment reminders renewal reminders and information requests. However the user may decide not to receive broadcast information from the local government agency e.g. public service events etc. .

In some implementations the user may have two or more communication channels associated with the particular type of event. For example an employee of a consumer goods company may designate two different social networking accounts for distribution of marketing events such as product release announcements. The user in some implementations designates a primary communications channel and a secondary communications channel such that if the primary channel fails or if the user fails to respond within a certain amount of time to an event issued via the primary communication channel the event is issued via the secondary communications channel.

In some implementations the event is forwarded on the identified communication channel . In some implementations the session manager described in relation to forwards the event on one or more identified communication channels . A communications channel for example may be established with one of a number of communications networks depending upon the destination of the event.

The forwarding of an event via the communication channel may fail. In one example a failure may occur by the destination being unreachable e.g. telephone number disconnected email server unreceptive or unresponsive etc. . Failure in some implementations may be identified based upon failure of timely response by the user. In the circumstance of a high priority event that requires response by the user for example failure of response by the user after a predetermined period of time e.g. five minutes fifteen minutes etc. may be construed to be a failure in successful communication of the event.

If the forward does not succeed in some implementations an alert regarding the failed channel is distributed to the user . The alert for example may be distributed via a default channel such as an email address provided by the user upon initiation of the user profile with the multi channel communication environment. If the user has enabled a secondary communication channel in some implementations the event is forwarded on the secondary channel . Within configuration preferences for example a user may specify both a primary communication channel e.g. telephone number for SMS message and a secondary communication channel e.g. email address . The user may designate both primary and secondary communication channels for example due to the priority of the event e.g. to ensure prompt receipt of high priority information .

If the user has not designated a secondary channel in some implementations the event is discarded . If the event is of low priority for example the event may be discarded. In some implementations rather than discarding the event the event may be logged within the user account with the multi channel communication environment such that the user can access the event via the account at a later time. In some implementations for example if the event is of a high priority the method may include re sending the event via the communication channel at a later time e.g. after a predetermined period of time has elapsed such as five fifteen or thirty minutes .

In some implementations upon success of forwarding either via the primary channel or via the secondary channel data regarding the transmission is logged . As stated above the event may be logged within the user account with the multi channel communication environment such that the user can access the event via the account at a later time. For example the user may access a multi channel communication environment mobile application log into a multi channel communication environment web site or access a multi channel communication environment user account via an entity portal e.g. an entity specific mobile application or web site including access to account information in the multi channel communication environment .

Turning to a first user interface illustrates a main dashboard for access to user information within the multi channel communication environment. A user may be presented with the user interface for example upon logging into a user account with the multi channel communication environment.

The main dashboard illustrates a series of configuration categories including a communications hub a profile vault a transaction hub a service vault and an identification hub . Each of the configuration categories upon selection are operable to provide the user with configuration management in each of the separate categories. In some implementations the number of configuration categories available to a user may be based upon a service level associated with the user. For example a customer of a retailer bank or other financial or transaction based organization affiliated with the multi channel communication environment may have access to the transaction hub while a user affiliated only with an employer entity e.g. for distribution of work related event may not have need for the transaction hub . In another example based upon entities affiliated with the user the user may not be provided the opportunity to manipulate services using the service vault

Beneath the configuration categories the main dashboard includes a series of information categories . The information categories include events category a communication log category a list of transactions category a pending opt in category and a new service available category . Each of the information categories upon selection are configured to present the user with details regarding the particular information category . In some implementations one or more of the information categories when selected provide the user the opportunity to further configure the user account.

The events category when selected in some implementations provides the user with a view of pending and or recently delivered events e.g. in the last hour 24 hours week etc. .

The communication log category upon selection presents the user with information regarding correspondences via the multi channel communication environment. For example the communications log may present a summary of pending events messages posts emails and other information. The summary for example may identify events by communication channel time source entity and type of communication e.g. category and or priority . The user in some implementations may select a particular notification from the summary to access additional details regarding the notification including for example a copy of the notification.

In some implementations statistical information may be presented to the user via the communication log . For example the user may review a number of notifications delivered per communication channel e.g. 19 posts to a first social networking account 6 posts to a second social networking account 11 emails to a first email address etc. .

The list of transactions category in some implementations provides the user upon selection with information regarding one or more transactions conducted via the multi channel communication environment. The transactions for example may be conducted via payment instruments configured within the multi channel communication environment such as a bank account a credit card or an electronic wallet eWallet account. In some implementations statistical information may be presented to the user via the list of transactions category . For example the user may review a number of transactions conducted via each of the configured payment instruments.

The pending opt in category when selected in some implementations presents the user with one or more services for configuration. For example the user may have configured a statement delivery service and fraud detection notification service with a bank via the multi channel communication environment. The bank may additionally have an electronic payment service available for configuration. Upon viewing the pending opt in category for example the user may be presented the opportunity to configure communication channel information and other information for the electronic payment service. In some implementations the pending opt in category may present the user with one or more partially configured services.

The new service available category in some implementations presents the user upon selection with one or more services recently added by one or more entities affiliated with the user. For example if the electronic payment service described in relation to the pending opt in category were a new service the electronic payment service may be presented to the user via the new service available category

In some implementations the new service available category is configured to present the user with services provided by additional entities e.g. entities not yet affiliated with the user . For example should a new retailer join the multi channel communication environment the user may be presented the opportunity to sign up for one or more services with the new retailer via the new service category . In some implementations new entities may be presented to the user based upon evidence of the user already being affiliated with the new entity. For example based upon transaction information e.g. collected in the list of transactions category the multi channel communication environment may identify that the user has made one or more purchases from the new retailer.

In some implementations a preview logo may be presented to a user in relation to one or more of the information categories for example to identify new information. For example a preview logo presented in relation to the notifications category identifies to the user that five notifications are available for review. A second preview logo presented in relation to the pending opt in category alerts the user that there are five services pending opt in. A third preview logo presented in relation to the new service available category alerts the user that there are five new services available.

Returning to the configuration categories each configuration category will be described in detail below in relation to a corresponding configuration user interface. For example upon selection of the identification hub the user may be presented with an identification hub user interface as illustrated in .

Turning to the identification hub user interface includes a series of configuration controls for configuring personal information e.g. information items regarding the user including a name control a date of birth control a home address control a work address control a marital status control and an employee number control . The configuration controls presented to the user in some implementations are presented based in part upon entities affiliated with the user. For example an employee number control may be presented to the user if the user is affiliated with an employer e.g. signed up for one or more services provided by the user s employer within the multi channel communication environment.

Various personal information may be desired and or required for example depending upon the entities affiliated with the user. For example as illustrated in relation to each of the series of configuration controls a respective number of services using this information indicator alerts the user to the number of services that are interested in accessing the personal information requested by the associated configuration control . In some implementations the indicators identify the number of services configured by the user that access the associated information. The indicators in some implementations identify the number of services available from the entities affiliated with the user that access the associated information. Upon configuration of a new service in some implementations the user is prompted to enter personal information used by the new service if this personal information has not yet been entered. For example at a later time the user may configure a service that makes use of the user s sex. During configuration of the new service the multi channel communication environment may prompt the user to enter information regarding sex. In some implementations a user will be considered to be pending opt in for a service until the requested personal information has been entered. For example turning to the indicator associated with the pending opt in category may identify that the user has not yet fulfilled the personal information requirements to enable one or more services.

Returning to in some implementations a user may protect the information collected via the series of configuration controls by setting individual privacy levels via a profile vault described below in relation to . As illustrated in relation to each of the series of configuration controls a respective vault status indicator indicates a current privacy status designated for the associated personal information requested by the respective configuration control . In some implementations the privacy status includes a label designator e.g. public private secure etc. . The privacy status in some implementations may be indicated by a color scheme e.g. green for public information yellow for private information red for secure information etc. . The privacy status in some implementations is configurable in part by the user for example via the profile vault described in relation to .

In some implementations to protect a user s privacy in light of the personal information and other configuration information collected by the multi channel communication environment the multi channel communication environment maintains a distributed fragmented system such that the information items presented by the configuration controls cannot be assembled by a hacker.

Returning to upon selection of the communication hub the user may be presented with a communication hub user interface as illustrated in . Turning to the communication hub user interface includes a series of communication channel types including a social network channel type an email channel type and a telephone channel type . Other communication channel types can include machine to machine communication channels such as in some examples a smart car or smart TV. The communication channel types for example may correlate to the communication channels described in relation to . Any number of channels may be correlated to each channel type. For example as illustrated in four different social networks have been configured within the social network channel type . Furthermore four different email addresses have been configured within the email channel type and three different phone numbers have been configured within the telephone channel type .

Within each of the communication channel types and the user is presented with an add new channel option . Upon selection of one of the add new channel options in some implementations the user is presented with a configuration interface to enter information regarding the new configuration channel.

In some implementations one or more of the communication channels may be inactive. In some examples a communication channel may be inactive until approved e.g. a verification message is sent via the communication channel and the user issues a response if previously failed e.g. phone number disconnected email address bouncing etc. or if designated by other configuration parameters e.g. certain channels disabled during the weekend while on vacation etc. . If a channel is inactive in some implementations the user interface presents a visual indication e.g. grayed out different color highlighted etc. to draw the user s attention to a potential problem with the communication channel. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations disabling of a communication channel may be presented to the user upon selection of the notifications category as shown in .

Using the various communication channels configured in some implementations the user may designate different channels based upon notification priority. For example within a notification preferences pane a priority scale indicator provides the user with a visual indication of relative priority of configured communication channels. In some implementations the user may drag and drop communication channels into the notification preferences pane . As illustrated the user has configured in order of priority a mobile phone SMS channel as the highest priority communication channel email address as the second highest priority communication channel email address as the third highest priority communications channel and social network as the low priority communications channel. As indicated within the notification preferences pane the user has the opportunity to add a fifth communication channel as the lowest priority communications channel. In some implementations if the user does not designate a lowest priority communications channel the multi channel communication environment designates the lowest priority communications channel configured e.g. the social network for receipt of the lowest priority notifications. In some implementations failure to designate a communications channel for the lowest priority communications indicates that the user is not interested in receiving notifications designated as lowest priority. Similarly should one of the configured communication channels become inactive in some implementations the multi channel communication environment may default to another configured channel e.g. the next highest or next lowest in priority . In other implementations upon inactivity of a configured communication channel notifications of the corresponding priority may fail to be transmitted. In some implementations the failed notifications may be reviewed at a later time for example by selecting the communications log category as illustrated in .

Similar to the discussion with reference to the notification preferences pane a direct communication preferences pane in some implementations allows the user to configure communication channels on a priority scale indicated by a priority scale indicator for receipt of direct communications. As illustrated three communication channels are configured in order of preference the mobile phone SMS channel and a work phone SMS channel and the work phone voice communications . As with the notification preferences pane the direct communications pane includes an add new channel for designating a lowest priority channel for direct communications.

In some implementations the configuration presented within the notification preferences pane and the direct communication preferences pane provides communication channel preferences to the entities directing notifications and other communications to the user via the multi channel communication environment. The multi channel communication environment in some implementations additionally or alternatively includes features for individually configuring notification and or direct communication preferences on a per entity or per service basis. Additionally in some implementations settings may be applied in some implementations on a system wide or per entity basis for designating behavior upon inactivity or failure of communication channels.

Returning to upon selection of the transaction hub the user may be presented with a transaction hub user interface as illustrated in . Turning to the transaction hub user interface includes a series of payment instrument types including a bank account type a credit card type and an electronic wallet type . The payment instrument types for example may be used in conducting transactions with an entity such as the sources described in relation to . Any number of payment instruments may be correlated to each payment instrument type . For example as illustrated in two different bank accounts have been configured within the bank account type . Furthermore two different credit cards have been configured within the credit card type and three different electronic wallet accounts have been configured within the electronic wallet type .

Within each of the payment instrument types and the user is presented with an add new channel option . Upon selection of one of the add new channel options in some implementations the user is presented with a configuration interface to enter information regarding the new payment instrument.

In some implementations one or more of the payment instruments may be inactive. In some examples a payment instrument may be inactive until approved e.g. a verification message is sent via a default communication channel and the user issues a response a verification transmission is sent to the credit card company or bank to authenticate the payment instrument etc. if previously failed e.g. account overdrawn suspended cancelled etc. or if designated by other configuration parameters e.g. disabled by the user etc. . If a payment instrument is inactive in some implementations the user interface presents a visual indication e.g. grayed out different color highlighted etc. to draw the user s attention to a potential problem with the payment instrument. Additionally or alternatively in some implementations disabling of a payment instrument may be presented to the user upon selection of the notifications category as shown in .

Using the various payment instruments configured by the user in some implementations the user may designate different payment preferences and in some cases coordinate transaction notification preferences. For example using a money transfer preferences pane in some implementations the user may drag and drop payment instruments used for transferring money e.g. in the case of overdraw . As illustrated the user has configured bank account for transference of funds to bank account 

A payment preferences pane in some implementations allows the user to configure a default payment instrument for conducting transactions. As illustrated the payment preferences pane designates credit card and the mobile phone channel for making payments via the multi channel communication environment. In some implementations the user has the option to designate both a primary payment preference and a secondary payment preference not illustrated . For example should a first credit card fail e.g. due to suspension in light of suspected fraudulent activity etc. the payment method would revert to the secondary payment preference. Similarly should the primary communication channel fail e.g. not accessible no response from user within a predetermined period of time in some implementations the user is provided the opportunity to designate a secondary communication channel. For example the mobile phone channel may be designated as a confirmation channel for receiving confirmation from the user prior to conducting the transaction. Should the user fail to respond within a predetermined amount of time for example the transaction may be aborted or if a secondary communication channel is configured the multi channel communication environment may attempt to reach the user via the secondary communication channel . In some implementations the user may have the opportunity to specify purpose driven payment preferences. For example the user may designate separate preferences for business transactions versus personal transactions.

Similar to the discussion presented in relation to the payment preferences pane in some implementations an electronic wallet preferences pane allows the user to configure a default payment instrument for conducting electronic wallet transactions. As illustrated the electronic wallet preferences pane designates electronic wallet retailer bank account and the mobile phone communication channel for conducting electronic wallet transactions via the multi channel communication environment. In some implementations the user has the option to designate both a primary electronic wallet payment preference and a secondary electronic wallet payment preference not illustrated . In some implementations the user may have the opportunity to specify purpose driven electronic wallet payment preferences. For example the user may designate separate preferences for business transactions versus personal transactions.

In some implementations the configuration presented within the money transfer preferences pane the payment preferences pane and the electronic wallet preferences pane provides payment instrument preferences to the entities conducting transactions with the user via the multi channel communication environment. The multi channel communication environment in some implementations additionally or alternatively includes features for individually configuring payment instrument preferences on a per entity or per service basis.

Returning to upon selection of the profile vault the user may be presented with a profile vault user interface as illustrated in . Turning to the profile vault user interface includes a series of privacy zones . The user can customize exposure of various personal information via the profile vault user interface by designating separate privacy zones for each portion of the profile information e.g. each information item . In some implementations each of the privacy zones are illustrated in a separate color as a visual reminder of security exposure. For example very sensitive information may be placed in zone secure rendered red while publicly exposed information may be placed in zone public rendered green. A zone work rendered yellow may for example expose information only to other employees of the user s company.

A zone others in some implementations contains information items not yet assigned to a privacy zone . For example prior to user manipulation at least a portion of the various information items may be presented within a default security zone . Any information items not designated by the user for a specific security zone for example may be rendered within the zone others . Information items within zone others for example may be individually color coded to indicate a default privacy designation. For example each of social network and social network may be rendered green to illustrate that the social network items default to zone public

In some implementations the security zone designation is used by the multi channel communication environment in determining a method for storing the information item. For example the multi channel communication environment may protect information items designated within zone secure such that each information item and is stored in an encrypted or otherwise protected state. Information items within zone public and on the other hand may be stored as plain text. Other security measures may be applied based in part upon the designated security zone .

In some implementations the user may be incapable of modifying the security designation of at least a portion of the information items. For example the credit cards and and the bank accounts and are illustrated within the zone secure . In some implementations payment instrument information items are locked to zone secure

The requesting entity e.g. originating entity of a particular information item in some implementations may designate an appropriate privacy zone for the information item. In some implementations the requesting entity may designate whether the information item is to be locked to that privacy zone . For example employee number may be designated for zone work by the employer.

In some implementations upon configuring a new information item such as profile information a communication channel or a payment instrument the user is prompted to select a privacy setting for the information item. For example using the identification hub of the transaction hub of or the communication hub of the user may configure and specify the privacy setting for a new information item. The user for example may choose to allow the information item to be shared with one or more additional organizations. In some implementations the user is provided the opportunity to identify whether information is to be shared freely or if compensation is required for sharing the information. For example the user may require a form of compensation in exchange for allowing a third party organization to access the information entered within the new information item. The compensation in some examples may include remuneration e.g. into a user configured bank or eWallet account etc. or other item with monetary value such as a gift certificate or coupon and or an organization specific compensation such as a membership upgrade or membership points In some implementations the user may be prompted prior to allowing information to be shared with another organization.

Returning to upon selection of the service vault the user may be presented with a service vault user interface as illustrated in . Turning to the service vault user interface includes a series of protection zones . Within each of the protection zones a number of services and are displayed. Each of the services and is associated with a particular entity. For example the city services are associated with a city government entity the E GOV services are associated with a government entity e.g. municipal state district province etc. the school service is associated with a school e.g. public school district individual school government service regarding closures of schools in a particular district municipality or state etc. the bank services are associated with a banking institution the employer service is associated with a corporation or other employer and the health service is associated with a health services entity e.g. insurance company doctor s office hospital or other health organization . The entities associated with the various services and for example are affiliated with the multi channel communication environment to distribute notifications and other services to users via user configured communication channels.

In some implementations the user has no control over customization of the protection zones . For example each of the services and may be allocated to a particular protection zone based at least in part upon the privacy settings of the various information items accessed by the particular service or e.g. the information items designated to the various privacy zones as described in relation to . In some implementations the entity may determine a particular protection zone for a particular service. For example the financial institution entity may designate a bank service for high protection allocating the bank service to a zone secure

In some implementations each of the protection zones are illustrated in a separate color as a visual indicator of security exposure. For example very sensitive information may be placed in zone secure rendered red while publicly exposed information may be placed in zone public rendered green. A zone private rendered yellow may for example include information that is partially protected or protected in a less robust manner e.g. secured transmission channel but not encrypted information etc. .

In some implementations each of the protection zones is associated with a set of allowed behaviors by the associated services. Within zone secure for example information may be relayed by the services and while the service itself is not capable of copying information. The zone secure for example may identify services and involved in financial transaction. The services and associated with the zone secure for example may use protected transmission paths within the multi channel communication environment. In some implementations the multi channel communication environment maintains a portion of information relayed via the services and in a protected manner e.g. within a secure storage region . For example the multi channel communication environment may maintain a transaction history for each service or on behalf of at least a portion of the users utilizing the protection zone secure services and .

Turning to protection zone private private protection for example may relate to the services and each having the ability to maintain a portion of the information contained within associated information items. For example a service may be able to maintain a home address e.g. home address as illustrated in zone secure of FIG. E but not a secured email address e.g. email as illustrated in zone secure of . Additionally in some implementations services and identified within protection zone private may use protected transmission paths within the multi channel communication environment.

Turning to protection zone public public protection for example may signify that the services and each have the ability to maintain any and all information contained within the associated information items. Additionally the services and may relay information in some implementations via unprotected communication channels.

While reviewing the service vault user interface in some implementations the user can suspend or cancel a particular service. For example by selecting a particular service or the user may be presented with a dialog box or other user interface screen with one or more controls associated with the performance of the selected service or . In some implementations upon selection of a particular service or the user may review which information items are used by the particular service or .

The user interface includes a personal information section for collecting personal information regarding the user e.g. for establishing a user profile a communication preferences section for collecting communication channel information regarding email addresses social network accounts telephone numbers and mobile phone applications associated with the user e.g. for identifying communication channels for the communication of notifications and a notification services section for collecting notification preferences e.g. subscriptions to one or more services with affiliated communication channels .

Beginning with the personal information section the information collected may correlate to the identification hub user interface of . The bank in this circumstance may control privacy settings for the various information collected using the personal information section e.g. correlating to the privacy zones of . A portion of the services configured via the notification services section in some implementations use a portion of the personal information entered into the personal information section.

The communication preferences section is configured to collect information regarding a number of communication channels associated with the user such as email channels text messaging channels social networking channels and telephone channels and mobile application channels . Additionally the user is invited to select a preferred default channel . The bank in this circumstance may control privacy settings for the various information collected using the communication preferences section e.g. correlating to the privacy zones of .

The communication channels in some implementations are identified by the user when configuring notification services via the notification services section . Notification services are grouped by product type such as in some examples a car loan type a mortgage type a bank account type a home equity credit line type and a credit card type . The product types map to various products the user has acquired from the bank.

As illustrated the bank account type has been selected and a number of notification services are presented to the user including a fraud attempt detection notification a minimum amount alert notification a 10 credit left notification a check emission counter notification and a house loan notification. Each notification is associated with an account number a start date and required communication channels .

As illustrated the user has subscribed to both the fraud attempt detection notification and the check emission counter notification. Each of these notification services is associated with required communication channels including a text messaging channel and an email channel. Upon selection of one of the services if the user has configured more than one of a particular type of communication channel e.g. two or more email addresses two or more phone numbers for text messaging etc. the user may be prompted to select a preferred communication channel. Configuration of the notification services for example may correlate to the notification preferences pane of the identification hub user interface described in relation to .

In some implementations the multi channel sub application derives contextual data from one or more peripheral features of the mobile device . The contextual data in some examples may include transaction data derived from an e Wallet peripheral feature position information derived from a geolocation peripheral feature or user identification information derived from a biometric feature . In other examples the contextual data may include transmission and or transaction information derived from a near field communication NFC peripheral feature image data derived from a camera feature or an optical scan feature scan data derived from the optical scan feature e.g. QR code contents product identifier from bar code scan etc. or audio data derived from an audio recording peripheral feature

In some implementations the multi channel communication environment saves a portion of the contextual data for example within the user profile data store . For example contextual data related to transactions may be collected by the entity for statistical or record keeping purposes.

The multi channel communication environment in some implementations matches a portion of the contextual data to one or more contextual events . The contextual events for example may relate to products services or events associated with the entity. In another example the contextual events may relate to products services or events associated with affiliates of the entity e.g. other entities registered with the multi channel communication environment or separate entities . The data manager of the session agent for example may match one or more contextual events with the contextual data received by the session manager during a session established by the communication of a particular service to the user via the multi channel sub application . In some implementations contextual data is received outside of a notification session. For example while the multi channel sub application is active upon the mobile device contextual data may be collected and delivered e.g. periodically upon occurrence of an event etc. to the multi channel communication environment . This contextual data for example may include geo location information. A contextual event service of the multi channel communication environment in some implementations may serve one or more contextual events in relation to the polled contextual data .

The multi channel communication environment may serve one or more contextual events to the user responsive to a contextual match between the contextual data and one or more contextual events . For example a particular contextual event may be provided to the user within the entity mobile application . In another example the particular contextual event may be provided to the user via a different communication channel registered to the user such as the email channel the SMS channel or the social network channel . The user in some implementations may be provided configuration options related to how contextual events are received. For example the user may designate one or more channels for receipt of contextual events related to affiliates of the entity and one or more optionally different channels for receipt of contextual events related to the entity.

In a particular example contextual data received from the mobile computing device via the multi channel sub application may identify a user location within a predetermined distance of a brick and mortar store owned by a coffee shop entity. Based upon user data in the user profile data store the multi channel communication environment may additionally identify that the user has made one or more transactions with the entity for a particular type of latte. The multi channel communication environment may match the combination of the geolocation information and the transaction information with a contextual event e.g. marketing offer for a discount on a latte. The contextual event for example may identify to the user information regarding the nearest brick and mortar location. The multi channel sub application may push the contextual event to the user vial the entity mobile application .

In another example contextual data received from computing devices of multiple team members e.g. via the multi channel sub application or another reference mechanism may identify the closest team member or team members to a problem which needs on site attention. For example a closest team member of an Information Technology IT service company to an out of order printer may be issued a message to proceed if possible to the location of the printer to resolve the issue. One of more team members upon receipt of the message may acknowledge and confirm availability via the multi channel environment e.g. via one of the communication channels .

In some implementations steps of a workflow may be adjusted based upon available contextual data . For example upon receipt by the multi channel communication environment of a fraud alert from a financial organization communication source the multi channel communication environment may review archived contextual data and or request current contextual data including a geolocation corresponding to the user device. Should the multi channel communication environment determine that the user is located within a threshold distance of a physical location affiliated with the financial organization e.g. branch office ATM machine etc. the workflow may branch to a step requesting the user to proceed to the nearest physical location to authenticate a recent transaction.

In some implementations the method begins with receiving user information from an entity . The entity for example is registered to provide notification services to users through a multi channel communication environment such as the multi channel communication environment described in relation to and . The user information provided to the entity by a user e.g. customer client employee of the entity for example may include personal information such as name address telephone number birth date and email address. In some implementations at least a portion of the information is received via an entity mobile application. For example the entity mobile application may include a multi channel sub application configured to support communications between a user at a mobile computing device and a multi channel communication environment. In some implementations at least a portion of the information is received via an entity web site. For example the entity web site may include a portal for configuring information in the multi channel communication environment.

In some implementations the user information is stored in a user profile . The user profile for example may include a collection of information regarding the user and notification services the user has registered to receive. In some implementations the user information is stored in the user profile data store described in relation to and .

In some implementations user device peripheral data is received via an entity software application . In some implementations the peripheral data e.g. contextual data as described in relation to may be polled prior to service of an event to the user of the user device. For example geolocation information may be polled prior to service of an event such that one or more contextual events contextual features and or workflow steps may be added to the event. In some implementations the peripheral data may be collected upon service of information associated with an event to the user. The peripheral data for example may be included within a response from the user to information issued by the multi channel communication environment on behalf of the entity. The peripheral data in some implementations may be provided by a multi channel sub application of an entity software application such as the multi channel sub application described in relation to . For example upon an event e.g. launching of the entity software application using an eWallet account via the entity software application etc. the multi channel sub application may provide peripheral data to the multi channel communication environment. In another example while the multi channel sub application is active the multi channel sub application may collect peripheral data and provide it e.g. on a periodic and or event driven basis to the multi channel communication environment.

The peripheral data in some implementations is stored by the multi channel communication environment. For example a portion of the peripheral data may be collected for managing event service and or transaction history by the entity and or for establishing behavior patterns of the user. The peripheral data for example may be stored within the user profile data store as described in relation to .

In some implementations the peripheral data is compared to one or more contextual events . In some implementations the contextual event service described in relation to compares the peripheral data to one or more contextual events associated with the entity or an affiliate of the entity. The contextual events in some implementations may rely on geolocation data transaction data product data user demographic information and other information collected or received e.g. via peripheral data regarding the user. The contextual event service for example may combine the peripheral data with user demographic data historic peripheral data or other information related to the user in identifying one or more contextual events.

If no matching contextual events are identified in some implementations the method returns to receiving user device peripheral data . If instead at least one matching contextual event has been identified in some implementations information associated with the contextual event s is provided for presentation to the user . One or more of the contextual events in some implementations are presented to the user via the entity software application executing upon the user device. The contextual event s for example may be presented to the user in relation to a notification service provided to the user. In some implementations the contextual event s are provided for presentation upon a separate communication channel configured by the user. For example contextual events may be served to a user s SMS phone number email address or social networking account. If the user is presently driving near a brick and mortar location of the entity or entity affiliate for example the user may receive the contextual event via a smart car communication channel. If the user is presently watching a program in another example the contextual event may be displayed to the user as a banner advertisement scrolling along the bottom of a smart TV.

If the user fails to respond to one of the contextual events in some implementations the method returns to receiving mobile device peripheral data . Otherwise if the user responds to the contextual event information regarding the user s response to the contextual event in some implementations is stored . For example a user may be provided the opportunity to accept or decline a contextual event e.g. via controls provided by the entity software application etc. . In another example a user may respond by redeeming a contextual event or carrying out instructions presented by the contextual event. For example the user may conduct a transaction related to the contextual event or visit a physical location identified within the contextual event. In some implementations identifying a user response includes identifying a geolocation or transaction information provided by the multi channel sub application in subsequent contextual data. For example based upon geolocation information derived from the user device the multi channel sub application may identify that the user is within the vicinity of the physical location. In another example based upon eWallet information or NFC information derived from the user device the multi channel sub application may identify that the user conducted a transaction related to the contextual event.

In some implementations the user may respond by redeeming a contextual event or responding to the contextual event via the multi channel communication environment. For example using a preconfigured transaction service the user may conduct a transaction related to the contextual event. The multi channel communication environment may match the transaction information of the transaction conducted using the preconfigured transaction service with the contextual event. The transaction service for example may be configured using the payment preferences pane or electronic wallet preferences pane as described in relation to .

In some implementations the information regarding the user s response or reaction to the contextual event is stored within the user profile data store as described in relation to .

In operation the workflow request engine may receive a message from an external system . The workflow request engine may transmit the message to the workflow manager . The workflow manager may identify a user. In some implementations the workflow manager may parse the message to obtain an identification of a user. In some implementations the workflow manager may retrieve information about the user. For example the workflow manager may communicate with a user profile database to retrieve the user s profile. In some implementations a user profile may include the user s name and information about communication channels to which the user has consented e.g. e mail short message service or SMS mobile application mobile site interactive voice response IVR Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Wi Fi tagging radio frequency identification RFID mediums . The user profile may include indicia of the communication channels to which the user has consented e.g. e mail address mobile telephone number uniform resource locator URL internet protocol IP address of a computing device identification number of a computing device identifier associated with single sign on SSO identifier associated with an identification scheme such as OpenID Facebook ID Twitter ID or Google ID .

The workflow manager may identify a workflow for execution based on the message. In some implementations the message from the external system may identify the workflow. For example the message may include a request to execute a workflow with a specified identification number. In some implementations the workflow manager may analyze the message to select the workflow. For example the message may identify an event. The workflow manager may select the workflow according to the event.

In some implementations the workflow manager may obtain one or more workflow definition files associated with the workflow. The workflow manager may obtain the files from a workflow definition file store e.g. HTTP servers REST servers file systems FTP servers web based distributed authoring and versioning WebDAV servers .

In some implementations the workflow manager may analyze the workflow against the user profile to determine if a workflow instance should be created for execution. In some implementations the workflow manager may analyze the first step of the workflow. The first step may require communication with a user through a specified communication channel. The workflow manager may determine based on the user profile that the user has not consented to communication on the specified channel e.g. the user profile does not include a mobile telephone number . The workflow manager may determine the workflow cannot be performed. In some implementations the workflow manager may send a message indicating the workflow cannot be performed to the workflow request engine . The workflow request engine may send the message to the external system that requested the workflow.

In some implementations the workflow manager may analyze each step in the workflow. The workflow manager may determine one or more steps that require communication on specified channels. The workflow manager may compare the specified channels against the communication channels in the user profile. If the user profile does not include one or more of the specified communication channels the workflow manager may determine the workflow cannot be performed. In some implementations the workflow manager may send a message indicating the workflow cannot be performed to the workflow request engine . The workflow request engine may send the message to the external system that requested the workflow.

In some implementations the user profile may include all the communication channels specified by the workflow steps. The workflow manager may create the workflow instance. The workflow instance may include an identifier such as an identification number. In some implementations the workflow manager may use parameters from the message from the external system when creating the instance. Exemplary parameters include the periods of time for each step of the workflow in which the user must respond to communication the addresses that shall receive the responses and or the requirement for a read receipt regarding a communication.

In some implementations the workflow manager may send the identifier and the user profile to the session manager . The session manager may correlate the workflow instance with the indicia of the communication channels to which the user has consented. For example the session manager may correlate the identification number of a workflow instance with a user s e mail address mobile telephone number mobile devices or any combination thereof The session manager may create a log for the workflow instance. In some implementations the session manager may associated the workflow instance with a predetermined period of time before the workflow instance expires.

The workflow manager may execute the workflow instance. In some implementations a step of the workflow instance may require communication with the user. In some implementations the step may specify the communication channel to be used. For example the step may include sending an SMS message to the user s mobile telephone number. In some implementations the step may specify alternative communication channels that may be used. In some implementations the step may prioritize one communication channel over another. For example the step may include sending an SMS message to the user s mobile telephone number if the user s mobile telephone number is provided in the user profile. If the user s mobile telephone number is not available the step may alternatively include sending an e mail message to the user s e mail address.

The workflow manager may send an instruction to the notification engine . The instruction may include the message to send to the user based on the step in the workflow instance. The instruction may include the communication channel through which the message shall be sent. The instruction may include the indicia associated with the user for the communication channel. The notification engine may process the instruction. The notification engine may communicate with a third party service e.g. electronic mail server SMS gateway server mobile application server to send the user the message through the specified communication channel. The user may access the message on a client device .

In some implementations the workflow manager may send the instruction to the session manager . The session manager may log an entry for the workflow instance corresponding to the instruction.

In some implementations a step of the workflow instance may require receipt of communication from the user. In some implementations the notification engine may receive a message from a third party service such as an electronic mail server SMS gateway server or mobile application server although servers associated with any of the communication channels described herein may also be used. The notification engine may send the message to the workflow manager and or the session manager . The session manager may parse the message to determine the indicia of the communication channel corresponding to the source of the message. The session manager may identify one or more workflow instances correlated with the indicia. The session manager may send the one or more workflow instance identifiers and the received message to the workflow manager . The session manager may log an entry for the workflow instance corresponding to the communication received from the user.

The workflow manager may process the received message according to the step in the workflow instance. The workflow manager may continue to execute the steps in the workflow. In some implementations when the session manager completes execution of the workflow instance the session manager may determine one or more results of the instance. The session manager may instruct the workflow request system to send the result s to the external system that requested the workflow. In some implementations the session manager may store the identifier of the workflow instance and or result s of the executed instance for future retrieval for external systems .

In some implementations one or more engines of the system may execute on an application server. All the engines may execute on the same server. In some implementations some of the engines execute on one server while other engines execute on different servers. In some implementations more than one server may execute any engine of the system . In some implementations the engines may execute on one or more Java application servers. In some implementations the engines may execute on any version of the WebSphere Application Servers as manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y.

In some implementations any of the engines described herein may be implemented as Java classes. In some implementations the workflow manager creates additional engines needed for a workflow instance upon creation of the instance itself In some implementations the workflow manager may include a Drools 5 product manufactured by Apache.

In some implementations the session manager may store information about correlations between workflow instances and indicia of communication channels in a relational database of a relational database management system RDBMS . In some implementations the session manager may store logs of workflow instances in a relational database. The session manager may interact with a persistence layer to store the information. In some implementations the session manager may communicate with the persistence layer via a Java Persistence API JPA such as Hibernate. The persistence layer may communication with one or more relational databases via Java DataBase Connectivity JDBC . Exemplary relational databases may be DB2 V9 provided by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y.

In some implementations the notification engine may include a message queuing system. The message queuing system may include send queues e.g. prioritized send queues that store messages to be sent to users. The message queuing system may include the receive queues that store messages received from users. In some implementations the message queuing system may be WebSphere MQ manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. In some implementations the message queuing system may be SIBus e.g. a default message queuing system used by the WebSphere Application Server.

In some implementations the system may communicate with users who form at least part of a mobile workforce. In some implementations the system may connect with computing devices via Wi Fi or radio frequency identification RFID . In some implementations the system may be leveraged for business to business communications and or transactions.

In some implementations external systems may be legacy systems content management system CMS customer relationship management CRM systems supply chain management SCM systems enterprise resource planning ERP systems portals enterprise systems or any other system as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some implementations the messages that external systems send to the system may be in any format. For example a message may be in a comma separated values CSV format. In another example a message may have an American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII format. In another example a message may have an Extensible Markup Language XML format.

In some implementations an external system may interact with the system using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . In some implementations a message an external system sends to the system requesting execution of a workflow may conform to the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . In some implementations a message an external system sends to the system requesting the result s of an executed workflow may conform to the Representational State Transfer REST protocol.

In some implementations the workflow request engine may interact with external systems through a workflow integration layer not shown such as an enterprise workflow integration layer. The external systems may interface with the workflow integration layer via web services or other non intrusive systems. In some implementations an external system may be an external client enterprise system. The external client enterprise system may send a message with an event to the workflow integration layer via invoking a service associated with the workflow integration layer by way of example. The workflow integration layer may send the message to the workflow request engine . In some implementations the workflow request engine may receive a result of an executed workflow instance and or information in a communication from a user received from a client device . The workflow request engine may invoke a service associated with the workflow integration layer to transmit the information to the external system .

Referring now to the system for communicating bi directionally across multiple communication channels for a workflow is shown and described in further detail. The system includes at least one processor and at least one memory. The at least one memory is configured to store instructions that when executed implement a workflow manager with a workflow coordinator workflow engine and or workflow definition loader . The at least one memory is configured to store instructions that when executed implement a session manager with a correlation engine and or logging engine .

In some implementations the workflow coordinator may manage communication between the other engines. For example the workflow coordinator may receive a communication from a user from the notification engine . The workflow coordinator may send the communication to the session manager to correlate to a workflow instance. The session manager may send the instance s identifier to the workflow coordinator . The workflow coordinator may send the identifier and the communication to the workflow manager . In another example as the workflow manager executes a workflow instance the workflow manager may send the instance s identifier and information about communications sent to users to the workflow coordinator . The workflow coordinator may send the identifier and information to the session manager for recordation in the instance s log.

In operation the workflow definition loader may communicate with the workflow definition file store s to obtain workflow definition files. After receiving the identifier of a workflow from the workflow coordinator the workflow definition loader may retrieve from memory one or more files identifying the location s of workflow definition files for the workflow. In some implementations the loader may retrieve an XML file with the identifier of the workflow the URLs of the file store with the workflow definition files and the URLs of the files. Using the URLs the loader may request the files from a file store . The loader may load the files into the workflow engine for execution.

In some implementations the workflow definition files may be Drools flow and rule files as developed by Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. In some implementations the workflow definition files may describe a workflow using business process modeling notation BPMN . In some implementations the files may be created using any business rule management system BRMS as would be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some implementations the loader or the workflow engine may store one or results of executed workflow instances in the workflow definition file stores . The loader or engine may send the instance s identifier and result s to the file store . In some implementations the result s may be stored with the workflow definition files.

In operation the workflow engine may execute an instance of a workflow. In some implementations the engine may execute multiple workflow instances. One or more of the workflow instances may be created and executed based on the same workflow e.g. the workflow engine may use the same workflow definition files to create the instances. The workflow engine may distinguish between the instances based on e.g. their identifiers.

In some implementations the workflow manager may use asynchronous messaging. For example executing a step in a workflow instance may require information to be provided by a user. Until the user transmits such information to the workflow engine further execution of the workflow instance may be stalled. In some implementations the workflow instance may enter an interruptible blocking state as the instance waits for a communication with needed information to arrive. The workflow engine may place the workflow instance in a queue. When information needed for a workflow instance is received the workflow engine may retrieve the workflow instance from the queue and continue executing the workflow instance. The workflow instance may process the information synchronously at specific steps within the workflow.

In some implementations the notification engine may receive the communication from the user with the information for a workflow instance. However the workflow engine may be processing a different workflow instance. The notification engine and or the workflow engine may place the communication in a communication queue. The workflow engine may complete processing of the different workflow instance and or place the different workflow engine in a workflow instance queue until receipt of further information for that instance is received. The workflow engine may retrieve the communication from the communication queue and the workflow instance corresponding to the communication. The workflow engine may continue execution of the workflow instance corresponding to the received communication.

In some implementations the workflow manager may place a received communication in a communication processing queue. The workflow manager may place multiple communications in the processing queue. In some implementations system may include multiple communication processing queues each queue corresponding to a workflow instance.

In some implementations the workflow manager may deliver a communication to multiple workflow instances. For example the workflow coordinator may place a received communication in the communication processing queues for multiple workflow instances. The workflow coordinator may place a communication in multiple processing queues according to correlations between workflow instances and an indicia associated with the communication channel through which the communication was received. For example a user s mobile phone number e mail address or other indicia may be correllated with more than one workflow instance. The workflow coordinator may place a communication from a user s mobile phone in processing queues for the workflow instances by way of example. In some implementations workflow instances may discard communications whose information would not be processed as part of their respective workflows.

In some implementations the workflow engine may create and or invoke additional engines not shown in the course of executing the workflow instance. For example the workflow engine may determine that a step in the workflow instance requires use of a particular engine. The processor s executing the workflow engine may access memory to retrieve instructions that when executed implement the particular engine. Exemplary engines may include engines for communication and engines for specialized functions although other engines may be used.

In some implementations a communication engine may enable communicate with a user via short messaging services SMS multimedia messaging service MMS electronic mail also referred to herein as e mail mobile application and other communication channels described herein. For example a communication engine may create a message to be sent to a user via SMS. The engine may conform the message to the protocol for SMS e.g. the Mobile Application Part MAP of the SS7 protocol. The engine may send the message to the service provider associated with the user s mobile phone number. In some implementations the engine may send the message to an aggregator which determines the service provider associated with the mobile phone number and sends the message to that service provide.

In some implementations a communication engine may be a geolocation engine. A geolocation engine may communicate with at least one of the user s mobile computing devices and or their associated service providers to obtain the user s geolocation e.g. latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates . For example the geolocation engine may request the location of the user s mobile phone from the phone itself. The mobile phone may include a global positioning system GPS service. The mobile phone may communicate with the GPS service to obtain its geolocation. The mobile phone may transmit the geolocation provided by the GPS service to the geolocation engine on the system . The geolocation engine may send the geolocation to the workflow engine to process in the course of executing a workflow instance step.

In some implementations a communication engine may be an interactive voice response IVR engine. The IVR engine may receive an audio file created by one of the user s devices. The IVR engine may apply a speech recognition algorithm to the audio file. The algorithm may convert the audio signals on the file to text. The IVR engine may send the contents of the text to the workflow engine for processing in the course of executing a workflow instance step.

In some implementations a specialized engine may interpret barcodes. For example using a digital camera on a mobile telephone a user may capture an image of a barcode for a product. The user may transmit the image to the system . The workflow engine may be expecting an image with a barcode due to the current step of the workflow instance. When the workflow engine receives the image the workflow engine may invoke a barcode engine and send the image to the barcode engine. In some implementations the barcode engine may process the image to identify a product. The barcode engine may transmit the identity of the product to the workflow engine .

In some implementations a specialized engine may process a payment. For example the workflow engine may receive instructions from a user to make or receive a payment. The instruction may include the amount for the payment. In some implementations the instruction may include the routing and account numbers for the user s bank account from which the payment amount should be debited. In some implementations the instruction may include a credit card number and expiration date to which the payment amount should be charged. In some implementations the payment engine may send payment information to a third party vendor to fulfill a transaction. In some implementations the payment engine may identify the financial institution associated with the bank account or credit card. The payment engine may communicate with the financial institution to process the payment.

In some implementations the workflow engine may halt execution of a workflow instance. The workflow engine may delete the workflow instance. The workflow engine may send a message indicating the workflow instance has been aborted to the external system that requested the workflow instance. In some implementations the workflow engine may abort a workflow in response to an instruction from an external system to do so.

In some implementations the workflow engine may create correlations between a workflow instance and an indicia of a communication channel associated with a user. The workflow engine may send information about the correlations to the session manager . In some implementations the workflow engine may use a specialized component such as a work item e.g. a pre defined structure of work which answers to a requirement of the workflow instance .

In some implementations the correlation engine may create correlations between workflow instances and indicia of communication channels for a user. In some implementations the correlation engine may correlate a workflow instance with an indicia by storing the identifier of the instance with the indicia in memory. For example the correlation engine may maintain a table of workflow instances. The correlation engine may create an entry in the table for an instance. The entry may be accessed by the instance s identifier. The correlation engine may populate fields in the entry with the indicia of communication channels in the user profile. In this manner each instance of a workflow may be associated with multiple indicia for a user.

In another example the correlation engine may store a table of indicia in memory. The correlation engine may search the table for the user s indicia. If the indicia is found in table the correlation engine may add the identifier of the workflow instance to the indicia s entry. If the indicia is not found in the table the correlation engine may create an entry for the indicia and store the workflow instance s identifier in association with the indicia. In this manner indicia may be associated with multiple workflow instances.

The correlation engine may receive a communication received from a user. Based on an indicia of a communication channel through which the communication was received the correlation engine may determine the workflow instance corresponding to the communication.

In operation the logging engine may create a log of events for the workflow instance. When the session manager receives the identifier of a workflow instance and the indicia e.g. information from the user profile for correlation the logging engine may log e.g. record a entry for a start time corresponding to the receipt of the instance s identifier. In some implementations the workflow engine sends the session manager the time the workflow instance was created. The logging engine may use the provided time as the time of the instance s creation.

In some implementations the logging engine may record entries regarding communications sent to users by the workflow engine and communications received from users. In some implementations the workflow engine may send to the session manager a copy of each communication to be sent to a user. The logging engine may log an entry for the workflow instance corresponding to the communication. In some implementations the entry may include the contents of the communication the communication channel used e.g. e mail SMS other channels described herein the indicia of the communication channel e.g. e mail address mobile telephone number other indicia described herein the time the instruction was sent and or any other information.

In some implementations the logging engine may log an entry corresponding to each communication received from the notification engine . The entry may include the time the communication was received the contents of the communication the type of the communication channel used e.g. e mail SMS the indicia of the communication channel e.g. e mail address mobile telephone number and or any other information.

In some implementations the logging engine may record an end time for the workflow instance. The workflow engine may send the session manager a message when the workflow instance has been completed. The message may include the instance s identifier the time of completion one or more results of the workflow instance and or any other information. The logging engine of the session manager may record an entry including any of the information in the message. In some implementations the workflow engine may send the session manager a message indicating that the workflow instance is being aborted. The logging engine of the session manager may record an entry including the instance s identifier the time the message was received an indication e.g. a flag that the instance was aborted and or any other information. In some implementations the entry may include the reason the instance was halted.

In some implementations the logging engine may store the log of the workflow instance. In some implementations the logging engine may store each entry as an entry is created. In some implementations the logging engine may store all entries for a workflow instance after the instance completes execution. Thus such storage enables future retrieval of the results and or events of the workflow instance. For example an external system may retrieve results from workflows that the system requested. In another example if one or more system components fail e.g. the server executing the workflow engine crashes the system may retrieve information about the workflow instance to resume execution once such components have been restored.

In some implementations the logging engine may send the entries of the log to the workflow engine or loader for storage in a workflow definition file store . In some implementations the logging engine may store the entries of the log in one or more memories on the system .

In some implementations the session manager may create and or invoke additional engines not shown . The processor s executing the session manager may access memory to retrieve instructions that when executed implement one or more administrative engines. In some implementations an administrative engine may manage system resources during execution of a workflow instance. For example the administrative engine may delete correlations between workflow instances and indicia of communication channels associated with users.

The administrative engine may receive an instruction to delete a correlation between a workflow instance and an indicia of a communication channel associated with a user e.g. a user s mobile phone number . In some implementations the administrative engine may receive the instruction if the workflow engine determines that a communication channel will not be used in remaining steps of the workflow instance. A correlation may be deleted by removing an indicia of a communication channel from an entry for the workflow instance in a table of workflow instances.

The administrative engine may receive an instruction to delete all correlations for a workflow instance. In some implementations the administrative engine may receive the instruction if the workflow engine has completed execution of the instance. Correlations for a completed workflow instance may be deleted by deleting the entry corresponding to the workflow instance from the table of workflow instances.

In some implementations the receive dispatch engine may receive a communication from a user. The receive dispatch engine may receive the communication from a receive queue of messages. In some implementations the receive dispatch engine may send the communication to the correlation engine of the session manager to determine the workflow instance corresponding to the communication. In some implementations the receive dispatch engine may send the communication to a workflow coordinator and the workflow coordinator may send the communication to the correlation engine . In some implementations the receive dispatch engine may include a Java class such as a Message Driven Bean.

As shown in an implementation of an exemplary cloud computing environment for subscription management in a multi channel context aware communication environment is shown and described. The cloud computing environment may include one or more resource providers collectively . Each resource provider may include computing resources. In some implementations computing resources may include any hardware and or software used to process data. For example computing resources may include hardware and or software capable of executing algorithms computer programs and or computer applications. In some implementations exemplary computing resources may include application servers and or databases with storage and retrieval capabilities. Each resource provider may be connected to any other resource provider in the cloud computing environment . In some implementations the resource providers may be connected over a computer network . Each resource provider may be connected to one or more computing device collectively over the computer network .

The cloud computing environment may include a resource manager . The resource manager may be connected to the resource providers and the computing devices over the computer network . In some implementations the resource manager may facilitate the provision of computing resources by one or more resource providers to one or more computing devices . The resource manager may receive a request for a computing resource from a particular computing device . The resource manager may identify one or more resource providers capable of providing the computing resource requested by the computing device . The resource manager may select a resource provider to provide the computing resource. The resource manager may facilitate a connection between the resource provider and a particular computing device . In some implementations the resource manager may establish a connection between a particular resource provider and a particular computing device . In some implementations the resource manager may redirect a particular computing device to a particular resource provider with the requested computing resource.

The computing device includes a processor a memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to the memory and multiple high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to a low speed expansion port and the storage device . Each of the processor the memory the storage device the high speed interface the high speed expansion ports and the low speed interface are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as a display coupled to the high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In some implementations the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In some implementations the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In some implementations the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. Instructions can be stored in an information carrier. The instructions when executed by one or more processing devices for example processor perform one or more methods such as those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage devices such as computer or machine readable mediums for example the memory the storage device or memory on the processor .

The high speed interface manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed interface manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is an example only. In some implementations the high speed interface is coupled to the memory the display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to the high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation the low speed interface is coupled to the storage device and the low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . Alternatively components from the computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as a mobile computing device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of the computing device and the mobile computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

The mobile computing device includes a processor a memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The mobile computing device may also be provided with a storage device such as a micro drive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the processor the memory the display the communication interface and the transceiver are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the mobile computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the mobile computing device such as control of user interfaces applications run by the mobile computing device and wireless communication by the mobile computing device .

The processor may communicate with a user through a control interface and a display interface coupled to the display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may provide communication with the processor so as to enable near area communication of the mobile computing device with other devices. The external interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the mobile computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. An expansion memory may also be provided and connected to the mobile computing device through an expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. The expansion memory may provide extra storage space for the mobile computing device or may also store applications or other information for the mobile computing device . Specifically the expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example the expansion memory may be provide as a security module for the mobile computing device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of the mobile computing device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory non volatile random access memory as discussed below. In some implementations instructions are stored in an information carrier. that the instructions when executed by one or more processing devices for example processor perform one or more methods such as those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage devices such as one or more computer or machine readable mediums for example the memory the expansion memory or memory on the processor . In some implementations the instructions can be received in a propagated signal for example over the transceiver or the external interface .

The mobile computing device may communicate wirelessly through the communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. The communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls Global System for Mobile communications SMS Short Message Service EMS Enhanced Messaging Service or MMS messaging Multimedia Messaging Service CDMA code division multiple access TDMA time division multiple access PDC Personal Digital Cellular WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA2000 or GPRS General Packet Radio Service among others. Such communication may occur for example through the transceiver using a radio frequency. In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth Wi Fi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition a GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to the mobile computing device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may also communicate audibly using an audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. The audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of the mobile computing device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In view of the structure functions and apparatus of the systems and methods described here in some implementations systems and methods for subscription management in a multi channel context aware communication environment are provided. Having described certain implementations of methods and apparatus for supporting subscription management in a multi channel context aware communication environment it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other implementations incorporating the concepts of the disclosure may be used. Therefore the disclosure should not be limited to certain implementations but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims.

