---

title: Monolithically integrated fiber optic coupler
abstract: An optical fiber coupler includes a clad optical fiber core having a coupling window formed therein. A laser source is joined to emit light into the core through the coupling window. The core has an output coupler for partially reflecting a portion of light and transmitting a portion as output. A Bragg grating is formed in the core having a pitch and being positioned to reflect light from said laser source toward the output coupler. The pitch is variable in response to a temperature change. A thermal control device is joined to the core for adjusting its temperature and the Bragg grating pitch. In other embodiments a mode convertor is provided to reduce the output modes to selected modes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849080&OS=08849080&RS=08849080
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08849080
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130114
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to waveguide large core fiber couplers and more specifically to monolithically integrated waveguide or large core fiber couplers for multi wavelength high power beam combining with increased brightness and or beam quality.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 490 388 discloses a side pumped laser including an optical fiber with a core and a cladding. The core has an index of refraction nand the cladding has an index of refraction n where n n. The fiber further includes a coupling window integrally formed within a channel formed in an upper side of the fiber cladding. The coupling window consists of an optical material having an index of refraction of n where n n. The fiber laser further includes a laser light source that is directed through the coupling window where laser light is directly coupled into the core of the fiber. The fiber of the laser also preferably includes Bragg gratings written into the core beneath the coupling window and a reflective material disposed in a second window formed beneath the Bragg gratings. The side pumped fiber laser is located at a distance from the fiber in order to direct light into the coupling window of the fiber. A need still exists to improve coupling efficiency of side pumped laser arrangements.

It is a first object of the present invention to provide a monolithically integrated waveguide fiber coupler having high coupling efficiency for side coupling laser light directly into the core of a monolithically integrated single or multimode clad waveguide fiber.

It is another object to provide a monolithically integrated waveguide fiber coupler that allows mode locking.

It is another object to provide a monolithically integrated waveguide fiber coupler that is wavelength tunable through temperature control.

It is another object to provide a monolithically integrated waveguide fiber coupler including tilted Bragg gratings to enhance and direct coupling of the light into the core of the waveguide fiber.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and claims in conjunction with the drawings.

Accordingly there is provided a simple and efficient means for side coupling laser light into the core of a monolithically integrated single or multimode clad waveguide fiber is realized using a waveguide fiber coupler which includes an optical waveguide fiber having a core and a cladding. The core has an index of refraction nand the cladding has an index of refraction n wherein nis greater than n. The waveguide fiber coupler further includes multi wavelength semi conductor lasers bars or chips integrally distributed along one side of the waveguide fiber cladding a coupling window integrally formed within a channel in the side of the waveguide fiber cladding tilted Bragg gratings written into the core beneath the bar chip lasers a reflective material mirror disposed in the terminal end of the waveguide fiber and an optical coupler such as a partially reflective mirror located at the output end of the waveguide fiber.

The tilted Bragg gratings reflect light propagating from the semiconductor lasers along an axis of the waveguide fiber toward the optical coupler. Below the tilted Bragg gratings are temperature control devices that are capable of modifying the pitch of the tilted Bragg gratings thereby changing their reflective properties at specific wavelengths to provide tunability. Light that is backscattered is reflected forward by the terminal end mirror. The optical coupler reflects light to the tilted Bragg gratings and then to the semiconductor lasers to lock the wavelength modes resulting in a constant Mvalue for the optical output.

As shown in the drawings a monolithically integrated waveguide or large core fiber coupler includes an optical waveguide fiber having a core and a cladding . The core has an index of refraction n and the cladding has an index of refraction n wherein nis greater than n. Coupler includes multi wavelength bar or chip lasers integrally distributed along an upper side of waveguide fiber cladding .

Also built within the coupler are one or more coupling windows . Windows can be integrally formed within a channel in one side of the waveguide fiber cladding . Coupling window is made from an optical material having an index of refraction nwhere nis greater than the index of refraction of the core n. The coupler also includes tilted Bragg gratings written into the core proximate the bar chip lasers .

Coupler includes a reflective material e.g. a mirror disposed in a terminal end of the coupler and an output coupler disposed at the output end of the coupler . Output coupler may likewise be composed of a highly reflective two dimensional photonic crystal structure a Bragg grating a partially reflective mirror or another partially reflective structure known in the art. Tilted Bragg gratings reflect the downward propagating light from the lasers along waveguide fiber toward the output coupler .

Below the tilted Bragg gratings are thermoelectric coolers TECs that can modify the pitch of the tilted Bragg gratings thereby changing their reflective properties at specific wavelengths to provide tunability. Heating or cooling by thermoelectric coolers causes expansion or contraction of fiber optic core resulting in an expansion or contraction of the pitch of the associated Bragg grating . This pitch change allows reflection of a different wavelength of light. While thermoelectric coolers are preferred devices can be any reversible cooling heating device that is sufficiently compact for the application. This can include fluid transfer heating cooling devices and other electrical devices. TECs are preferred because they allow rapid electrical control of temperature at the surface of fiber . Devices are joined to an appropriate controller for providing a fluid or voltage as required by the device.

In operation lasers provide laser light through windows . Bragg gratings reflect light along an axis of fiber core . Light that is backscattered in the waveguide fiber is reflected forward by the terminal mirror . Output coupler inside core provides feedback by reflecting light back toward the terminal end and Bragg gratings . Bragg gratings reflect the feedback light back to lasers . Impingement of feedback light locks the wavelength modes resulting in a constant Mvalue for the optical output. It is well known that wavelength modes of various orders define the shape of a beam and locking the mode refers to locking or tuning to a specific wavelength.

The monolithically integrated waveguide fiber coupler of provides a simple and efficient means for side coupling of laser light into the core of the single or multimode clad waveguide fiber . The coupler couples light received from the compact multi wavelength lasers directly into the single mode or multimode fiber . The tilted Bragg gratings in the fiber reflect the downward propagating light from the lasers along the axis of the waveguide fiber toward the output coupler . The output coupler then reflects light to lock or tune the wavelength modes to an optimum operational wavelength resulting in a constant Mvalue represented by a bell curve for the optical output waveguide fiber coupler .

A number N of monolithically integrated waveguide fiber couplers are shown in where each coupler outputs a wavelength to respectively and these wavelengths are tuned or locked by the respective output couplers inside the coupler to reflect light and lock the optimum operational wavelength modes resulting in a constant Mvalue for each optical output . Each output of the N couplers representing channels to N is provided to a fused fiber and thereafter output to the ferrule . Multiple output fibers are fused together into a single fused fiber and drawn into ferrule in order to provide an output as a photonic crystal fiber PCF or photonic bandgap PBG fiber . One possible way of performing this is given utilizing the technique described by S. Leon Saval et al. Splice free interfacing of photonic crystal fibers Optics Letters Vol. 30 Pages 1629 1631 2005 herein incorporated by reference for background information only. In this technique the fused output fibers are fed in a central void of the ferrule i.e. intermediate perform without the need for splicing and then drawn into the reduced diameter air silica photonic crystal fiber PCF or photonic band gap PBG fiber which is connected by a continuous transition of the fiber waveguide from the fused fibers to the PCF PCB fiber . This process involves adiabatic propagation rather than resonant coupling the former of which is associated with high extinction across a wide range of wavelengths with low losses.

The PCF PBG fiber includes metamaterials of superlattices formed by metal nanoparticles. The binary superlattices are formed by self assembly of metal e.g. Au PbSe nanoparticles of different origin and having a negative index of refraction. Metamaterials are deposited in the PCF or PBG fiber core to facilitate mode conversion. The modes exiting the tapered input fiber waveguide core become guided by the surrounding PCF PBG fiber core the scaling of which is designed for the single mode regime characterized by the V parameter V

In a PCF PBG fiber air holes permeating through the length of the waveguide fiber and or negative index metamaterials provide confinement and guidance of the light where the guidance mechanism depends on the nature of the air hole arrangement and the geometrical scaling and periodicity of the metamaterials for an air core PBG fiber a photonic bandgap and or metamaterial confines light rather than total internal reflection characteristic of conventional waveguide fibers. The metamaterial is comprised of binary superlattices formed by self assembly of metal nanoparticles of different origin and positioned at sub wavelength intervals to induce the negative index.

The multimode cutoff properties and modal behavior of PCFs can be understood by the concept of the V parameter. For PCFs V below which value the waveguide fiber is effectively single mode. The modes exiting the tapered input fiber waveguide core become guided by the surrounding PCF core the scaling of which is designed for the single mode regime V

Methods for mode conversion using PCFs are presented by K. Lai et al. Wavelength independent all fiber mode converters Vol. 32 Pages 328 330 2007 and the V parameter for PCFs is discussed in the article by M. Nielson et al. Modal cutoff and the V parameter in photonic crystal fibers Vol. 28 Pages 1879 1881 2003 both herein incorporated by reference for background information only.

A broadband photon trapping structure may be used to confine photons of selective wavelengths at the window where Bragg gratings located below the photon trapping structures reflect and channel light along the core. The photon trapping structures can be provided as a periodic array of pyramidal absorber or two dimensional photonic crystal structures within the core. The photon trapping structures confine a high percentage of the incident light without the need for antireflection AR coatings and provide sufficiently large bandwidths to support optical input covering a significant frequency range. The trapped light may then be reflected and channeled using multiple Bragg gratings located below the photon trapping structure.

Multiple Bragg gratings are formed in the core to reflect light passing through the photon trapping structure along the axis of the core . As in the pitch of Bragg gratings can be adjusted by raising or lowering the temperature of the Bragg grating and causing expansion or contraction of the optical fiber core . This is accomplished by use of thermoelectric coolers joined to a control circuit . Output coupler allows transmission of a portion of the light reflected along the axis of the core and reflects the remainder of the light back to Bragg gratings to serve as mode locking feedback.

Electromagnetic metamaterials integrated into or fabricated such as by laser writing in the waveguide fiber core may be utilized to effectively function as a mode converter to transform higher order modes into the fundamental mode. This may be accomplished by induced bending of light around the material characteristic of this class of metamaterials effectively filtering out higher order modes in the process. The range of wavelengths affected and thus the optical behavior the metamaterial may be tuned by modifying the scale and periodicity of the structural properties of the metamaterial.

A photonic crystal or metamaterial structure is provided in core . Photonic crystal structure is designed to provide a photonic band gap that will allow passage of a selected mode. Other modes will leak out of structure and not be transmitted. Typically the selected mode is the fundamental mode however structures allowing passage of other modes can be selected. Structure can be an array of columns oriented along axis and surrounded by a material having a lower or higher dielectric constant. Removal of a row of columns can be used to eliminate undesirable modes. Photonic crystal structure provides a single mode output .

The primary advantages and or innovative features of this invention over previous methods are the combinations of use of multiple coupling waveguides to transmit multiple wavelengths the use of bar or chip lasers residing directly on the fiber cladding use of TECs to effectively tune the Bragg gratings use of an output coupler to reflect light to feedback reflective waveguide to lock the modes resulting in a constant Mvalue for the optical output fusing of the coupling fibers together with index matching the ferrule technique for adiabatically coupling the fused fiber to a PCF PBG and combination of PCF PBG and nanoparticle based metamaterial core to convert higher order modes to the fundamental model at the output.

The lasers may be either bar or chip devices as long as they are compact enough to reside above the fiber cladding and perform the required functionality. The output waveguide may be either a photonic crystal fiber PCF or photonic bandgap PBG fiber. The nanoparticles forming the metamaterials may range from a number of materials including Au and PbSe.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

