---

title: Protection for multimedia files pre-downloaded to a mobile device
abstract: Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to methods and systems for pre-downloading at least a portion of a media event to a mobile device and the protection of the media content once it is downloaded to the device. Media content may be pre-downloaded to a mobile device before the official release of the media event and/or before a user has purchased the media event. The pre-downloaded media may be protected by one or more disruption to the presentation of the media content and/or by storing the pre-downloaded media in a trusted security zone of a mobile device. After the media event is released and purchased, the remaining media may be downloaded and a user may gain access to the full media content on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09443088&OS=09443088&RS=09443088
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09443088
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130415
---
Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example media files electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information. Confidential information may include multimedia content which may be communication and stored on various devices.

In an embodiment a method for pre downloading a portion of a media event to a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises predicting user preferences for purchasing a media event and pre downloading from a media provider a significant portion of the media event to a mobile device belonging to the user wherein at least a portion of the media event is embedded in an executable file the pre downloading is completed before the official release of the media event and the content of the media event comprises one or more disruption to make the content one of degraded or unusable.

In an embodiment a method for protecting a media event that is pre downloaded to a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises pre downloading a significant portion of a media event to a mobile device wherein the content of the media event is embedded in an executable file storing at least a portion of the executable file in a trusted security zone of the mobile device wherein the content of the media event comprises one or more disruption to make the content one of degraded or unusable downloading the remaining portion of the media content after a purchase decision by the user and the release date of the media event and downloading with the remaining portion of the media content one or more keys operable to remove the disruption of the pre downloaded media content and allow user access to the remaining portion of the media content stored in the trusted security zone wherein the keys are stored in the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment a method for protecting a media event and associated files that are pre downloaded to a mobile device is disclosed. The method comprises pre downloading a significant portion of a media event to a mobile device wherein the content of the media event is embedded in an executable file storing the executable file in a permissive sector of the mobile device wherein the content of the media event comprises one or more disruption to make the content one of degraded or unusable downloading the remaining portion of the media content after a purchase decision by the user and the release date of the media event and downloading with the remaining portion of the media content one or more keys operable to remove the disruption of the pre downloaded media content and allow access to the remaining portion of the media content wherein the keys are stored in the trusted security zone.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to methods and systems for pre downloading at least a portion of a media event to a mobile device and the protection of the media content once it is downloaded to the device. A media event may comprise a movie release a song release an album release a video or computer game release or other similar media releases wherein the media content associated with the media event may not be available to users until a certain official release date and in some cases the media event may be purchased before it can be accessed. It may be desired to pre download a portion of the content of a media event to a device before the release date of the media and or before a purchase decision is made by the user. The pre download especially to multiple devices may reduce traffic in the network at the time of the official release of the media event allowing downloads to occur more quickly and thereby improving the user experience of the media event. Pre downloading may comprise downloaded content to a device before the official release date of the media event and may also comprise downloading an incomplete version of the content associated with a media event.

In some cases pre downloading may occur based on predicted preferences of users. For example a user may create an account or may be registered with a media provider wherein the purchases and or searches completed by the user may be monitored to assess the preferences of the user. Additionally the user may input preference information to be stored with their account. A user may also associate a device with their account or registration wherein the capabilities of the device may be considered before a pre download occurs. For example the storage capacity or open storage of the device as well as capabilities of the media player s on the device may be evaluated.

The media content that is pre downloaded to a device may comprise an executable file format where the media content may be embedded in the executable file. An executable file may comprise executable instructions where these instructions must be executed for the media content to play. In some cases the executable instructions may employ one or more key to run and therefore allow access to the media content. In an embodiment at least some of the instructions in the executable file may be trusted execution that are configured to be executed in a trusted security zone and or in a trusted execution environment. Trusted security zone and trusted execution environment are constructs that are described further hereinafter.

Also the media content may in some cases comprise one or more disruption that makes the media content unusable or degraded in some way. This may prevent access to the media content before it has been released and or purchased. In some cases a user may be notified that the media has been pre downloaded to their device implying that if the media was purchased the user would have immediate access to at least a portion of the media event. Additionally the media pre downloaded to the device may comprise preview sections which may be accessed by the user before the official release of the media or the purchase of the media.

After the media is officially released and is purchased by a user the remaining media content may be downloaded to the device from a media provider. Additionally keys operable to allow access to the downloaded media may be downloaded as well. In some cases the keys may be communicated to the mobile device from a media trusted service manager TSM where the media TSM receives instructions to release the keys from a media provider. In some cases the keys and at least a portion of the downloaded media content may be stored in a trusted security zone on the device.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the communication system comprises a mobile device comprising a trusted security zone a permissive sector a cellular radio transceiver and an optional user interface . In an embodiment the trusted security zone comprises one or more secure applications . The permissive sector may comprise one or more device applications . The mobile device may engage in a variety of communication exchanges. The mobile device may comprise a variety of devices such as a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer and other electronic devices having a macro cellular radio transceiver. Some embodiments of the disclosure may also comprise stationary devices such as a home entertainment system or other similar devices operable to present multimedia content. Such stationary devices may be coupled to a network by either a wired communication link or a wireless communication link.

As described above the trusted security zone may be provided by a physically separate processor or by a virtual processor. The one or more secure applications may be any of a variety of applications that process and or transmit confidential information. The confidential information may comprise sensitive business documents such as electronic mail marketing literature business plans client lists addresses employee data intellectual property documents and the like. The confidential information may comprise personal medical records or medical data that are subject to privacy requirements enforced by government regulatory bodies or commercial standards. The confidential information may comprise financial information such as account numbers authentication identities account balance information and the like.

When processing and or transmitting the confidential information the secure application executes at least partially in the trusted security zone . It is a characteristic or feature of the trusted security zone as described more fully above that when a secure application executes in the trusted security zone untrusted applications are prevented from executing and or accessing trusted memory partitions and or accessing the display communication interfaces or input devices of the mobile device thereby reducing the opportunity for malware that may have infiltrated the mobile device to corrupt or to monitor the confidential information.

In an embodiment the system comprises a network . The network may be a private network a public network or a combination thereof. The network may promote voice communications and data communications. Portions of the network may provide an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network. The mobile device may couple to the network by a variety of communication paths. The mobile device may communicate with a base transceiver station BTS via a wireless link according to any of a variety of wireless communications protocols including but not limited to code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX global system for mobile communications GSM or other wireless communication protocol. The wireless link between the mobile device and the base transceiver station may couple the mobile device to the network .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be provided in a secure area of a processor and or memory chip shared with the permissive sector or in a separate processor and or memory chip. The trusted security zone may be provided as what may be conceptualized as invisible space. In an embodiment at least some of the memory addresses occupied by the trusted security zone may be inaccessible to device applications executing out of permissive sector . This demarcation of accessible memory addresses versus inaccessible memory addresses may be provided by the operating system of the mobile device . In an embodiment the trusted security zone may encapsulate a trusted execution environment TEE for example conforming at least partially to the Global Platform 2.0 or later revision trusted execution environment standard. It is understood however that the trusted security zone is contemplated to provide further functionality than that envisioned by the trusted execution environment standards.

In an embodiment a trust exchange service is provided in the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service may be conceptualized as bridging between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone . The trust exchange service promotes secure interactions between the applications executing in the permissive sector and applications executing in the trusted security zone . The security may be provided using one or more techniques. For example the trust exchange service may pause a plurality of execution threads when initiating an interaction with the trusted security zone for example while handling a request for service from a secure application . This feature may reduce the opportunity that other threads may sniff or otherwise seek to intrude on the operation. For example the trust exchange service may impose a criteria that all communication between the permissive sector and the trusted security zone be conducted using data that is transformed according to protocols of the trusted security zone for example using encryption and or using hashing. The trust exchange service may also hide address space in the trusted security zone and or make the address space inaccessible to the permissive sector without the mediation of the trust exchange service .

The device applications executed in the permissive sector may be any of a variety of applications. One of the device applications may be a telephone application that receives dialed digits and attempts to originate a voice call for example a voice over IP VoIP call to a called telephone. One of the device applications may be a web browser application that requests content from the network for example by sending out a hypertext transport protocol HTTP message embedding a universal reference locator URL . One of the device applications may be a media player that requests streaming media from the network . Many of the device applications may depend upon communication service provided by an IMS network to deliver their functionality to an end user of the mobile device . One of the device applications may comprise a mobile transaction interface where a user may complete a purchase using the application and secure information such as credit card information may be communicated through the application.

The user interface of the mobile device may in some embodiments comprise a display an input system a speaker system and or a microphone. In some embodiments the display may comprise a screen and the input system may comprise a keypad and or a touch screen for example. The speaker system may communicate audio such as media messages or phone call audio to a user of the mobile device . The microphone may receive voice and or audio from a user and or communicate audio to a user. In an embodiment a user may utilize the user interface to communicate with the mobile device for example to initiate the execution of a device application and or a secure application . Additionally a user may receive communication from the mobile device via the user interface such as phone calls text messages messages emails contact information caller identification call history internet access etc. A user may additionally employ the user interface for viewing and or listening to media such as music movies shows videos photos games etc.

In an embodiment the mobile device may be operable to store and present one or more media events wherein the media event s may be downloaded to the mobile device from one or more media provider and or may be streamed from a media provider . Additionally the mobile device may comprise a media player operable to present multimedia content of a media event such as video audio movies shows music games or graphics. As shown in the media player may in some embodiments be executed in the permissive sector of the mobile device . Alternatively the media player may also be executed in the trusted security zone of the mobile device shown with a dashed outline .

In some embodiments as described above media events may be pre downloaded to a mobile device before the release date of the event and or before a purchase decision is made by the user of the mobile device . For example pre downloaded media may be downloaded to the mobile device via the wireless connection through the network . In an embodiment the pre downloaded media may comprise a significant portion of the media content associated with a media event. In an embodiment the pre downloaded media may comprise at least about 50 of the total media content associated with a media event. In an embodiment the pre downloaded media may comprise at least about 75 of the total media content associated with a media event. In an embodiment the pre downloaded media may comprise at least about 90 of the total media content associated with a media event. In another embodiment the pre downloaded media may comprise some other fraction of the total media content. Additionally the pre downloaded media may in some embodiments comprise the entire content associated with a media event.

In some embodiments the pre downloaded media may be degraded or unusable in the form in which it is downloaded to the mobile device wherein after a purchase decision is made by a user and the media event is released the remaining media may be downloaded to the mobile device . It may be desired to pre download at least a portion of the content associated with a media event to a mobile device to avoid an overload of the network due to a high number of users attempting to download the media event at the release of the media event wherein a significant portion of the content of the media event may be downloaded to one or more mobile devices before the release date and may be downloaded to the device s at non peak times in the network traffic or when the network is quiet the device is idle and or the device is charging.

In an embodiment pre downloaded media may comprise an executable file format wherein the media content may be embedded in the executable file. An executable file may comprise executable instructions wherein these instructions must be executed for the media content to play. The executable file may comprise an application programming interface API operable to seek out a media player when executed. The executable file may employ a key to perform certain operations wherein different keys may initiate different operations of the executable file. In some embodiments the user may be notified of the pre download and the opportunity for quicker access to the media content when the media is purchased and officially released. The keys may in some embodiments be provided after a purchase decision has been made.

In an embodiment users may be identified to receive pre downloaded media based on a prediction of the preferences of the users. A user may be registered with a media provider or may have an account or profile with one or more media providers . Media providers may include movie studios music studios video game companies electronic commerce companies and or other digital media vendors. Media providers may include companies such as 20th Century Fox RKO Pictures Paramount Pictures Warner Bros. Metro Goldwyn Mayer Universal Pictures Columbia Pictures United Artists iTunes Amazon.com Rhapsody Universal Music Group Sony Music Entertainment Warner Music Group Xbox LIVE Netflix Hulu and other similar companies.

Predicting preferences for users with profiles or accounts may be accomplished based on previous purchases and or searches performed by the users. For example if a user purchased a movie it may be predicted that they would purchase the sequel to that movie and or movies in the same genre or starring the same actors. Additionally a user may be given an option to input preferences which may be stored with their account or profile and accessed by the media providers . In some embodiments a user may be given the option to pre order media content from a media provider wherein the pre ordered media may then be pre downloaded onto a mobile device associated with the user as described above. In some embodiments a user may associate a mobile device with their account or profile wherein it may be determined by a media provider if the mobile device is capable of supporting the media to be pre downloaded. For example a media provider may consider the amount of available storage or memory on the device and or the type of media player s available on the device .

In some embodiments the pre downloaded media may comprise one or more disruptions operable to make the pre downloaded media unusable or otherwise inhibit and or degrade the user experience if the pre downloaded media is accessed without permission which may be provided with a key for example. Disruptions of the pre downloaded media may comprise passive disruptions such as missing video missing audio partial or total and or missing pixels for example wherein the disruption is not added to the media content such as a scramble or overlay but comprises missing sections of the media content. For example video content of the pre downloaded media may comprise missing sections such as ten seconds of every minute or another comparable percentage or portion wherein the missing sections may in some embodiments be spread out over the length of the video content. In another embodiment the video content of the pre downloaded media may comprise missing and or mixed pixels wherein for example a set of pixels may be removed from the initial frames of the video content and then pixels from subsequent frames may be shifted into the openings such that a mixture may occur and obscure the viewing of the frames of video. Also the pre downloaded media may comprise missing sections of audio content such as ten seconds of every minute as an example wherein the audio may present as jumpy halting or otherwise impaired and wherein the missing sections may be spread out over the length of the audio content. As another example large sections of audio and or the entire audio content may be missing or removed from the pre downloaded media . Other similar disruptions may be contemplated wherein a disruption may comprise any impairment to the presentation of the media content.

Alternatively the pre downloaded media may comprise an active disruption which may be implemented by the executable file operable to distort or impair the media content in some way. For example in the absence of a key the executable file may be configured to distort or impair the pre downloaded media as it plays back and or as it present the content. In some embodiments disruptions may provide protection for the pre downloaded media without the presence or use of a trusted security zone and or keys .

As discussed above different keys may be downloaded to the mobile device wherein the keys may initiate or allow for different operations of the executable file. For example in some embodiments the pre downloaded media in the form of an executable file may contain one or more preview operations which may comprise trailers previews and or a first section of the media event in completion such that a user may access by viewing listening playing etc. the opening or initial portion of the media event while the remainder of the media event is downloading. Additionally a user may view one or more trailers or preview sections before a purchase has been made or download has started. To allow access to preview sections or initial sections of the pre downloaded media a preview key may be downloaded along with the pre downloaded media wherein the preview key may be used by the executable file to allow access to certain sections or portions of the pre downloaded media . Additionally the preview key may comprise one or more use limitations such as number of uses or expiration date for example . Alternatively the preview operations may be accessed without a key wherein protection of the complete file may be provided by the disruptions and or executable file structure of the pre downloaded media while allowing access to some complete sections of the media content for preview.

In some embodiments once the media event has officially been released and a purchase decision has been made by the user one or more keys may be downloaded to the mobile device wherein the keys may allow access to the full media content. Additionally any remaining media content not included in the pre downloaded media may be downloaded to the mobile device . In some embodiments the key s may remove or turn off the disruption of the pre downloaded media . Additionally the remaining media may fill in the missing sections of the pre downloaded media . In some embodiments a key may be required to stitch the pre downloaded media and the remaining media together into a usable media event. Alternatively the executable file format may be operable to fit the remaining media to the pre downloaded media while in some embodiments a combination of a key and the executable file may be used. In some embodiments the pre downloaded media and the remaining media may be recompiled into one executable file while in other embodiments they may be stored as separate files.

In an embodiment the pre downloaded media media player and remaining media may be stored in the permissive sector the trusted security zone or a combination of both. Any combination of storing the pre downloaded media media player and remaining media is contemplated wherein they may be stored completely in the permissive sector completely in the trusted security zone or partly in both the permissive sector and the trusted security zone . Also the pre downloaded media media player and remaining media are not dependent on each other for storage location one may be stored in full or in part in the permissive sector while another is stored in full or in part in the trusted security zone . While the pre downloaded media media player and remaining media may be stored in the permissive sector of the mobile device they are shown as optionally stored in the trusted security zone by a dashed outline. Additionally interaction between the pre downloaded media media player and remaining media may occur in the permissive sector and or the trusted security zone .

In an embodiment the keys may be stored in the trusted security zone of the mobile device . Additionally guarantee or assurance that the keys have been stored in the trusted security zone may be provided back to the media providers after the keys are downloaded to the mobile device . In an embodiment a guarantee or assurance may be provided by one or more media trusted service manager TSM wherein the media TSM may unlock the key to allow for use of the media content of the pre downloaded media and or the remaining media . The media provider s may communicate with the media TSM to release the key and may receive notification that the key has been stored in a trusted security zone . This may allow the media provider s to have control over the activation of the media downloaded to the mobile device . Additionally guarantee or assurance may be provided to the media provider s after the pre download of the media content that the pre downloaded media is unusable and or protected by the trusted security zone .

Turning now to a method for pre downloading at least a portion of a media event is described. At block the method comprises predicting user preferences for purchasing a media event. Predicting may be based on one or more of the following previous purchases or searches made by the user if the user is registered or has an account with the provider of the media content preferences input by the user and associated with the account of the user and or the capabilities of the mobile device of the user to support the media event. At block the method comprises pre downloading from a media provider a significant portion of the media event to a mobile device belonging to the user. Additionally the content of the media event may be embedded in an executable file the pre downloading may be completed before the official release of the media event and the content of the media event may comprise one or more disruption to make the content unusable and or degraded. At block the method comprises after a purchase is made by the user or after the media is officially released downloading the remaining portion of the media event to the mobile device and removing the disruption such that the full content of the media event becomes available to the user.

Turning now to a method for protecting a media event that is pre downloaded to a mobile device is described. At block the method comprises pre downloading from one or more media provider a significant portion of a media event to a mobile device wherein at least a portion of the content of the media event is embedded in an executable file. At block the method comprises storing at least a portion of the executable file in either a trusted security zone or a permissive sector of the mobile device wherein the content of the media event comprises one or more disruption to make the content degraded or unusable. At block the method comprises downloading the remaining portion of the media content after a purchase decision by the user and the release date of the media event. At block the method comprises downloading with the remaining portion of the media content one or more keys operable to remove the disruption of the pre downloaded media content and allow access to the media content stored in the trusted security zone wherein the keys are stored in the trusted security zone.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

