---

title: Method of reducing mud in an animal stable, pen, paddock, or arena
abstract: A system for and method of remediating existing mud and reducing future mud in an animal stable, pen, paddock, or arena through the use of geocells filled with aggregate matter. A new surface is formed through the placing of a layer of networked geocells filled with compacted aggregate matter on top of the existing stable, pen, paddock or arena ground soil. A geotextile barrier may be placed below the layer of networked geocells. An optional aggregate layer may also be added on top of the aggregate-filled geocells. The geocells distribute loads (weight from the animals) across the soil, preventing soil displacement and mud formation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09103087&OS=09103087&RS=09103087
owner: Lightfoot Geo Solutions LLC
number: 09103087
owner_city: Monroe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present invention relates generally to a method of remediating and preventing mud in an animal stable pen paddock or arena through the use of geocells filled with aggregate matter. The geocells distribute loads applied to soil by hooves over larger surface areas preventing soil displacement and subsequent mud formation.

Horse and other animal farms often have problems preventing and managing mud formation in areas where the animals walk on soil. The presence of heavy animal traffic rainfall and manure on farms often coalesce into mud and remain so for all but the driest months of the year. Mud presence on farms poses a threat to the health of animals in several ways mud is a vector for bacterial growth hooves that stay wet for long periods of time can soften and rot causing immobility and pain prolonged mud to skin contact can irritate skin and cause rashes open sores and infections and animals may slip or misstep in mud increasing the risk of injuries.

Referring to prior art mud is created when animals traverse across wet soil and manure repeatedly. Mud is the result of displacement of saturated unstable soil from the pressure of an animal s hoof downward on a ground surface. The soil is displaced laterally creating instability and causing deep mud in situations where a soil s water holding capacity creates an environment of moisture and instability. discloses a typical animal paddock where there is a build up of wet soil on ground . When a hooved animal such as a horse applies its weight to the wet soil through its hooves a downward force is applied from the hoof as illustrated in . The downward force as the animal s hoof steps down onto the wet soil displaces the wet soil and makes the top 1 6 surface of the soil broken and uneven. Not only is the animal horse working harder to move about but the pressure and displacement of the wet soil effectively destabilizes the ground and results in the formation of mud. Lateral soil displacement resulting from the downward force applied by a hoof shod or unshod attached to the base of the animal s hoof is illustrated schematically in . This process is sped up by more movement bad weather and more animals per area. The repeated displacement of the soil kills plants and roots and also mixes in water and organic matter such as manure. Higher organic content in the soil increases the water holding capacity. These actions result in the creation and persistence of mud on animal farms. Within a matter of days one active horse can turn a 24 ft by 40 ft typical paddock with wet soil into 3 6 inches of deep mud in high traffic areas.

The presence of mud also makes working on the farm difficult and can result in difficulties removing manure struck tractors and other equipment and reduced access to sections of the farm.

The present invention is directed to an improved surface for and a method of remediating existing mud and preventing future mud in the areas where animals are kept exercised and allowed to move such as stables pens paddocks and arenas. The method includes the creating of a new surface made from networked aggregate filled geocells which are oftentimes used to stabilize various terrains. The new method and surface distribute weight of the animals relative to the new surface and stabilizes the ground by limiting the displacement of aggregate to within the individual geocells. Applying geocells in animal areas provides long term mud prevention by preventing the mixing action of the hooves in wet soil.

According to one aspect of the invention a geotextile barrier such as a fabric is placed on top of the existing soil of the stable pend paddock or arena. A layer of networked geocells may be placed on top of the geotextile barrier. The networked geocell layer consists of connected individual geocells having a sidewall or cell wall defining an opening for example that is generally almond shaped. The geocell openings are filled with inorganic aggregate material such as gravel or crushed rock and are compacted within the networked geocell layer.

The networked geocell layer applied on top of the geotextile barrier separates the aggregate from the underlying soil preventing upward propagation of mud or mixing of aggregate into the mud.

A layer of aggregate is placed atop of the filled and compacted networked geocell structure to create a firm upper surface. The aggregate surface on top of the cells creates an ideal surface for removing manure. Promoting good manure removal practices further reduces the chance of mud formation.

The firm surface provided by the geocells and the aggregate layer prevents mud related injuries and health conditions on farms.

Optional perforations may be added to the geocell cell walls to promote drainage and prevent surface pooling which prevent mud formation on top of the cells.

Another benefit is that the new firm surface of the animal area e.g. paddock is much easier to maintain and keep clean.

These and other advantages will become more apparent upon review of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

The present invention is directed to a new surface for and method to prevent mud in animal stables pens paddocks and arenas through the use of geocells. Referring to a new surface is Created of networked and aggregate filled geocells . The new surface is placed on top of soil of the ground where animals such as horses and other farm animals are kept and exercised.

Geocells are known for their application for earth stabilization for retaining walls and the like. Geocells are a network of flexible individual geocells where each geocell defines an opening. According to one aspect of the present surface and method the networked geocells are generally almond shaped having two end points and mid section points that are adhered e.g. welded to adjacent geocells at respective end points and mid section points. However other geocell shapes are envisioned. Each geocell has a cell wall or sidewall that defines opening . The overall geocell network recalls a flexible honeycomb structure defining an upper surface and a lower surface. Geocell cell walls are approximately 3 to 8 inches in height and having a cell width of approximately 5 10 inches. Geocells are generally made from a man made material e.g. plastic and can be obtained from manufacturers such as those manufactured by Geo Products L.L.C. of Houston Tex. under the ENVIROGRID trademark or Presto Geosystems of Appleton Wis. sold under the PRESTO GEOSYSTEMS brand.

The surface and method of the present invention may include a geotextile barrier that is placed on top of the existing soil in the animal stable pen paddock or arena. The geotextile barrier may be a non woven geotextile e.g. a fabric that may be like that obtained from U.S. Fabrics and sold under the product name trademark COW CARPET.

A geocell layer as described above is then placed atop of the geotextile barrier . The openings of the individual geocells are filled with an angular aggregate material such as gravel or crushed rock which is then compacted into the geocells through any traditional compacting method e.g. plate compactor or tractor . An optional additional layer of aggregate may be added on top of the upper surface of the geocell layer. The top layer of aggregate can be in the range of to 4 inches.

The geocell and aggregate construct distribute loads applied to the surface across a larger surface area rather than the point of ground contact as illustrated in . An animal hoof applies a high pressure to the surface due to its relatively small surface area. The aggregate filled geocells limit the displacement of inorganic material which is also prevented from eroding or migrating by the limiting action of the geocells. The aggregate filled geocells further limit mixing with any mud below the geocells by means of the geotextile barrier. The geocell construct translates this load to the ground over a larger surface area. Because the aggregate inorganic layer on the surface is supported by the cell walls of the geocell structure the inorganic layer does not become unstable and provides a solid surface for the animal horse to move or stand on effectively controlling the distribution of weight and pressure of the animal s onto the surface . This controlling of distribution of weight and pressure prevents the hooves from punching into wet soil and the mixing action that causes mud.

The lateral forces in the cells caused by the hoof are counteracted by opposing forces applied by the cell walls. This action limits displacement and prevents mixing action in the gravel which prevents mud and retains the compacted aggregate in the cells.

Optional spaced apart openings may be added to geocell sidewall as illustrated. The openings allow water or moisture to escape laterally as well as through the normal vertical drainage to help prevent pooling on the upper aggregate surface.

The illustrated embodiments are only examples of the present invention and therefore are non limitive. It is to be understood that many changes in the particular structure materials and features of the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore it is the Applicant s intention that his patent rights not be limited by the particular embodiments illustrated and described herein but rather by the following claims interpreted according to accepted doctrines of claim interpretation including the Doctrine of Equivalents and Reversal of Parts.

