---

title: Platform-independent method and system for electronically engaging customers
abstract: Techniques for electronically engaging customers across all different platforms are disclosed. Based on unique device identifiers captured together with interactions by users with one or more applications provided by a business, a message prepared in a first format is automatically converted to a corresponding message in a second format according to what the devices the user have been interacting with can support. Depending on implementation, the message may be a response by the business to an inquiry from a user or a promotion by the business to be distributed to a group of selected users maintained by the business. The interactions include activities a user has had with one or more of the applications provided by the business and provide the statistical or actual data for the business to determine the group of users to receive the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106600&OS=09106600&RS=09106600
owner: 
number: 09106600
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130306
---
The present invention is related to the area of computer facilitated communications over networks and more particularly related to method and system for electronically engaging customers for multiple business entities. In one aspect the present invention is a customer operations platform CustomerOps platform that captures various activities a registered or unregistered user has interacted with a designated computer application e.g. a website with webpages a desktop program or a mobile app and assists the business of the designated application in engaging a targeted subset of users whenever there is a need. Such a CustomerOps platform also facilitates efficient and more relevant human or automated assistance when the user desires to get engaged with the business that operates the designated application.

The Internet is a data communication network of interconnected computers and computer networks around the world and has been rapidly evolving to the point where it combines elements of telecommunications computing broadcasting publishing commerce and information services into a revolutionary new business infrastructure. The economy on the Internet is growing in every aspect of life from buying small items e.g. stationary to big items e.g. vehicles and houses to trading stocks and ordering services all via the Internet.

Many traditional businesses such as local restaurants and clinics are now all operating online hoping to grow their businesses by attracting more people to their businesses. Some businesses operate not only in a locale but also is expanding virtually everywhere in the world via the Internet. For a business to increase its profitability gain its market share deliver what its customers want and retain repeated customers an efficient way to facilitate engagement with customers based on known data and attributes about the customer is vital to the business. Such a practice targeted at customers is referred to herein as customer operations a.k.a. CustomerOps .

Businesses small or large need CustomerOps. The success of CustomerOps is not limited to how a customer in electronic commerce is served when there is a need. A CustomerOps platform in a broad sense is the use of computer networks to improve organizational performance of a business. It involves all aspects of electronic interactions of an organization with its customers the people who determine the future of the organization. In brief A CustomerOps platform involves the use of information technology to engage enhance communications and transactions with all of its users regardless of whether or not the users are registered or unregistered.

A CustomerOps platform is difficult to design and costly to operate. Big companies have the resources to engage a special team to design special software to support their own version of CustomerOps but such specialized CustomerOps solutions are not transferable. That means no other business can reuse the development effort. A small business in reality would not have the resources to develop a specially designed platform to support their customers. They are often handicapped in customer engagement when competing with their larger competitors on the Internet.

Accordingly there is a need for a customer engagement platform that can be used by a business small or large alike to support its own CustomerOps. Different businesses shall have different types of CustomerOps. Thus there is still another need for a customer engagement platform that is generic enough to support many forms of electronic commerce. Depending on the type of electronic commerce ways to communicate with customers are different. Thus there is still another need for a customer support platform that is generic enough to support different ways of communication with the customers. These various communication mediums are referred to herein as channels.

Email is a popular communication tool users often use to communicate with a business. For example a user may want to buy a volume for an interesting item and decide to send an email message to a seller i.e. a website thereof inquiring a volume discount. Should collected interaction data indicate that the user has been looking up the item extensively a decision to offer a discount for a volume order would be justified to quickly close the transaction.

Social networks such as Facebook www.facebook.com and Twitter www.twitter.com are becoming prevalent platforms for many businesses to expand their presence among new or their existing users. A traditional CustomerOps solution to support a business would lose its advantages when dealing with the social network data and communications where the medium for user engagement is no longer controlled by the business. Thus there is still another need for a mechanism that is capable of capturing possible interactions of users with a business page account on a social network. In addition businesses now often have many non web application based presences. These include applications for mobile or other hardware devices. Along with more traditional mediums like SMS and voice businesses have a myriad of channels that they need to juggle. The need for a CustomerOps solution that enables a business to gather and correlate user data amongst all possible touch points and re engage users at the right channel is a major pain point for many businesses.

This section is for the purpose of summarizing some aspects of the present invention and to briefly introduce some preferred embodiments. Simplifications or omissions may be made to avoid obscuring the purpose of the section. Such simplifications or omissions are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

In general the present invention provides a method and system for electronically engaging customers for multiple business entities. According to one aspect the present invention is a supporting server or CustomerOps platform that provides customer operations to a plurality of computer applications e.g. websites with webpages desktop programs and mobile apps operated by respective businesses large or small. Various activities by a registered or unregistered user interacting with the computer applications are captured and the data stream is transported to a designated server. The stored data can be retrieved to assist the business of the designated computer application e.g. website to engage the user selectively whenever there is a need. Such a CustomerOps platform facilitates efficient and more relevant human or automated assistance when the user interacts with the business that provides the designated computer application e.g. website .

According to another aspect of the present invention a supporting server is configured to support multiple businesses operating in wide ranges of businesses and allows a business to send in a set of annotated data or inquiry relevant to the customers and specific to individual businesses. Depending on the area in which the business operates the annotated data may include information related to subscribed services successful transactions expressed interests or demanded information for some or all of the users who have been interacting with the business. The supporting server requires no specified data structure or schema in the annotated data from any of the businesses being supported and each such business is free to alter the annotated data format at any time. One embodiment of the supporting server as a CustomerOps platform allows the annotated data in plain language and facilitates data processing of the stored data streams in accordance with the annotated data. The supporting server stores and indexes all of the annotated data for later retrieval wherein retrieval queries data retrieval query may contain arbitrary attributes and values matching specific data provided in the data stream for the purpose of selecting a group of users.

According to still another aspect of the present invention one or more webpages in a website for online commerce are embedded with a module. The module is activated when a user comes to visit the website. The module is designed to capture selected activities by the user interacting with the website annotated with data provided by the business to generate a data stream. The data stream resulting from the selected activities is transported to a designated device for storage or access at another time.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the supporting server is configured to access email messages relating to the business. The email messages are parsed and contextual information about the user is extracted to structured data for storage. The data is matched with any supplied email identifiers from the annotated data sent by the business to construct a message history for the user that is conjoined with the associated data streams about that user.

Similarly the supporting server may be configured to access data available on another second server e.g. a social network website to obtain communication messages sent by users of the second server. Messages are parsed and contextual information about the user is extracted to structured data for storage. The data is matched with any supplied secondary identifiers from the annotated data sent by the business to construct a message history for the user that is conjoined with the associated data streams about that user.

According to still another aspect of the present invention an application is provided by a business to be executed on a mobile device. The application is designed to be embedded with a module. The module can be sent annotated data by the embedding application which it transports to a designated server. Also when the application is accessed the user the module is activated to monitor how a user is interacting with the application. Various activities by the user with the application being executed on a mobile device are captured and transported to the designated server where the data from the application may be associated with or added into stored data archived under an identifier of the user who has interacted with the business through its website or the application before. Also the unique identifier of the user for the purposes of sending asynchronous notifications relevant to the platform of the mobile device is transported to the designed server.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the stored customer data can be retrieved for view by operators of a business subscribing to the customer operations provided by the supporting server or CustomerOps platform. The stored data may be filtered by matching specific attributes and values provided in the data stream.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the CustomerOps platform is configured to allow an operator of a business being hosted to create one or more outbound messages for a group of users. A message may be created based on the prior activities of the group of users interacting with a designated application while the group of users is determined by the resulting set of a data retrieval query.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the CustomerOps platform is configured to allow an operator of a business being hosted to create one or more outbound messages to a specific channel.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the retrieved data can be processed to form necessary texts in responding to email questions from an automated assistant and preparing a response in voice. The necessary texts are a representation of aggregated information from the stored data streams.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention the CustomerOps platform may be installed to host one business although it is designed to host customer operations for multiple businesses at the same time. By utilizing the capability in one embodiment of the CustomerOps platform to pull data from different sources a business does not have to develop its own version of customer operations resulting in significant saving in operating such a platform to engage its users having various activities with the different sources.

The present invention may be implemented in software or in a combination of software and hardware and practiced as a system a process or a method. According to one embodiment the present invention is a method for providing customer engagement operations to a plurality of websites the method comprises receiving a data stream in a server from one of the websites when the one of the websites is accessed by a user wherein at least one webpage in the one of the websites is embedded with a module that is activated to track activities by the user interacting with the one of the websites archiving in a data store the data stream per an identifier of the user in reference with the one of the websites retrieving the data stream per the identifier when there is a request from a business operating the one of the websites wherein the request includes at least the identifier filtering the data stream per the request and reconstructing filtered data from the data stream.

According to one embodiment the present invention is a method for providing customer engagement operations to a plurality of computer applications the method comprises receiving a data stream in a server from one of the computer applications when the one of the computer applications is accessed by a user wherein at least one application interface in the one of the computer applications is embedded with a module that is activated to track activities by the user interacting with the one of the computer applications receiving a data stream in a server from one of the computer applications when the one of the computer applications is accessed by a user wherein at least one application interface in the one of the computer applications is embedded with a module that is activated to track activities by the user interacting with the one of the computer applications archiving in a data store the data stream per an identifier of the user in reference with the one of the computer applications retrieving the data stream per the identifier when there is a request from a business entity providing the one of the computer applications wherein the request includes annotated data from the business entity filtering the data stream per the request the filtered data representing statistic measurement of the activities and reconstructing filtered data from the data stream to show how the user has interacted with the one of the computer applications in a session.

According to another one embodiment the present invention is method for providing platform independent customer engagement the method comprises determining a group of users to receive a message the message including data portions in text and multimedia prepared in a first format retrieving at least some data capturing interactions by the users with a plurality of applications provided by a business entity deriving from the data a communication channel for each of the users converting the message per the communication channel to a second format supported by one of the applications used by the each of the users when the first format is not fully supported in the one of the applications and delivering the message converted or not from a server via the communication channel to the one of the applications.

Subject to a business arrangement between the business and the company operating the server the reconstructing of the filtered data from the data stream may be performed differently. For example in one case the statistic measurement of the activities is represented as an aggregated data portion to be inserted in a response to the user. In another case the filtered data is a report to the business. Further the server is configured to allow the business to communicate with one or more selected users via a selected communication channel e.g. email messaging social network audio or video .

According to yet another embodiment the present invention is a server for providing customer engagement operations to a plurality of computer applications the server comprises a network interface to couple the server to a data network and a storage device a processor a memory space coupled to the processor for storing code wherein the code is executed by the processor to perform operations of receiving a data stream in the storage device from one of the computer applications when the one of the computer applications is accessed by a user wherein at least one application interface in the one of the computer applications is embedded with a module that is activated to track activities by the user interacting with the one of the computer applications archiving in a data store the data stream per an identifier of the user in reference with the one of the computer applications retrieving the data stream per the identifier when there is a request from a business entity providing the one of the computer applications wherein the request includes annotated data from the business entity filtering the data stream per the request the filtered data representing statistic measurement of the activities and reconstructing filtered data from the data stream to show how the user has interacted with the one of the computer applications in a session.

Depending on implementation the server may be a single designated computing machine or a representation of a cluster of computing devices. The server may be operated by a company engaged in supporting the CustomerOps of multiple businesses or deployed to support the CustomerOps of a single business. The server may be further configured to return various filtered data or reports to the subscribing businesses for their communications with their own users or communicate directly with their respective users on demand from the subscribing businesses.

One of the objects features and advantages of the present invention is to provide techniques for supporting a plurality of computer applications to engage their respective users interacting with the applications. Another one of the objects features and advantages of the present invention is to provide filtered data to allow a business to communicate with its users more objectively.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon examining the following detailed description of an embodiment thereof taken in conjunction with the attached drawings.

The present invention pertains to a CustomerOps platform that is designed to collect data related to various activities a registered or unregistered user has interacted with a computer application for example a designated website or a website related to the designated website and assist the business of the computer application for example the designated website to engage the user selectively whenever there is a need. The CustomerOps platform contemplated in the present invention facilitates an entity or a business to support businesses small or large for engaging their respective users e.g. customers . By using one embodiment of the CustomerOps platform an online business does not have to develop its own version of customer operations to engage its users. There is no or little internal support needed to use such a platform. All interactions between a user and a website as well as between a user and a human operator related to the website are retained within the platform.

The detailed description of the present invention is presented largely in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing or other symbolic representations that directly or indirectly resemble the operations of data processing devices. These descriptions and representations are typically used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will become obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present invention.

Reference herein to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like parts throughout the several views. shows a basic system configuration in which the present invention may be practiced in accordance with one embodiment thereof. There are many computing machines executing applications operated by business entities to provide specific functions that involve customer interaction shown as three exemplary devices and . For example a clothing online store allows a prospective customer to navigate its website to see all latest styles in a particular category choose proper sizes and colors and ask questions before an order is probably placed via the website or the clothing online store directly.

In general customers are one set of users as far as an application is concerned. Depending on the functions of the application users may have different needs to interact with the application. For example when a user goes on shopping on a website the user is often referred to as a customer. As another example when a user reads books on an e reader application such a user is often referred to as a reader. Without implied limitations customers or users will be used interchangeably herein as the description herein is largely based upon the application specific to a business. Those skilled in the art shall appreciate the description herein is equally applicable to other types of applications. The term website or websites referenced herein serve as example type of application.

The servers and are all coupled to a data network e.g. the Internet a wired or wireless network or a combination of wired and wireless networks .

As will be further detailed below the server may also be configured to access data available on other servers such as an external social network. In one embodiment the profile of the user in the social network may also be captured to facilitate the business entity to engage with the user in a contextual way.

The main memory such as random access memory RAM is also interfaced to the data bus to provide the CPU with the instructions and access to memory storage for data and other instructions applications or services. In particular when executing stored application program instructions such as the complied and linked version of the present invention the CPU is caused to manipulate the data to achieve results contemplated by the present invention. The ROM read only memory is provided for storing invariant instruction sequences such as a basic input output operation system BIOS for operation of the display and the input device if there is any. In general the machine is coupled to a network and configured to provide one or more resources to be shared with or executed by another system on the network or simply as an interface to receive data and instructions from a human being.

According to one embodiment a server module is loaded and executed in a machine e.g. the server of to manage various communications with the business servers and facilitate a business server e.g. the server of to capture various activities by a user with the application thereof provided the business entity operating the website or the business server has subscribed to the CustomerOps services provided by the supporting or CustomerOps server i.e. the server of . From a business perspective a business entity e.g. a CustomerOps hosting company operating the CustomerOps server is a separate company specialized in hosting customer operations to a large number of applications being operated respectively by different business entities. As will be further appreciated below there are no inherent limitations on the nature of the applications whether an application is a website or mobile application.

According to one embodiment one or more executable sections of an application e.g. webpages in a website subscribing to the CustomerOps services by the CustomerOps server of are embedded with one or more executable modules interfaces links or code blocks hidden or visible collectively referred to as a module herein. In one embodiment such a module is a script or a JavaScript snippet.

In another embodiment the module is made visible to alert a user of the underlying monitoring action. Depending on implementation such a module may be made in different graphics in connection with the content of a particular user interface element within the application e.g. webpage on a website . For example a specific user interface element e.g. word logo or avatar is shown to attract a user to activate the monitoring action a voice signal is shown that a voice can be recorded or a video signal is shown that a video can be captured.

According to one embodiment when such a module is activated one way or the other browsing activities e.g. movements texts voices or videos by a user on the webpage are captured. The user may be a registered or unregistered user. The data capturing the browsing activities is streamed back to a designated computing device or the CustomerOps server for storage or analysis if needed.

According to another embodiment the particular data sent to the designated server is annotated with known data about the user specific to the business. To support multiple businesses the supporting computer is designed to require no specified data structure or schema in the annotated data it can receive. In one embodiment the annotated data from the business is simply in a plain language e.g. English . In another embodiment the annotated data from the business is structured as a nested hash serialized in a format such as JSON. The supporting server stores and indexes all of the annotated data for later retrieval wherein retrieval queries may contain arbitrary attributes and values matching specific data provided in the data stream for the purpose of selecting a group of users. shows an embodiment of an exemplary module using JavaScript to encode annotated data to be sent to the supporting server.

According to another embodiment certain keys within the annotated data or activity data by a user are specified to represent identifiers for various communication channels. These may include but are not limited to email address social network IDs as well as communication tokens or IDs associated with various notification platforms. In general an identifier is universally unique so it is also referred to as a unique identifier UID . Similar to a social security identifier uniquely assigned to a human being an UID is a numeric or alphanumeric string that is associated with a single entity within a given system. An UID makes it possible to address that entity so that it can be accessed and interacted with correctly. An example of an UID is a unique device identifier UDID . For example a UDID is a 40 character string assigned to certain devices from Apple including the iPhone iPad and iPod Touch. There are multiple advantages to having this device specific serial but it mainly serves as a way to document the existence of a device and or to track it.

Besides a network identifier for Wi Fi applications or a serial number to identify a device an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an Integrated Circuit Card ID ICCID or a Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID is a type of identifier used in an iPhone and Android phone a Windows Phone as well as other smartphone devices. One of the purposes to have such an identifier or UID in whatever form it may be is for an application or service to uniquely identify the device. According to one embodiment when the captured activity data by a user or the annotated data by a subscribing business is received an identifier embedded in the data is recognized and determined what type of device the data is coming from. Based on the characteristics responding data e.g. a promotion or an email response template can be properly formulated. According to another embodiment the captured data also includes display resolutions of the device for properly displaying a formulated response or a promoted message.

According to another embodiment a client module implementing one embodiment of the present invention is downloaded and installed in a client computer from which a user is accessing a business website subscribing to the CustomerOps services provided by a CustomerOps server. In operation whenever the website is accessed or opened in a browser the client module is activated to start capturing the activities of various interactions by a user with the website. Depending on implementation such a client module may be downloaded as part of a system module e.g. an element to an operating system or a program or upon displaying a specific webpage.

Referring now to it shows a flowchart or process of capturing activities of various interactions with a website by a user according to one embodiment of the present invention. Depending on implementation the process may be implemented in software or a combination of software and hardware. The process is initiated when a module embedded in one or more webpages is activated. According to one embodiment the module is embedded in a designated text such as online help . When the text is clicked not only is a proper message displayed accordingly but also the module is activated. In another embodiment such a module may also be used to activate a client module installed in the computer being used by the user user computer . According to yet one embodiment a module or script is simply embedded in a main page of a website. When the website is accessed the module or code is activated to immediately track most movements if not all by the user across the website.

At it is assumed that an embedded module in a webpage is activated. The process now moves to to determine if a user accessing the webpage or website is registered or unregistered. A registered user is typically a returning user. A unregistered user is considered a first timer or having not had an account with the website yet. For example many users buying items from the Amazon website www.amazon.com must be registered users. A new user browsing around or happening to be on the Amazon website could be a unregistered user till being registered with the website. Thus at the process goes to when it is detected that it is a new user where an identifier is created for the new user to link what is going to be captured. Depending on implementation the identifier could be a unique serial number e.g. from a network card or a generated serial number or numeric characters per a set of predefined rules. Likewise at the process goes to when it is detected that it is a registered user which typically happens after the user signs into his her account. At an identifier pertaining to the account is retrieved.

In any case an identifier is available to be associated with a data stream generated from various interactions by the user with the website. At the interactions are captured while the user is navigating around the website. The examples of the interactions include but may not be limited to where or which page the user has viewed or clicked how long the user has stayed on a particular page how often the user is switching from one page to another what particular items the user has viewed and for how long where the user has clicked and what texts the user has typed. In some advanced websites where voice is supported the interaction may also include voices from the user and or the website. These interactions generate a data stream per the session and are transported at often over a data network to a designated machine e.g. a server . At the data stream is received in the designated machine and archived in a designated store. Unless the user switches to another website in which the module is deactivated the process ends at and will restart from otherwise the process continues from to to capture the movements of the user across the website.

On the other end a business operating the website has created an account on a social network site e.g. Facebook to attract potential customers. It should be noted that when a social network site is recited Facebook will be used for illustration purposes. Similarly when the business s presence is recited a Facebook Page will be used for illustration purposes. Those skilled in the art shall appreciate the description can be equally applied to other social network websites e.g. Twitter.com and respectively the sharing mechanism of such social network website analogous to a Page Wall Post. Since all the users on Facebook are registered in one embodiment an identifier for a data stream to capture the activities by a user to interact with the social network account is based on the Facebook username of the user. As an example a Facebook user Mike Doe is interested in the Facebook Page of the clothing online store. Mike may have added the webpage as one of his favorites via the Like action.

According to one embodiment the server of is configured to capture various texts entered or shared by Facebook users coming to the Page. The data stream indexed as MikeDoe21 in shows that it includes information to show where the data is from. It also shows a published profile of the user on Facebook along with the texts entered by the user and exchanged with another user named Helen. Because Helen and Mike are linked friends they can exchange texts via email messages short messages or a whiteboard. As Helen becomes aware of the webpage through the texts from Mike Helen comes to visit the webpage. All texts left by Helen on the webpage are then captured and transported in another data stream indexed as HelenWise2 where 2 is added to differentiate from another user name Helen Wise. According to another embodiment the webpage created on a social network website is embedded with a module to capture some or all of the activities by a user interacting with the webpage.

Depending on implementation application program interfaces APIs provided by a social network e.g. Facebook may be used to obtain the activities happened on a specified webpage on the social network or a software module may be designed to crawl one or more designated social networks to obtain discussions about a specific business. Such a software module similar to a web crawling software for search engine is a computer program that browses the social network in a methodical automated manner or in an orderly fashion. By using name matching image matching or matching previously provided social network identifiers in the annotated data stream relevant activities from a known user could be captured and associated with already captured data in a store.

One of the important features objects and advantages in the present invention is to gather all captured data from different sources e.g. an official business website one or more other websites pages related to the official business website and text exchanges e.g. SM or email with the official business website and or a designated website related to the official business website. shows an exemplary configuration corresponding to . It is assumed that there are many businesses that have signed up for CustomerOps provided by the CustomerOps server corresponding to the server of although only three websites and are shown as an example. One or more webpages in the websites and are embedded with a module e.g. script . When any of the webpages is navigated at least a data stream is generated and transported to the server . Since a website can be accessed by multiple users from different locations simultaneously multiple data streams will be generated and all streamed to one or more designated computing machines controlled or coordinated by the CustomerOps server . Depending on implementation data streams per website are categorized or data streams per time interval are archived separately.

One of the benefits advantages and objects in the present invention is to provide an efficient and dynamic customer support. Whenever a user contacts a business after browsing its corresponding website a response can be crafted based on the interactions the user has had with the website. Instead of asking many questions to understand what the user desires a response more relevant to the need of the user or what the user is asking can be provided by way of two way communication such as phone call online chatting online automated assistance or email. As will be further detailed below the archived data streams can be retrieved and presented according to a setting. For example a setting is to display all conversations that have happened between a named operator e.g. John Smith working for the business entity operating the website and another setting is to generate a promotion message based on all registered users who have expressed their certain level of interest in a product.

Referring now to it shows a configuration of how a subscribing business accesses the collected data streams in a store for three websites A B and C. That means each of the websites A B and C is subscribed to the CustomerOps services provided by a CustomerOps server e.g. corresponding to the server of . It is assumed that a registered user named John Smith has been browsing the website B and decides to call a human operator for more information about an item he has been looking at. When a human operator responds to the call from Smith the human operator gets the registration information of Smith assuming Smith is a registered returning customer the computer being used by the operator the business computer is then caused to send an inquiry per the registration information of Smith to the CustomerOps server where a store is configured to archive all the data from the websites being supported. The CustomerOps server is configured to process the stored data at in responding to the inquiry from the business computer to deliver the data pertaining to the interactions Smith has had with the website so that the human operator knows what Smith has been interested in and how and what to say in the call with Smith.

Depending on how the data streams from all the websites are stored an example of data processing by the CustomerOps server includes retrieving all data streams from the website B and extracting only the data stream under the identifier related to Smith. The extracted data shall be constructed in the CustomerOps server or the computer being used by the human operator before being displayed on a display screen . An exemplary screenshot is provided to illustrate what the human operator may see from the extracted data according to one embodiment. Besides showing what pages Smith has navigated there may be a timestamp for each of the pages that Smith has stayed. In other words the human operator now has the knowledge about the context of what the user is asking. In one embodiment a particular item that has attracted the attention from Smith or Smith has spent a considerable time on is highlighted or texted the human operator knows immediately what interest Smith may have and what is the context of the question Smith is asking. Thus a proper response can be crafted or prepared efficiently to respond to the question.

According to one embodiment of the present invention shows a flowchart or process of accessing the stored data stream by a business subscribing to the CustomerOps services. The process may be implemented in software or in a combination of both software and hardware and starts only when there is an inquiry to access the stored data collected from a particular computer application e.g. a website a webpage or a program . In operation a CustomerOps server is configured to support a plurality of computer applications websites or programs . In the case of websites the websites are generating data streams whenever one or more webpages thereof are being visited. In reference to it shows that the data streams are stored in a designated store. When a user visiting the website B decides to contact the business operating the website B by way of two way communication e.g. email call or online chatting with a human operator or an automated assistant an inquiry is generated per a requirement and sent to the CustomerOps server to retrieve data pertaining to the user. An exemplary requirement includes but may not be limited to all texts exchanged with a specified user on a specified social network website or all emails exchanged with all users that have interacted with a specified website. Consequently an efficient or more relevant answer response may be generated or prepared for the user based on the filtered data.

Accordingly at the process determines if such an inquiry has been received. When an inquiry is received at the process goes to to determine if the corresponding data is available per an identifier of the user or per the requirement. In one case the user is a prospective customer thus the generated identifier for the user for the particular session is looked up to ensure that there is data available for the identifier. From time to time a new user may come to a website and decide to contact the business without even browsing any of the webpages in which case there would be no any identifier associated with the user thus the process goes from back to . In responding to a question from such a user the response can be structured in a way specifically for a new user hoping to get the user onto the website and eventually to enter a transaction. In another case the user is a registered returning customer and the identifier is obtained from the corresponding account for the user.

In any case once an identifier per the inquiry is confirmed the process goes to to retrieve the data from the store. As described above depending on how the data streams from all the data streams are stored there are many ways to retrieve a particular data set pertaining to the identifier in reference to a setting. As described above one embodiment of the present invention allows annotated data to be received in any form from the business. Depending on a business arrangement between the subscribing business and the CustomerOps supporting company such annotated data may be processed differently or the particular data set may be generated differently in accordance with the annotated data. According to one embodiment the particular data set is a set of statistic measurement for the activities of a user or a group of users. The statistic measurement may indicate where and how often the user has interacted with the website in a period of time and or where and how often the user has interacted with an application distributed by the business. In view of the annotated data the statistic measurement may be carried out to include a royalty indicator e.g. how often a purchase is made or a return is requested if any recent interactions with the business after an event .

In any case the retrieved data is processed at with or without the annotated data to reproduce the processed data in a predefined structure. In one embodiment the data is structured in the CustomerOps server according to a predefined set of rules. The structured data is then transported at to a designated computing device being used to respond to the question from the user. In another embodiment the computing device is installed with a module provided by a business entity in providing such CustomerOps to other businesses for their online commerce in which case the retrieved data per the identifier of the user is first transported at to the computing device. The module in the computing device is then activated to process and reproduce the data according to a predefined set of rules.

Depending on how the inquiry is generated there are different ways to respond to the inquiry. As described above there are often cases in which a user calls directly a business hosting the website in which case a human operator shall respond to the call. Based on the extracted data from the interactions by the user with the website and the collected annotated data the human operator is very well prepared to respond to the call in view of what the user has been doing on the website from the retrieved data or in conjunction with possible prior interactions if the user is a registered returning user.

Some advanced websites now offer an online virtual assistant or online automated assistant that is a program using artificial intelligence to provide customer service or other assistance on a website. Such an assistant may basically consist of a dialog system an avatar as well an expert system to provide specific expertise to the user. An automated online assistant has the ability to provide customer services 24 hours a day and 7 days a week and may at least be a complement to customer services by humans. A major underlying technology to such as assistant is natural language processing NLP that is a field of computer science artificial intelligence and linguistics concerned with the interactions between computers and human natural languages. As such NLP is related to the area of human computer interaction. Many challenges in NLP involve natural language understanding that is enabling computers to derive meaning from human or natural language input.

The main function of the dialog system of automated online assistants is to translate the human generated input into a digital format that the automated online assistant can use for further processing as well as interpret whatever solutions or replies it generates back to what a human user understands and optimally in a way as natural and user friendly as possible. However such a dialog system has not been so advanced as desired and is not helpful and even confusing a user in many cases. Most of the answers are pre prepared in sentences and assembled on the fly thus they are not tailored to a specific situation. One of the advantages benefits and objectives in the present invention is to provide a dynamic online automated assistant that provides relevant responses in view of the activities the user has had in current session or prior session s .

According to one embodiment of the present invention one webpage in a website provides a module e.g. an automated online assistant in text or voice that may be activated by a user while browsing the website. In operation the module brings up an interface to facilitate two way communication e.g. email chatting or voice . Depending on implementation the module may bring up a dialog box for the user to type in a question or a voice sign to receive a voice from the user.

In any case the two way interface allows a user to produce a question for a business to answer. In reference to the question leads to an inquiry to a CustomerOps server i.e. supporting computer . According to one embodiment the inquiry includes but may not be limited to information about a domain name of the website or a web IP address a set of annotated data is supplied by the business or generated per an operator of the business. To support multiple businesses the supporting computer is designed to require no specified data structure or schema in the annotated data it can receive. In one embodiment the annotated data from the business is simply in a plain language e.g. English .

In responding to the inquiry the CustomerOps server retrieves data for the current session and or one or more previous sessions in accordance of the annotated data. In any case the computing device user computer being used by the user is caused to send out a question to the website operator computer as shown in . As described above depending on the status of the user e.g. registered or unregistered an inquiry pertaining to the question is generated and sent to the CustomerOps server where corresponding data per the identifier of the user is retrieved. If it is a registered user there is likely additional data from previous session s that user had interacted with the website.

After the data is extracted depending on implementation at the data may be processed in the CustomerOps computer or in the operator computer to create a context around the question. A response is then generated from the context to be sent to the user computer where the user may see the text or hear the voice to his her question. The aspect of how to generate such a response is ignored herein to avoid obscuring aspects of the present invention as the embodiment of the present invention is related to how to facilitate to generate a more meaningful response based on the initial question in conjunction with the context from the current session and possible previous session s . Siri from Apple is one example of online automated assistants.

Reference of indicates another embodiment in which a user has sent an email message to a business for question. As will be further understood below one embodiment of the present invention can facilitate the response to the email more relevant to the question whether it is automated or done by a human. Referring now to it shows a set of data blocks coming from a restructuring process of the retrieved data from the CustomerOps server. The data set includes one data block representative of the email content from the user. Other blocks may represent the interactions the user had had with the website in a session. When a reply to the email is prepared a copy of the email content is automatically reproduced in the reply so that the user knows what this replay email is meant. In other words a process is initiated when data for the context is received in one embodiment of the present invention. The process is configured to filter out other data tracking and take only what the user has typed in the email inquiry. As a result the reply email from the business looks like a commonly seen format in an email reply.

According to one embodiment of the present invention shows a configuration of getting data from different resources regarding various interactions by a user with an online business operating a website . As described above activities by the user interacting with the website can be captured and the data thereof can be transported to a designated server . To expand their presences among connected users on a social network many businesses create a webpage such as www.facebook.com amazon created by Amazon and related to www.amazon.com. shows that a webpage is created on a social network website. The webpage allows users who visit the business page to write comments directly thereon or write comments in their own webpages. Even better connected contacts of these users may follow the comments to visit the business page thus creating more potential for the company.

According to one embodiment an application module not shown is designed using application programming interfaces APIs provided by the social network website and configured to fetch selected data on the business page. At certain point of time or periodically the server is caused to execute the module that goes to the business page to fetch the selected data. According to one embodiment the fetched data includes a profile of a user who has visited the business page. Many registered users of a social network publish their own profiles so that others know whether these are the ones to be connected. By getting some or all of a profile under a user the server may be configured to associate the data with an already stored data stream created by the same user so that the business may better understand the user.

According to another embodiment the business page in a social network is embedded with a code or module that once activated follows the user to get more data of the user regarding his activities about the business. For example instead of making any comments about a pair of shoes on the business page advertising various fashion shoes the user goes onto his own whiteboard to write about what he saw in the business page or text changing with another connected contact. These texts left by the user or exchanged texts may be obtained and transported with his profile to the server where the data is associated or added to the stored data stream indexed by an identifier related to this user.

In any case a user may exchange email with the business. Since many email tools generate reply email automatically embedded with texts in previous email capturing a copy of the email would be sufficient to understand what subjects the user has discussed with the business. According to one embodiment an application module is designed based on Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . The application module not shown is configured to obtain a copy of the email being exchanged between the user and the business and causes the server to store the data separately or associate the data with or add the data to the stored data stream indexed by an identifier related to this user. Similarly a user may use an online chatting tool to chat with the business. A similar implementation may be done to obtain a copy of the exchanged texts for separate storage or the stored data stream indexed by an identifier related to this user.

The module embedded in a webpage may not be activated in some devices. For example a java script code may not be activated when an iPad is used to access the webpage. To capture the activities by the user interacting with the webpage or the website the user may be requested to download an application or module that may be activated to capture the activities taking place on a device that does not support the embedded module. According to one embodiment of the present invention the module not shown is configured to transport the data stream or data capturing the activities to the designated server where the data is separately stored under an identifier related to this user or associated with the stored data stream indexed by an identifier related to this user.

Many businesses distribute specified applications to be used on mobile devices. For example Amazon.com distributes its own application for users to browse its listed goods on a mobile device e.g. iPhone or tablet . According to one embodiment a business distributes an application to allow users to interface electronically with the business where the application is embedded with a code that captures activities by the user when interacting with the business. For example the activities include a movement from one tab to another tab and further navigation into detailed information on a page after clicking onto a tab. The data representing the activities is transported to a designated device whenever the mobile device has a preferable data communication means e.g. LTE Wi Fi or 3G .

As an application of the stored data also shows that the server can be configured to respond to the user or send a promotion message to all registered users. According to one embodiment the server is configured to send a message to a user via a last known device or a most likely used device. As described above a user may interact with a website using different means e.g. direct access from a personal computer indirect access to a webpage on a social network email or chatting from an email chatting tool or even using a device not supporting a module embedded in a webpage . When there is a need to engage with the user for example to send a promotion specifically designed based on the past activities of the user a decision can be made as to which of the means may be appropriate to send such a promotion. The archived data is analyzed to see which means the user has used the most.

In another embodiment a manual selection is used. shows an exemplary interface for an operator of an online business having a website. After the operator is logged into the server a set of available channels is displayed to allow the operator to choose an appropriate one to send out a message e.g. a promotion . Depending on where the business has gathered the data for all of its users there could be many different channels. Without implying any limitations the set of available channels shows a few exemplary channels including a combination of two of the examples where an in app means criteria matching. That means a promotion is popped out or activated when certain criteria is matched.

For example the business can set up an In App message from the server for a certain segment of users e.g. any users who have recently bought more than 3 household items . When such a user hits a webpage the website or is logged onto a social network the user is identified as matching a particular segment. When this happens the user is sent the promotion via a selected channel e.g. Email In App Facebook and Twitter . Further the operator may decide which recipients shall receive the promotion as a result the promotion may only be sent to or appear on a corresponding means.

According to one embodiment appropriate channels to send messages e.g. promotions are determined automatically. As described above a unique identifier of a device is extracted from the data received from the device. For example data capturing the interactions by a user with an application running on a tablet e.g. iPad includes a unique device ID of the tablet the server configured to receive the data is further configured to determine from the device ID what type of the device it is perhaps in reference to a database. Thus when a message is prepared for distribution to users that have been selected among others the message is automatically formatted for each of the users according to the corresponding device and its display resolution for proper delivery and display on the device. Similarly when an ID indicates that a user has been active with a business that maintains a webpage on a social network e.g. Facebook a promotion message shall be formatted for proper display on the webpage so that the user may continue to interact with.

According to one embodiment of the present invention shows a flowchart or process of automatically reformatting a message per the characteristics and resolution of a device for proper delivery and display thereon. Depending on implementation the process may be implemented in software or a combination of software and hardware. The process is initiated when a business desires to communicate with a registered or potential user. There may be several reasons that a business may want to communicate with its registered users or potential users. Among all of the reasons an important one is to send a promotion message to a group of selected users who may be interested in the promotion based upon their captured activities. Another one is to respond to a question from a user where a proposed answer is pre prepared.

It is assumed that a business desires to send out a promotion to a group of users. The promotion is prepared at in a first format e.g. in HTML. The promotion may include static texts tables applications hyperlinks clickable items graphics and or multimedia content. However not all terminal devices are configured to support such a promotion. For example a promotion includes a video clip that requires a Flash plug in to playback the video clip. The Safari browser in Apple iPad does not support the Flash plug in thus the video clip may not be played back in the Safari browser when the Safari browser is used to access the promotion.

At a group of users are determined based on their activities pertaining to the promotion and possible ways of communication. At corresponding data per each of the users is selectively retrieved to determine what types of communication channels a selected user has used in a previous session or has used the most at . Based on the determined channel and device resolution the promotion prepared in the first format is reformatted at as needed.

According to one embodiment the video clip not supported is replaced by a message or converted video being supported. In a case that the video clip is replaced by a message a viewer is referred to a different mechanism e.g. another website supporting the original video clip or a correspondingly converted video clip to continue the proper presentation of the video clip . The description of how to convert the content from one format to another is not provided herein to avoid obscuring the important aspects of the present invention. Those skilled in the art shall appreciate that there are many tools that are available to convert one type of video to another type or one multimedia file to another corresponding multimedia file. One of the advantages benefits and objectives in the present invention is to ensure that a message regardless how it is prepared and what format it is in a proper mechanism is provided to ensure that the content in the message is presented properly on a selected channel.

Referring back to once the message is properly converted the process goes to to deliver the message to a user according to the determined channel. For example when it is determined that a user has communicated with the business via email on a particular product or service the message pertaining to the product service is automatically routed to an email server where the message is sent to the user based on an email address of the user on file. Likewise if the captured activities and resolution data is from a registered user the message may be sent out via the registered email address or an application that the user has been active with lately i.e. interacting with the application . Similarly the message may be simply posted on a business webpage in a social network where sufficient data related to various interactions by users with the webpage is captured.

Referring now to there is shown a functional block diagram of a server device in which a server module resides in a memory space and is executable by one or more processors . Depending on implementation this server may be a single server or a cluster of two or more servers. One embodiment of the present invention is implemented as cloud computing in which there are multiple computers or servers deployed to serve as many businesses websites as practically possible. For illustration purpose a representative of a single server device is shown and may correspond to the server in . The server device includes a network interface to facilitate the communication between the server device and other devices on a network and a storage space . The server module is an executable version of one embodiment of the present invention and delivers when executed some or all of the features results contemplated in the present invention.

According to one embodiment the server module comprises an administration interface an account manager a client manager a security manager a message manager a setting manager a data processing module .

As the name suggests the administration interface facilitates a system administrator to register a business entity subscribing to full customer operations provided by the server and grant respective access privileges to the authorized operators of the business entity. The administration interface is an entry point to the server module from which all sub modules or the results thereof can be initiated updated and managed. For example a business A operating a website subscribes to the services and authorizes its operators A1 and A2 to access the data collected by the server where the data is uniquely identified e.g. the business name or the domain name of the website . Likewise another business B operating a website subscribes to the services and authorizes its operators B1 B2 and B3 to access the data collected by the server where the data is uniquely identified and only available to the business B. Depending on a business arrangement with the server or a level of the supports being subscribed the operators of the businesses A and B appear to log into a similar server but access different data sets stored and reconstructing levels. For example the stored data may be retrieved at a certain level e.g. for a latest session versus for prior sessions a reconstructing level controls what contexts can be generated for email response an automated assistant or a voice response voice to text or text to voice .

The account manager is provided to control who can access the store data. As indicated above a subscribing business may authorize a number of operators or account managers to access the stored data indexed for the business. The account manager provides a mechanism to control the access. In addition the account manager is designed to control how the data is accessed in accordance with a setting.

The client manager is provided to manage the subscribing businesses. In operation the client manager controls whether a data stream from a subscribing website shall be archived and how to archive it in a data store. For example a website is being managed to monitor the activities of users coming to the website a corresponding webpage is created on a social network. Thus the client manager is configured to send out a module to retrieve data left by registered users from the webpage on the social network and determine how to associate the data with already stored data for the business.

This module is configured to provide security when needed. The stored data for each of the subscribing businesses or companies may be encrypted thus only authorized user may access the secured data. In some situations an encryption key to a secured file is securely maintained and may be retrieved by a system administrator to access a secured document in case there is a need. In one embodiment the security manage is configured to initiate a secure communication session when it detects that a registered user accesses a file remotely over an open network.

The message manager is a tool provided to an operator to generate a message to be sent to a user or a group of users. Based on stored data and an appropriate retrieval query a promotion may be formed for a specified user a set of users and all users who have had interactions with the business. is an example to show that the tool allows the operator to determine what channel to deliver the promotion and who to receive the promotion. In operation the access to the message manager allows a business subscribing to the services provided by the server to communicate with users for example to send promotions through a specified channel. Depending on implementation a message e.g. promotion or something else can be sent generically to all of the users on a specified channel or formed individually and sent to an individual channel via an appropriate channel based on the activities the user has performed.

This module is primarily used to configure various rules imposed across the system to control communications between the server and a client machine. For example certain rules are provided to certain websites that may capture displays of computing devices accessing the websites without asking for any permission. This module is also provided to control how a stored data stream is retrieved and processed. For example when in composing a reply message a set of parameters could be set up so that the stored data stream is processed to retrieve only texts related to email exchange between a user and a business. shows an exemplary display that is provided for a system administrator to control the setting. shows a presentation of archived data in accordance with a set of settings e.g. to show all exchanged texts between a registered user and an operator of a business .

This module is configured to work with the setting manager to perform data operations per a request from an operator. Whenever there is a request from an operator to access the stored data this module shall be initiated and get the parameters from the setting manager pertaining to the request to process the stored data and present the data in a way preferred by the operator.

The invention is preferably implemented in software but can also be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include read only memory random access memory CD ROMs DVDs magnetic tape optical data storage devices and carrier waves. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

The present invention has been described in sufficient details with a certain degree of particularity. It is understood to those skilled in the art that the present disclosure of embodiments has been made by way of examples only and that numerous changes in the arrangement and combination of parts may be resorted without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as claimed. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description of embodiments.

