---

title: Multiple input multiple output user equipment radio frequency assistant system
abstract: A user equipment and a wireless radio frequency assistant in a communication system that supports multiple input multiple output. The wireless radio frequency assistant and the user equipment operate together as a single system. The user equipment controls and activates the wireless radio frequency assistant to transform a first frequency of a radio frequency signal transmitted to the system of user equipment and the wireless radio frequency assistant to a second frequency. The wireless radio frequency assistant transmits the second frequency to the user equipment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077423&OS=09077423&RS=09077423
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09077423
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20131011
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 698 855 entitled MULTIPLE INPUT MULTIPLE OUTPUT USER EQUIPMENT RADIO FREQUENCY ASSISTANT SYSTEM filed Feb. 2 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to multiple input multiple output wireless communication systems that include base stations and user equipment. More particularly this disclosure relates to a wireless communication system that includes a radio frequency assistant configured by user equipment to assist in radio frequency signal transmissions.

Multiple input multiple output technology increases the strength power and reliability of wireless signal transmissions through the implementation of multiple antennas. The use of multiple input multiple output technology uses a plurality of antennas to enhance performance through increased data transmission and increased spatial diversity. In current spatial diversity systems multiple antennas at a base station or multiple antennas at a terminal may operate at the same carrier frequency. For example a plurality of antenna elements operating at a receiver may receive independent transmissions on the same carrier frequency and enhance performance by decreasing the amount of interference with a signal. Similarly a plurality of antenna elements at a transmitter increases the capacity of the data transmission.

In current spatial diversity systems the spacing between the antennas at a transmitter and the antennas at a receiver may have an impact on the correlation between the transmitter antennas and between the receiver antennas. The correlation between closely spaced antennas may reduce any multiple input multiple output spatial diversity and multiplexing gains. Generally correlation decreases with an increase in antenna separation. Experimental results and measurements suggest that antennas may be decorrelated at a transmitter or a receiver by spacing apart antenna elements at about a physical distance of half lambda 

For example at a frequency of 700 MHz a physical distance of half lambda or approximately 21.4 cm would be required for antenna decorrelation to achieve independent antenna operation. In a compact wireless device such as a handset or similar wireless cellular system this physical spacing between multiple antennas is challenging to achieve on a single device because of the limited amount of space available within such small devices.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein. The disclosure may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated and described herein which may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with a full scope of equivalence. It should be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate the reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

According to one illustrative embodiment a wireless communication system comprises a radio frequency assistant that is activated to transform and repeat a radio frequency signal responsive to commands the radio frequency assistant receives wirelessly. The wireless communication system includes user equipment that configures and controls the radio frequency assistant through the wireless commands. The radio frequency assistant and the user equipment are configured to operate together as a single system.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a wireless apparatus that processes radio frequency signals comprises a frequency transformer that is configured to transform responsive to a control signal a first radio frequency signal received in a first radio frequency band to a second radio frequency signal in a second radio frequency band. The wireless apparatus also includes a first antenna communicatively coupled to the frequency transformer to receive the first radio frequency signal in the first radio frequency band and transmit the transformed first radio frequency signal in the second radio frequency band to user equipment responsive to wireless commands being received from the user equipment. The user equipment enables the control signal to control a configuration of the frequency transformer.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the disclosure a method of assisting radio frequency transmissions in a wireless communication system is disclosed. The method comprises the actions of activating a radio frequency assistant with a user equipment to transform a first radio frequency signal to a second radio frequency signal responsive to commands being received from the user equipment and transmitting the second radio frequency signal to the user equipment over a wireless link between the radio frequency assistant and the user equipment.

The present disclosure provides a user equipment assistant system with a plurality of antennas for wireless communication in a multiple input multiple output wireless system. The components of the user equipment assistant system include user equipment and a radio frequency assistant that is wirelessly coupled to the user equipment and is configured to operate together with the user equipment as a single wireless system. The user equipment and the radio frequency assistant each include at least one antenna that is separated at a distance D from each other. User equipment includes but is in no way limited to devices such as mobile stations routers handheld computers digital assistants mobile cellular devices and similar devices recognized by one skilled in the art.

The user equipment activates the radio frequency assistant to receive radio frequency signals through a number of commands that also control the operations of the radio frequency assistant. The radio frequency assistant is activated and controlled by the user equipment to transform a radio frequency signal that is received to a different carrier frequency for transmission. The user equipment determines whether the radio frequency assistant retransmits or repeats the transformed radio frequency signal to a base station or to user equipment. The radio frequency assistant retransmits or repeats a different carrier frequency as determined by the user equipment. The user equipment communicates with the radio frequency assistant over a short range wireless link that may be activated between the radio frequency assistant and the user equipment to receive or send radio frequency signals.

In the art of communication systems a wireless link is a communications connection between a number of communication units that transmits and receives radio frequency signals. User equipment as referenced within this disclosure has the same meaning and functionality as the term UE . Radio frequency assistant as referenced within this disclosure has the same meaning and functionality as the term Assistant . Also in this disclosure short range references a distance that in some embodiments may be within the range of about ten meters. A short range distance depends on the power of the signal being transmitted and the strength of the signal needed for transmission or reception.

The radio frequency assistant may be carried at a short distance from the user equipment. For example in some embodiments the distance between the radio frequency assistant and the user equipment may be less than or equal to ten meters. The radio frequency assistant may be carried in close proximity to the user equipment through various implementations. For example without limitation the radio frequency assistant may be implemented in a keychain a key ring or the holster of a user equipment that is a mobile cellular device to be carried together with the user equipment or at a short range distance from the user equipment.

Turning now to a top level representation of a two by two multiple input multiple output wireless communication system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. A user equipment assistant system receives a plurality of radio frequency signals of a single frequency f from base station through a plurality of communication channels or paths. In this embodiment there are four paths path f path f path f and path f . Path f path f path f and path f may transmit on a single frequency f between the user equipment assistant system and the base station . The transmission may be an uplink communication transmission to base station from user equipment or a downlink communication transmission from base station to user equipment . In the illustrative examples the number of paths is not limited to the illustrated paths and may include any number of communication paths as may be known to one skilled in the art.

As depicted user equipment assistant system includes two antenna elements UA C and UA C. Antenna UA C and antenna UA C are spaced or separated from each other by a distance D . The spacing between UA C and UA C should be sufficient to provide independent transmit and receive transmission paths and sufficiently reduce any correlation or interference between UA C and UA C. The spatial separation of distance D represents an optimum separation distance of approximately

In a downlink communication transmission base station may transmit a radio signal of frequency f over base station antennas BA and BA . Base station antenna and base station antenna may be configured as a single antenna or a plurality or bank of antennas. Radio signal frequency f is received by user equipment assistant system through multiple paths over antenna UA C and UA C of user equipment assistant system .

In an embodiment of a downlink communication transmission a radio frequency signal transmits over path f from antenna BA on base station directly to antenna UA C on user equipment . A radio frequency signal transmits over path f from antenna BA on base station directly to antenna UA C on radio frequency assistant . Additionally the path f radio frequency signal transmits from antenna BA directly to antenna UA C on user equipment . Path f radio frequency signal transmits from antenna BA on base station directly to antenna UA C on radio frequency assistant . User equipment may enable the operation of radio frequency assistant of user equipment assistant system to transform or transform the radio frequency signal over path f to a second radio frequency signal f that transmits between antenna AM B and antenna AM B over a short range wireless link path f directly to user equipment .

As depicted antenna AM B is internal to the user equipment assistant system and functions to enable the wireless link path f . In an embodiment antenna UA C and antenna AM B may be a single antenna.

In an uplink communication transmission user equipment assistant system may transmit a signal of frequency f to base station antennas BA and BA of base station over multiple paths. In an embodiment the user equipment assistant system may transmit the signal over path f and path f to antenna BA on the base station and over path f and path f to antenna BA on the base station . User equipment may enable the operation of radio frequency assistant to transmit the signals path f and path f . The assistant will transform a signal from a wireless short range channel path f and transmit the signal at frequency f over path f and path f .

Turning now to a top level diagram of a one by two multiple input multiple output wireless communication system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In a one by two multiple input multiple output communication system there are two antennas on one side and one antenna on the other side of a transmission. Multiple antennas are used on either of the receiver or the transmitter but not both the receiver and transmitter of a two way communication. In multiple input multiple output wireless communication system the downlink data transmission is a communication transmission from base station transmits to user equipment assistant system . The uplink data transmission is a communication transmission from user equipment assistant system to base station .

In an illustrative embodiment the downlink data transmission may use one transmitting antenna at the base station antenna BA and two receiving antennas at the user equipment assistant system antenna UA C and antenna UA C. Base station antenna BA may be a single antenna or a plurality or bank of antennas. The uplink data transmission may use one transmitting antenna on the user equipment assistant system antenna UA C and one receiving antenna on the base station antenna BA .

In another illustrative embodiment the uplink data transmission may use two transmitting antennas on the user equipment assistant system antenna UA C and antenna UA C and one receiving antenna on the base station antenna BA to achieve some performance benefit from transmit diversity. Performance benefits may include but is in no way limited to lower error rate increased data rate or capacity of wireless communications systems increased propagation distance or range of the wireless communications system and reduced signal interference.

For example antenna UA C may transmit signals over path f and antenna UA C may transmit signals over path f . Interference on either or both transmission paths such as path f and path f may cause fading on the selected path or reduce the efficiency of transmission if only one path is transmitting the signal frequency.

In an illustrative embodiment antenna UA C and antenna UA C may be dynamically selected. In another illustrative embodiment antenna UA C and antenna UA C may be used at the same time. In another illustrative embodiment it may also be possible to switch or toggle between antenna UA C and antenna UA C to overcome potential fading and increase the signal frequency transmission as needed.

In all the illustrative embodiments referenced user equipment may enable the operation of antenna UA C of radio frequency assistant for transmission of signals across signal path path f . In an uplink transmission the radio frequency assistant transforms a signal and retransmits or repeats the transformed signal over a wireless short range link path f . The radio frequency assistant retransmits or repeats the transformed signal at a different frequency over the signal path path f .

In operation base station may transmit a single frequency over multiple independent paths to multiple antennas at user equipment assistant system in a downlink transmission. A frequency signal f may be transmitted from base station over path f and path f to antenna UA C of user equipment and antenna UA C of radio frequency assistant . User equipment may enable operation of radio frequency assistant to transform the signal f received at antenna UA C to a signal f. User equipment retransmits or repeats the transformed signal f over a short range wireless link path f . For illustrative purposes only as depicted radio frequency transmissions over wireless link path f between user equipment and radio frequency assistant are enabled by antenna AM B and antenna AM B.

As depicted antenna AM B is internal to the user equipment assistant system and functions to enable the wireless link path f . In an embodiment antenna UA C and antenna AM B may be a single antenna.

Turning now to a top level system diagram of a two by two multiple input multiple output wireless communication system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure is disclosed. In the depicted example user equipment assistant system includes user equipment and radio frequency assistant . Although radio frequency assistant may be present in user equipment assistant system it may be optionally enabled by user equipment . User equipment selectively enables the use of radio frequency assistant .

In one embodiment user equipment includes the functionality of radio frequency assistant and increase antenna diversity and power by including a number of antennas such as antenna UA A and UA C that are capable of transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals simultaneously across a plurality of paths such as path f path f path f and path f . As used within this disclosure a number of refers to one or more items.

User equipment may selectively determine whether to activate or deactivate the use of radio frequency assistant . In an illustrative embodiment user equipment activates radio frequency assistant whenever it receives radio frequency signal. In another embodiment user equipment may activate and deactivate radio frequency assistant approximately every millisecond or on a per subframe basis. Other embodiments may be recognized by one skilled in the art.

The determination to selectively activate or deactivate radio frequency assistant may be based on whether processing of the user equipment indicates that enabling of the assistant is necessary advantageous or possible. For example without limitation user equipment may deactivate the use of radio frequency assistant when the radio frequency assistant is not present when the radio frequency assistant is not functional or to increase battery life of the user equipment or the radio frequency assistant .

Conversely for example without limitation user equipment may activate the use of radio frequency assistant when user equipment determines that a radio frequency signal is not being transmitted with sufficient power or battery life or battery saving is not an important issue. Other scenarios or embodiments that would result in the selective enablement of the radio frequency assistant would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

In an embodiment where the user equipment selectively activates radio frequency assistant radio frequency assistant will receive radio frequency signals over antenna UA C. User equipment controls radio frequency assistant with commands that enable the radio frequency assistant to transform the frequency of a radio frequency signal received on antenna UA C to a different frequency. Radio frequency assistant retransmits or repeats the transformed frequency to user equipment . In embodiments where the radio frequency assistant is not activated or used user equipment implements the functionality of radio frequency assistant and receives and processes all radio wave signals.

In an embodiment of top level system diagram radio frequency assistant is deactivated or disabled in the user equipment assistant system . Disabling radio frequency assistant disables antenna UA C. In a downlink transmission antenna BA of base station transmits a radio wave of a first frequency f to user equipment antenna UA A over path f and to user equipment antenna UA C over path f . Similarly base station antenna BA transmits a radio wave of frequency f to user equipment antenna UA A over path f and to user equipment antenna UA C across signal path f . Base station antenna BA and base station antenna BA may transmit the same data to user equipment antenna UA A and antenna UA C or different data may be transmitted.

In an uplink transmission user equipment antenna UA A sends data in a radio wave of frequency f to base station antenna BA over path f and to base station antenna BA over path f . User equipment antenna UA C may send the same data as user equipment antenna UA A or different data to base station antenna BA over path f and base station antenna BA over path f .

In an embodiment of the depicted example of top level system diagram radio frequency assistant is activated or enabled in the user equipment system by user equipment . In a downlink transmission enabling assistant results in the disabling of user equipment antenna UA C as a receiver for radio wave signals from base station across signal paths path f and path f . Instead of user equipment antenna UA C receiving radio wave signals antenna UA C of enabled assistant receives signals transmitted at a first radio frequency from base station antenna BA over path f and from BA of base station over path f . Radio frequency assistant transforms the received signals to a second and different frequency f and transmits the transformed signal to user equipment across wireless links AM B and AM B.

Similarly in an uplink transmission enabling radio frequency assistant results in the disabling of user equipment antenna UA C as a transmitter for radio frequency signals to the base station . Instead of user equipment antenna UA C transmitting radio wave signals to base station the radio wave signals are transmitted using a second frequency f over short range wireless link path f . Antenna AM B and antenna AM B function to enable the wireless link path f . The radio frequency assistant then transforms these signals to a first frequency f for transmission to the base station over path f and path f .

The illustration of through is not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. In addition to the components illustrated other components may be used in addition to or in place of the components illustrated. Some components may be unnecessary in some advantageous embodiments.

Referring now to an illustration of a communication system that may implement an alternate embodiment of in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure is depicted. In the depicted example the user equipment assistant system is expanded to include a number of user equipment and a single assistant that may be configured through a network to operate with a number of different user equipment. Although the radio frequency assistant is configured to operate with a single user equipment the radio frequency assistant may also be reconfigured to retransmit a signal corresponding to other user equipment. As used herein in this disclosure a number of refers to one or more items.

For example in a base station such as base station of is represented by wireless local area router . In this illustrative embodiment two frequency bands band and band are illustrated. However one skilled in the art would recognize that the number of bands is not limited to the number of bands illustrated. The number of bands may vary in alternative embodiments based on implementation. A band is a contiguous set of frequencies. For example a contiguous set or range of frequencies from 1900 megahertz MHz to 1980 MHz represents the set of frequencies in a 1900 megahertz MHz band.

In the depicted embodiment Band includes a first frequency f and a second frequency f. Band includes a third frequency f a fourth frequency f and a control channel frequency. Wireless local area router allocates frequency of band to user equipment UE and allocates frequency of band to user equipment UE .

In an illustrative embodiment network may assign a unique identification to radio frequency assistant through wireless router that pairs radio frequency assistant with for operation with user equipment UE in system . The unique identification may be for example without limitation a number a code or other identifier known to one skilled in the art. Commands and instructions are sent between user equipment UE and paired radio frequency assistant over control channels located respectively in user equipment UE and radio frequency assistant represented here as a single control channel .

Wireless router may transmit a signal at frequency over signal path f and signal path f to user equipment UE and over signal path f and signal path f to the radio frequency assistant . Radio frequency assistant uses band to retransmit signals. Radio frequency assistant retransmits the first frequency f over signal path f to user equipment UE .

In another illustrative embodiment wireless local area router allocates frequency of band to user equipment UE . Wireless router may also transmit a frequency over signal path f and path f to user equipment UE and over path f and path f to the radio frequency assistant .

Network may transmit a request wirelessly over path for user equipment UE to configure radio frequency assistant to retransmit frequency to user equipment UE . Radio frequency assistant receives frequency on path f and path f and retransmits a signal of frequency as a signal of frequency across path f .

These depicted examples illustrate the implementation of only a downlink transmission from a base station such as wireless local area router to user equipment such as UE . However the implementation is not limited to downlink transmissions and may also be applicable to uplink transmissions or transmissions from user equipment to a base station as would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

The illustration of is not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. In an advantageous embodiment for example without limitation a plurality of radio frequency assistants may be activated and controlled by one or more user equipment.

Additionally In addition to the components illustrated other components may be used in addition to or in place of the components illustrated. Some components may be unnecessary in some advantageous embodiments. Also the blocks are presented to illustrate functional components. One or more of these blocks may be combined into different blocks divided into different blocks or both combined and divided into different blocks when implemented in different advantageous embodiments.

In a detailed block diagram of the user equipment assistant system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In detailed block diagram user equipment assistant system is an example of one implementation of user equipment assistant system as illustrated in multiple input multiple output wireless communication system .

As illustrated user equipment assistant system includes components that function as terminal devices within a communications system such as communication system . In this illustrative embodiment user equipment assistant system includes user equipment and radio frequency assistant . User equipment may include wireless devices for example without limitation a mobile phone a smart phone a laptop computer a personal digital assistant or other such wireless mobile device as may be known to one skilled in the art.

User equipment assistant system includes at least two antennas antenna UA A and antenna UA A. Antenna UA A is coupled to user equipment to facilitate wireless communications that include transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals from an external network not shown or base station not shown . Antenna UA A is coupled to radio frequency assistant to enable wireless communications including transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals. A radio frequency signal may be received or transmitted through antenna UA A and processed through primary transceiver . Primary transceiver communicates with an external network through antenna UA A. In some embodiments the external network may be a cellular network such as a Global System for Mobile communications GSM network or other wireless communications network known to one skilled in the art. For example a radio frequency signal may be transmitted from a base station such as base station in .

In a downlink data transmission antenna UA A of user equipment and antenna UA A of radio frequency assistant are configured to receive the radio frequency signal transmission from a base station. Primary transceiver processes the radio frequency signal received from the base station not shown through the UE baseband and control processor . User equipment may enable radio frequency assistant to process the radio frequency signal received over antenna UA A through frequency transformer .

Frequency transformer may include frequency transformer and amplifier and a reference oscillator that is an internal unit of the frequency transformer . In some embodiments a reference oscillator external to the frequency transformer may be used. The frequency transformer and amplifier transforms the radio frequency signal to a second and different radio frequency signal. The transformed signal is wirelessly communicated from the radio frequency assistant to secondary transceiver of user equipment . Secondary transceiver of user equipment communicates with the radio frequency assistant over wireless link between antenna AM B and antenna AM B. Secondary transceiver receives the radio frequency signals sent to user equipment assistant system and transformed by the frequency transformer of radio frequency assistant .

The control channel wireless link between antenna CC C and antenna CC C is internal to user equipment assistant system and operates between user equipment and radio frequency assistant to enable user equipment to send commands to control the operation of radio frequency assistant . The UE baseband and control processor of user equipment may issue or send a number of operational commands across control channel wireless link to radio frequency assistant that are processed by microprocessor . The microprocessor may process commands that enable frequency transformer and amplifier and reference oscillator as may be required by the user equipment to transform a radio frequency signal that may be processed through antenna UA A.

For example user equipment may send a power off signal or command that is processed by the UE baseband and control processor . The processed command is sent from the UE baseband and control processor to the UE control channel modem . UE control channel modem wirelessly issues the power off signal or command over wireless link between antenna CC C and antenna CC C to turn on radio frequency assistant . Assistant control channel modem receives the power off command and sends the power off command to microprocessor . Microprocessor executes the command and turns off the frequency transformer and other operations of the radio frequency assistant .

In one or more advantageous embodiments of this disclosure antenna CC C and antenna AM B may function as a single antenna that receives and transmits signals. Alternatively in one or more illustrative embodiments of this disclosure antenna CC C antenna AM B and antenna UA A may function as a single antenna that receives and transmits signals.

Additionally in one or more advantageous embodiments of this disclosure antenna CC C and antenna AM B may function as a single antenna that receives and transmits signals. Alternatively in one or more illustrative embodiments of this disclosure antenna CC C antenna AM B and antenna UA A may function as a single antenna that receives and transmits signals.

In these depicted examples the user equipment may issue a number of different commands in addition to the power off command to enable and control the radio frequency assistant . The commands are wirelessly communicated from UE control channel modem through assistant control channel modem to microprocessor . Microprocessor is coupled to assistant control channel modem to receive commands from the UE control channel modem of user equipment . Microprocessor controls frequency transformer and amplifier to format and process commands and events such as change frequency change gain turn on turn off and other such commands and events as will be described further in this disclosure.

The assistant control channel modem regulates the communication transmissions between user equipment and radio frequency assistant . The communication transmissions include the sending and receiving of information such as without limitation commands radio frequency signals and status messages between user equipment and radio frequency assistant . Microprocessor receives the commands and radio frequency signals and adjusts the gain frequency or power state of the frequency transformer and amplifier . The microprocessor adjusts the reference frequency through reference oscillator . Reference oscillator provides the reference frequency for the frequency transformer and amplifier that determines the transformation of the radio frequency signals from a first band to a different second band.

Frequency transformer may include reference oscillator . In an advantageous embodiment the frequency transformer and amplifier may function together with the reference oscillator as a single physical unit such as frequency transformer . In other embodiments reference oscillator may be external to or outside of frequency transformer . Microprocessor adjusts the reference frequency through reference oscillator . Frequency transformer and amplifier determine how the gain and frequency are transformed from one band to another.

Referring now to a detailed block diagram of a user equipment assistant system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. illustrates the details of user equipment assistant system as illustrated in . In user equipment system details the communication of commands between the user equipment and the radio frequency assistant .

In command control messages are processed through UE control channel modem over a wireless link such as wireless link between antenna CC C and antenna CC C. The UE baseband and control processor may issue a command that gets sent out over wireless link from UE control channel modem to user equipment control channel modem . In this illustrative example the UE baseband and control processor includes communications module and event logic .

Application module may generate or input commands or control messages to the UE baseband and control processor Event logic receives commands control messages and radio frequency signals from communications module and application module and determines whether to send the commands or control messages to the UE control channel modem . The communications module also receives and sends data to and from primary transceiver and secondary transceiver . User equipment receives and sends data commands and radio frequency signals from UE control channel modem to assistant control channel modem over wireless link between antenna CC C and antenna CC C.

Microprocessor receives the command signals from assistant control channel modem and processes them through command interpreter . The commands determine which features of the frequency transformer are active. For example the commands may activate and control the frequency transformer to perform a gain and frequency adjustment for radio frequency assistant that amplifies and changes the frequency of the radio frequency signal. Microprocessor may acknowledge the processing of each command received from user equipment by sending a status message from status logic over the assistant control channel modem . The assistant control channel modem wirelessly communicates the status message to UE control channel modem which communicates the information to the communications module for processing.

Status logic may generate a status message in response to a status command request from user equipment . Status logic may also generate the status message automatically based on a trigger such as without limitation an event that disables frequency transformer a power on or power off event or some other command for which the user equipment may require an acknowledgement.

Frequency transformer may include a number of components such as frequency transformer and amplifier and reference oscillator as illustrated in . The microprocessor may control the operational status of the frequency transformer . For example it turns the frequency transformer on and off. Commands from microprocessor to frequency transformer may control adjustments of the reference oscillator inside of the frequency transformer to correct channel perform signal gain changes and perform frequency changes.

Turning now to a diagram of a state machine is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In this depicted example state machine may be implemented for an assistant such as radio frequency assistant Assistant in .

As illustrated state machine illustrates the events that may occur within a radio frequency assistant to transition change or maintain the state of the radio frequency assistant. In this illustrative example the Assistant has three states that are indicated as null sleep and active . The null state is the root or initial state from which all subsequent or further actions occur. In the null state the Assistant has no power and is not operational. In the sleep state the Assistant is operational and waits to execute a command. In the sleep state only the control channel modem and microprocessor of the Assistant are on and operational. The frequency transformer of the Assistant is not powered on. The active state indicates that the Assistant is operating and responding to commands as instructed by the microprocessor such as microprocessor of . In the active state the frequency transformer is operational and actively translating radio frequency RF signals.

As illustrated the arrows represent transitions from one state to another state because of an event. An event may be defined as something that occurs that causes the assistant to transition from one state to another state while certain actions are being executed or causes a reentry of the same state while certain actions are being executed.

Focusing first on the null state of state machine and the transition to and from the null state in an embodiment the Assistant is in a non operational or null state. The Assistant in the null state may not receive or process any commands since the Assistant is off. The Assistant becomes operational after being activated or powered on by a physical occurrence.

For example without limitation an external switch on the Assistant may be enabled a battery may be charged and physically placed into the radio frequency assistant or another such physical action. A power on event transitions the Assistant from the null state to the sleep state.

Similarly a power off event or a power off command may transition the Assistant from the sleep state to the null state. In sleep state the Assistant is on and waiting for an event to occur. During the sleep state the radio frequency assistant control channel modem may be sending and receiving commands and information. A power off command may be received by the control channel mode. The power off command transitions the Assistant from the sleep state to the null state.

Similarly a power off event in sleep state transitions the assistant from the sleep state to the null state. A power off event may be a physical occurrence that includes but is not limited to actions such as toggling a power switch on the Assistant removing a battery to disconnect the power source or other such actions. A power off event may also occur when the Assistant is in active state to transition the Assistant to null state. In active state the Assistant is operating and processing commands. A physical event such as powering off the Assistant through a switch or removing a battery source of power in the Assistant would cause the state machine of the Assistant to transition from active state to null state.

Focusing now on the sleep state or mode of state machine the assistant control channel modem is operational and may respond to commands and information that are being received and sent. In sleep state the Assistant may receive a command to start processing from the user equipment with which it is configured to operate such as user equipment of .

The enable assistant command transitions the Assistant from the sleep state to the active state. In the active state the frequency transformer is on and processes any signals being transmitted. In some embodiments the frequency transformer processes the signals by translating the signals from a first frequency to a second frequency. In another embodiment the frequency transformer may process the signals by adjusting the gain of a signal The Assistant transitions from active state to sleep state on receiving a disable assistant command.

A failure of the microprocessor in the Assistant to activate the frequency transformer amplifier and reference oscillator will trigger a transformer disabled event that transitions the Assistant to the sleep state from the active state. The Assistant acknowledges all commands sent from the user equipment to the Assistant. For example without limitation the user equipment may send a get status command to the Assistant in the active state. The Assistant acknowledges the get status command by sending a status message back to the user equipment and remaining in its existing active state.

In sleep state the Assistant may also receive a get status command that is sent from the user equipment. In response to the get status command the assistant provides its operating status to the user equipment and remains in the sleep state. The status message may include information that may be useful to the user equipment such as without limitation the amount of battery power remaining for the Assistant the strength or amount of radio frequency power detected at the antenna of the Assistant and other such information that would be known to one skilled in the art.

Turning now to the active state the control channel modem of the assistant in this state is receiving and processing radio frequency signals commands and information through a microprocessor such as microprocessor of . Processing may include without limitation the translation of radio frequency signals by the frequency transformer. Specifically a frequency transformer and amplifier block within the frequency transformer may transform a first frequency to a second frequency adjust the gain level of the frequency transformer and other such actions known to one skilled in the art.

In the active state a change channel command may be sent to the Assistant. A channel is a specific frequency allocation within a band. A channel may also be referred to as a radio frequency signal. The user equipment will occasionally change frequency channels. The change channel command is sent by the user equipment to set the operating frequency of the Assistant to the same operating frequency and radio frequency band or channel as the user equipment. The change channel command is used for large frequency changes. For example large frequency changes may refer to steps in a channel frequency allocation for a given band which may be adjustments of approximately 200 kiloHertz kHz or more. The Assistant remains in the active state after processing the change channel command.

In the active state the user equipment may send a change signal gain command to the Assistant to adjust the ability of the frequency transformer amplifier and reference oscillator to process an incoming signal of a particular power level that is also being processed by the user equipment. The Assistant remains in the active state after processing the change signal gain command.

In the active state a change frequency command may also be sent by the user equipment to adjust the reference frequency of the Assistant. The Assistant may maintain a reference frequency that is separate from the reference frequency of the base station and user equipment. The reference frequency of the Assistant may need to be adjusted by the user equipment so that it is within the same frequency tolerance that is required of the user equipment. The reference frequency of the Assistant may be adjusted through the frequency transformer.

The change frequency command is used for small frequency adjustments between the user equipment and the Assistant. For example a small frequency offset of approximately 500 Hertz Hz or less between the Assistant and the user equipment may be detected by the baseband and control processor. In response the user equipment may send the change frequency command to the assistant to adjust the frequency. The Assistant remains in the active state after processing the change frequency command.

In a diagram of a state table that provides details of the state machine of the radio frequency assistant Assistant of in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure is illustrated. In this depicted example the state table of the Assistant illustrates three major states as NULL state SLEEP state and ACTIVE state.

The state table depicts ten commands or events which are actions or procedures that occur to cause a change of state of the Assistant. The term IGNORE indicates that a state does not recognize a command or event and therefore no changes of state or actions associated with the change of state occurs. In these depicted examples the number of states commands and events as illustrated in are implementation dependent and are not limited to the number of states and events illustrated.

The commands are without limitation ENABLE ASSISTANT CHANGE CHANNEL GET STATUS POWER OFF CHANGE SIGNAL CHANGE FREQUENCY DISABLE ASSISTANT and TRANSFORMER DISABLED . The events are without limitation POWER OFF EVENT and POWER ON EVENT .

In the NULL state or mode the control channel modem of the Assistant is off and cannot process or respond to any commands. Therefore any command that requires processing through the Assistant control channel modem is ignored or disregarded. In the NULL state or mode the Assistant responds to a POWER ON EVENT . A POWER ON EVENT may be a button or switch on the Assistant being toggled or flipped on. A POWER ON EVENT may also occur for example upon a fully charged battery being placed or installed within the Assistant. The POWER ON EVENT turns the Assistant on to an operational state capable of processing all commands and events through its control channel modem. The POWER ON EVENT transitions the Assistant to SLEEP state.

Referring now to SLEEP state a power off command POWER OFF and power off event POWER OFF EVENT turns the Assistant off and transitions the state machine of the Assistant from SLEEP to NULL . In SLEEP state the microprocessor of the Assistant may be operational in a low slow duty cycle mode. The microprocessor may check the assistant control channel modem at periodic intervals to determine whether a command or message exists that requires the Assistant to begin receiving and transforming radio frequency signals.

For example an ENABLE ASSISTANT command received by the Assistant control channel modem may cause the microprocessor to perform the action of activate frequency transformer to enable the receiving and transformation of radio frequency signals to the Assistant. The ENABLE ASSISTANT command transitions the Assistant from SLEEP state to ACTIVE state.

The Assistant may automatically send an acknowledgement of each command received and processed by the Assistant control channel modem. The user equipment may also send a GET STATUS command to check the state of the Assistant. GET STATUS command is processed through the Assistant control channel modem and causes the microprocessor to perform a send status message action. Send status message sends the current status of the assistant state machine back to the user equipment. The Assistant remains in the current state after execution of a send status message action. For example in SLEEP state the send status message action would cause the Assistant to remain in the SLEEP state. In ACTIVE state the send status message action would cause the Assistant to remain in the ACTIVE state.

In the ACTIVE state the assistant control channel modem receives commands and information from the user equipment for processing by the microprocessor of the Assistant. In ACTIVE state a POWER OFF EVENT causes the microprocessor to perform the action of turn assistant off to turn off the Assistant. POWER OFF EVENT transitions the Assistant to the NULL state. The turn assistant off action disables the assistant channel control modem from receiving any commands or information.

In ACTIVE state a CHANGE CHANNEL command causes the microprocessor to perform the action of adjust frequency transformer channel . The microprocessor may change the channel by adjusting the frequency of the frequency transformer. The Assistant remains in the ACTIVE state upon completion of the microprocessor action adjust frequency transformer .

A change signal gain command causes the microprocessor to adjust the gain level of the frequency transformer . Specifically in the frequency transformer the microprocessor tunes the level of the frequency transformer and amplifier to transmit a signal at a specified power level. The Assistant remains in the ACTIVE state upon completion of the microprocessor action of activate frequency transformer .

CHANGE FREQUENCY command causes the microprocessor to adjust the reference oscillator frequency of the frequency transformer. The Assistant remains in the ACTIVE state upon completion of the action of adjust reference oscillator frequency .

DISABLE ASSISTANT command causes the microprocessor to turn off the frequency transformer by performing the action of disable frequency transformer . The assistant control channel modem remains ready to receive commands and information as the Assistant transitions from ACTIVE to SLEEP state.

In the active state GET STATUS command may result in the user equipment receiving a status message that provides information that the frequency transformer is not enabled. For example ENABLE ASSISTANT command may be sent from the user equipment through the assistant control channel modem for processing by the microprocessor.

However in some cases a TRANSFORMER DISABLED EVENT may occur. A TRANSFORMER DISABLED EVENT may occur because the microprocessor fails to perform the action of activate frequency transformer . For example without limitation the action of activate frequency transformer may occur because the battery level is too low for the transformer to function. In response to this failure the microprocessor sends transformer disabled status message to communicate the failure of the frequency transformer to activate to the user equipment. The transformer disabled status message may be sent to the user equipment in response to a GET STATUS command or automatically as a response to the processing of a TRANSFORMER DISABLED EVENT by the microprocessor. The TRANSFORMER DISABLED EVENT transitions the Assistant back to the SLEEP state from ACTIVE state.

Referring first to the user equipment may continuously poll or check the Assistant to determine the operational status of the Assistant. The Assistant may be inactive or in a null state such as null state where no commands are processed. The Assistant may be in sleep state such as sleep state and ready to process commands. The Assistant may be in active state such as active state and operational and responsive to commands. At block the user equipment sends a GET STATUS command to the Assistant to determine if the Assistant control channel modem is operational and ready to accept commands and waits for a response from the Assistant. At block the user equipment determines if the Assistant has sent status in response to the GET STATUS command.

The user equipment may not receive status from the Assistant. At block the user equipment determines that communication between the user equipment and Assistant is not possible and may alert a user of the non operational status of the Assistant. Communication may not be possible between the user equipment and the Assistant because the Assistant may be powered off or otherwise disabled. Manual user intervention may be required to perform a POWER ON event to activate the Assistant.

Responsive to a status response being received from the Assistant a check is performed at block to determine whether the Assistant is in a sleep state or mode. In sleep state the Assistant is operational and ready to accept commands and other information. A determination that the Assistant is in sleep state transitions the process to block where it is determined whether a request for a data transfer exists.

A determination that the Assistant is not in a sleep state means that the Assistant is in an active state and the frequency transformer is on and operational. In the active state the user equipment may send a DISABLE ASSISTANT command to the Assistant at a block . The DISABLE ASSISTANT command turns off or disables the frequency transformer and transitions the Assistant to the sleep state. From the sleep state the user equipment baseband and control processor checks for a data transfer request at block .

The request for data transfer at block checks a communication module such as communications module in to determine whether a data transfer request that requires the activation or enabling of the Assistant control channel modem is pending for the wireless network.

Responsive to a determination that a data transfer request is not pending at block it is determined whether the Assistant should be turned off or powered down. The Assistant may be turned off in conjunction with the user equipment being powered off or powered down. The Assistant may be powered down through a command that is sent from the user equipment through the Assistant control channel modem. The microprocessor processes the command to turn off or power down the Assistant.

For example responsive to a determination that the Assistant should be powered down at block a POWER OFF command is sent to the Assistant and the Assistant is turned off. In another embodiment the Assistant may also be powered down by a power off event.

It may be determined that the Assistant is not required to power down. At block responsive to a determination that the Assistant is not required to be powered down the process returns to block and monitors the status of the Assistant by sending a GET STATUS command to the Assistant and waiting for a response.

At block the user equipment may determine that an active radio request for data transfer exists that requires the activation of the Assistant. Referring now to at block the criteria for activation of the Assistant is checked. The criteria for activation of the Assistant may include but is in no way limited to signal quality metrics data throughput requirements and other similar criteria.

For example a radio frequency signal may be actively transmitting over a wireless radio link between the user equipment and the base station but the quality or strength of the radio frequency signal has degraded below a predefined threshold. For example the quality of the radio frequency signal may be negatively impacted or degraded during transmission by noise external interference or other factors known to one skilled in the art. The user equipment may determine that at or below this predefined threshold of signal quality the Assistant should always be used or enabled. The user equipment monitors the signal quality to determine whether activation of the Assistant is required.

A determination may be made by the user equipment to activate the Assistant. The Assistant is activated by the user equipment to receive the same radio frequency signal transmitted to the user equipment. The Assistant amplifies the radio frequency signal and transforms it to a second radio frequency for transmission to the user equipment. In an embodiment a data transfer request may require activation of the Assistant. In such a case the initiation of a data transfer triggers the request to enable the Assistant.

A determination at block that the criteria for Assistant activation are met results in an additional verification at block to determine whether the Assistant is active. A determination at block by the user equipment that the Assistant is active causes the operations related to the request for data transfer to continue at block with a number of checks and verifications. At block the user equipment verifies whether the channel setting of the Assistant is accurate and may adjust the channel setting by sending a CHANGE CHANNEL command to the Assistant at block . At block the user equipment may check the signal level setting of the Assistant. A CHANGE SIGNAL GAIN command may be sent to the Assistant control channel modem at block to adjust the signal gain level. At block the user equipment verifies whether the frequency offset of the Assistant is within the reference frequency of the user equipment. A command to adjust the frequency offset CHANGE FREQUENCY may be sent to the Assistant at block .

The user equipment may check the processing of the Assistant after each command processed through the control channel modem by the microprocessor. The user equipment may determine that status information from the Assistant is required at block . For example the user equipment may require status information on whether commands sent to the Assistant control modem were correctly executed on the Assistant.

The commands may include without limitation the command at a block that checks the channel setting of the Assistant the command at a block that checks the signal level from the Assistant and the command at a block that determines whether the frequency offset of the frequency transformer is within a specified target. The user equipment sends a GET STATUS command to the Assistant at a block . The status may be received from the Assistant at a block . At block a determination may be made to end the data transfer at a block or continually poll or check the Assistant at block to determine whether the criteria for Assistant activation is met.

The user equipment verifies whether the commands that verify the operation of the Assistant frequency transformer are correctly executed at block block and block . An incorrect execution of the commands may cause the user equipment to disable the processing of the Assistant. The user equipment sends a DISABLE ASSISTANT command at block to disable the frequency transformer and transition the Assistant to the sleep state. The process then continues to at a block where the user equipment verifies whether the technology in use requires the use of an Assistant.

In a determination at block that the Assistant is not active may cause the user equipment to attempt to activate the Assistant by sending an ENABLE ASSISTANT command at block . The user equipment verifies the success of the ENABLE ASSISTANT command at block by determining whether the Assistant is operational. An Assistant that is operational Assistant will allow the user equipment Assistant system to continue with the data transfer at block .

In an unsuccessful activation of the Assistant will cause the user equipment to verify at block whether the technology in use requires the use of an Assistant. A determination that the technology being used requires an Assistant results in the data transfer being terminated at block . A determination that the technology in use does not require an Assistant causes the data transfer to be continued at block .

Returning to at block a determination that the criteria for Assistant activation is not met results in the processing being transferred to block . At block an additional verification is performed to determine whether the Assistant is active or operational. A determination at block that the Assistant is active may cause the user equipment to send a DISABLE ASSISTANT command to the Assistant at block . At a block the user equipment determines whether to end the data transfer at a block or continually poll or check the Assistant at block to determine whether the criteria for Assistant activation is met.

A determination at block that the Assistant is not active results in the data transfer being continued at a block . At block a determination may be made to end the data transfer at block or continually poll or check the Assistant at block to determine whether the criteria for Assistant activation is met.

Processes may terminate at block with the end of a data transfer. At the termination of a process at block the user equipment returns to checking the status of the Assistant at block .

Referring now to a block diagram of user equipment is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. User equipment may be a mobile wireless communication device such as a mobile cellular device herein referred to as a mobile device that may function as a Smartphone which may be configured according to an information technology IT policy. User equipment may be configured to include all the functionality of a user equipment assistant system such as the user equipment assistant system depicted in instance .

User equipment includes communication elements in communication subsystem that may be configured to perform radio frequency translation functions similar to a radio frequency assistant such as radio frequency assistant of . Antenna system may configured to support multiple input multiple output technology. Antenna system may include a plurality of antennas for simultaneous radio frequency signal transmissions.

The term information technology in general refers to a collection of information technology rules in which the information technology policy rules may be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers mobile cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and such other communication devices.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices computer systems assistants through a network of transceivers. In the mobile device includes a number of components such as main processor that controls the overall operation of user equipment . Communication functions are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages across wireless link to wireless network .

Communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices such as antenna system without the use of the wireless network . For example communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . Short range communications may include for example without limitation radio frequency signals within a 2.4 GHz band or a 5.8 GHz band.

In this illustrative embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by for example without limitation Evolved Enhanced Data GSM Environment EEDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE and other standards applicable to multiple input multiple output technology. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future.

The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with wireless network represents one or more different radio frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications. Communication systems such as user equipment assistant system of are implemented by antenna system of communication subsystem . The user equipment assistant system is implemented between network and main processor and enables the mobile device to have a higher data rate and a higher throughput.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device may be a GSM GPRS EDGE wireless network in one illustrative implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. Examples of these networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS EDGE networks as mentioned above third generation 3G networks such as UMTS HSPA and also future fourth generation 4G networks such as such as LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax .

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device requires a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM module is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM module the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network .

By inserting the SIM RUIM module into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM module includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM module is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM module can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

An advantage of using the SIM RUIM module is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM module may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory . The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data voice communication applications antenna system and communication subsystem applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages.

Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system with which the mobile device communicates.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence which means that the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system with which the mobile device is authorized to interface.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities and other similar applications know to one skilled in the art.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the communication subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port may be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port may be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port may be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

In operation a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary I O subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard together with or without a telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed data item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein.

In one embodiment implementations of the technology described in this disclosure may include a computer readable medium of instructions capable of being executed by a processor. Examples of computer readable media include recordable type media such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a RAM CD ROMs DVD ROMs and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links wired or wireless communications links using transmission forms such as for example radio frequency and light wave transmissions. In another embodiment the computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for actual use in a particular data processing system. For example the instructions may include microcode hard wired controls or a combination thereof. Other implementations would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems and subsystems and described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules or techniques without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicated through some other interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

