---

title: Attendance tracking via device presence
abstract: Attendance tracking via mobile devices may be provided. Once a meeting begins, a plurality of mobile devices present at the meeting may be identified. An attendance report for a plurality of attendees at the meeting may be provided based on the presence of each of the identified plurality of mobile devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09123031&OS=09123031&RS=09123031
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09123031
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130426
---
Modern gatherings of students and professionals nearly always include those attendees mobile devices. For example employees bring their laptops tablets and cellular phones to meetings while students bring such devices to class. Conventionally there has been no way to leverage these habits to track attendance at required functions however and most situations continue to rely on self reporting of attendance or paper records.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

Attendance tracking via mobile devices may be provided. Once a meeting begins a plurality of mobile devices present at the meeting may be identified. An attendance report for a plurality of attendees at the meeting may be provided based on the presence of each of the identified plurality of mobile devices.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Attendees at educational and professional gatherings such as classes or meetings often have their mobile devices with them. These devices may allow for tracking and identification of those in attendance at such gatherings. For example each student in a class may log in to a wireless router e.g. a hotspot associated with the class and or may register their device with a communication signal such as a near field communication NFC wireless network radio frequency identifier RFID or Bluetooth signal as they enter the room. Professional attendees at a meeting may similarly register their presence. Other options for registering presence may include logging in to a specific application and or entering a code associated with the meeting into a web based form. For example attorneys at a continuing education conference may log into an application associated with their bar association or the conference host and enter a code associated the conference and or each session of the conference.

In some embodiments a geographical area may be defined around the meeting area e.g. a geo fence and devices associated with the attendees may report their GPS location as being within the geo fence. Conversely devices for expected attendees of the meeting may be queried when the meeting begins and or at various times before and or after the start time to identify the devices locations and determine whether the devices are present at the meeting location or not.

Safeguards against fraudulent attendance counts may also be provided. For example the mobile devices may require a personalized identification from each user such as password or security question answer. Devices equipped with the appropriate hardware may receive uniquely identifying biometric identification such as fingerprints images voiceprints and or retina scans. In some embodiments device locations may be triangulated to determine whether a single person is in possession of multiple devices that are registered as attendees.

In some embodiments an image of the attendees may be captured such as by a webcam camera video recorder a motion sensor e.g. a Microsoft Kinect device etc. The image may be analyzed to count the number of attendees and any discrepancy with the number of devices registering attendance may be investigated. For example someone actually in attendance may have forgotten their device or someone not in attendance may have sent their device with another attendee.

An attendance report detailing the attendees who are present and or expected attendees who were late and or absent may be prepared. These reports may be further collated to provide information over longer periods than a single meeting. For example attendance at each session of a conference may be tracked for the conference attendees or attendance at classes by a student over a day week month quarter semester year etc. may be reported.

In some embodiments a meeting management application may control the use of resources by devices via an electronic meeting and or other forms of electronic communication. The management application can identify multiple entities required as in attendance before communicating electronic content. An entity can include a logical representation of any participant in a meeting. The management application may identify a given entity based on any suitable criteria. Non limiting examples of suitable criteria include but are not limited to credentials associated with a particular user such as but not limited to a user name and or other identifier one or more identifiers associated with a computing device used to access the electronic meeting such as but not limited to a hardware identifier or network address of the computing device and or based on a pairing of a user credential and a device identifier. The required entities may be a subset of all entities authorized to access the electronic meeting. In the absence of all of the required entities communication of electronic content via the electronic meeting may be restricted and or disallowed.

Attendance at the meeting may comprise being physically present in the meeting location and or accessing the meeting remotely. A management application can authorize communication of the electronic content among the required entities and other authorized entities via the electronic meeting based on determining that each required entity is present in the meeting room and or accessing the meeting remotely.

Basic functionality of user device may be provided by an operating system contained in memory . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . Applications stored in memory may be executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and generated as output from the application s may be stored in memory and read by processor from memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application program at the time it was generated as a software application program. Data may be received via any of a plurality of communication ports A C of user device . Communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input component such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record user s and capture spoken words motions and or gestures such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user s .

Data generated by applications may be stored in memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of a display . Consistent with embodiments of this disclosure display may comprise an integrated display screen and or an output port coupled to an external display screen.

Memory may also comprise a platform library . Platform library may comprise a collection of functionality useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

User device may comprise a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a set top box a music player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console and or another device with like capability.

User device may store in a data store a device profile and a plurality of user preferences . Device profile may comprise an indication of the current position of user device and or indications of the hardware software and security attributes which describe user device . For instance device profile may represent hardware specifications of user device version and configuration information of various software program and hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may further comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of user device a date of last access by an IT representative a date of last service by the IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and usage of user device . Furthermore the device profile may comprise indications of the past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and the inventory accessed from such resources. User preferences may comprise a listing of factors that may affect the experience of the user. In particular user preferences may include indications of the user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources and combinations thereof.

The compliance server may comprise a policy store comprising a plurality of compliance rules and or policies that may be applicable to user device . While the policy store is shown as within the compliance server the policy store may alternately be within the user device and or remotely located on the file server and may be remotely updated periodically by compliance server according to common over the air OTA updating methods. Attempts by user device to perform certain functionality on user device may require user device to be in compliance with one and or more of the compliance policies rules. Depending on the sensitivity of a given functionality different compliance rules may be necessary to ensure that the functionality is adequately restricted. Some functionality may only require ensuring that the proper user is requesting the functionality. Other resources may require compliance with more stringent authorization rules such as determining whether the functionality is restricted during certain time windows. Accordingly user device and or compliance server may be operative to determine whether the user of user device is authorized to perform requested functionality at the time the user requests to perform such functionality.

In some embodiments an agent application executed on user device may make the compliance determination based on the device profile credentials and or user preferences. For instance the agent application may monitor calls by applications such as a web browser an e mail client and or a secure application on user device to the operating system of user device to determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality associated with a given compliance rule. Additionally the agent application on user device may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the agent application may instruct operating system on user device to disable the camera of user device in response to a determination that a compliance rule specifies that the camera cannot be used at the time of the request by the user device to operate the camera.

In some embodiments the agent application executed on user device may rely on compliance server to determine whether a given functionality request on user device is permitted according to the compliance rules. For instance the agent application may transmit a functionality request a device profile credentials and or user preferences to compliance server so that compliance server may determine whether user device seeks to perform functionality that may violate a given compliance rule. Additionally compliance server may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance compliance server may instruct the agent application on user device to instruct operating system to activate a VPN security profile prior to opening a document and or link.

In some embodiments the compliance rules may comprise device settings and or executable instructions that define which functionality the operating system of user device is authorized to perform. Furthermore the compliance rules may comprise a list of functions such as those provided by APIs associated with operating system and or platform library that may be treated as protected functions. Calls to these functions such as calls to retrieve login credentials may result in checks by user device and or compliance server for compliance with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments the agent may perform a set of ordered operations to accomplish a requested function. These operation sets may be defined by the user device and or compliance server and may comprise one and or more operations to determine whether the user device is in compliance with policies from policy store . The agent may control at least one respective computing resource of the user device . The operations may include configuring at least one respective computing resource of the user device such as restricting access to at least one resource managed by the agent .

The Network may comprise for example any type of wired and or wireless network such as a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN Ethernet fiber optic network and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the Network may be or include the Internet intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications cellular systems PCS infrared communications global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may identify a plurality of devices associated with the meeting. The absence or presence may comprise an associated user s physical presence at the meeting location and or electronic attendance such as via a teleconference or webcam session. Detection of the devices may take numerous forms such as whether the devices are logged into a particular server network and or wireless router hotspot whether the user is logged into an application associated with the meeting e.g. a classroom or conferencing application whether the device has registered and or been identified via a communication signal such as radio frequency identification RFID wireless networking Bluetooth and or near field communication NFC signal and or whether the device has submitted a code associated with the meeting.

For example a professor may have a code written on a blackboard associated with the day s lecture that the students may submit via a web page mobile application SMS e mail and or any other communication medium. For another example each attendee may tap their device against an RFID or NFC reader as they enter the meeting location. For yet another example devices within a geo fence associated with the meeting location may be polled such as over a wireless network for identifying information. As a further example user device may create an ad hoc network such as via 802.11 and or Bluetooth to which attendee devices may connect and identify themselves and or be identified by user device . In some embodiments devices may be detected at different times throughout the meeting s duration to determine whether any devices arrived late and or left early.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may correlate the identified devices to attendees. For example devices may comprise uniquely identifying information such as serial numbers text names MAC and or IP addresses assigned identifier numbers and or strings RFID chip codes etc. For another example the devices may submit identification information by transmitting an identify certificate and or having the user fill in a form via an application and or web page.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may create an attendance log. The log may be stored on user device and or transmitted to a network location such as file server and or compliance server . The log may comprise identification information for each device an identity of a correlated user and or the absence of any devices users expected to be in attendance. The log may also comprise information about any devices present that were not identified and or correlated with a known user. The log may also comprise information about any devices that arrived late or departed early.

In some embodiments the log may indicate whether the correlated identity is strongly trusted such as where each device submits an authenticated identity certificate requiring each attendee to enter an individually identifying characteristic such as a passcode and or biometric data weakly trusted such as where each device comprises a unique hardware identifier and or untrusted such as where the identity correlation comes from data submitted by the user e.g. via a web page form. In some embodiments the log may comprise a list of all invited and or expected attendees and whether an associated device was absent from the meeting. An interface for a meeting organizer e.g. a class professor may be provided to allow for manual entries to the log such as for students who forgot to bring their device.

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may identify any discrepancies between the identified devices and the correlated users. For example user device may receive an image of the attendees at the meeting and perform a count of the number of attendees to determine whether there are more devices than attendees or vice versa. The attendee devices may also be triangulated within the meeting location to determine whether one user may be carrying more than one device. For another example some and or all of the devices may be equipped with biometric sensors to verify that each device is associated with a unique and or authorized user. For yet another example devices equipped with microphones may be able to capture voices in attendance at the meeting. The voices may be used to provide a count of individuals at the meeting and or to identify the individuals present. Any discrepancies may be logged as described above with respect to stage .

From stage method may advance to stage where user device may prepare an attendance report. For example the log may be used to generate a list of all attendees present at the meeting. Logs may also be combined into reports such as by providing a teacher or school principal an overview of all students who were absent or late to a class over a particular time period such as a day week month term semester and or year. Method may then end at stage .

An embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing attendance tracking via device presence. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to determine that a meeting has begun identify a plurality of mobile devices present at the meeting and log the attendance of a plurality of attendees based on the presence of each of the identified plurality of mobile devices. The processing unit may be further operative to compare the identified plurality of mobile devices to a list of expected attendees determine whether a mobile device associated with at least one of the expected attendees is not present at the meeting and if so log the at least one of the expected attendees as absent. Identifying the plurality of mobile devices may comprise for example identifying devices present within a configured geographic area receiving a communication and or verification signal from each of the plurality of mobile devices. The processing unit may be further operative to receive a count of the plurality of attendees determine whether the count of the plurality of attendees differs from a count of the plurality of identified mobile devices and if so include the difference between the count of the plurality of attendees and the count of the plurality of identified mobile devices in the attendance report.

Another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing attendance tracking via device presence. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to identify a plurality of devices present at a meeting identify a number of attendees present at the meeting and prepare an attendance report for the meeting comprising a correlation between the plurality of devices present at the meeting location and the number of attendees present at the meeting location. The processing unit may be operative to receive a count of the number of attendees from an organizer of the meeting and or to receive a digital image of a location of the meeting and analyze the digital image to count the number of attendees present at the meeting. The processing unit may be further operative to determine whether the count of the number of attendees differs from a count of the plurality of devices and identify at least one discrepancy between at least one of the plurality of devices and at least one of the attendees. Being operative to identify the at least one discrepancy between the at least one of the plurality of devices and the at least one of the attendees may comprise the processing unit being operative to verify each of the attendees present at the meeting according to an authentication and compare each of the verified attendees to a profile associated with each of the plurality of devices. For example each device may have an identity profile and or contact record installed identifying the user. The profile may also comprise device and or user specific identifying information such as an identity certificate.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a system for providing attendance tracking via device presence. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to identify a plurality of registered devices present at a meeting identify a plurality of attendees present at the meeting and provide an attendance report for the meeting comprising a correlation between the plurality of registered devices present at the meeting location and the number of attendees present at the meeting location. The processing unit may be further operative to receive a plurality of authentications associated with the plurality of attendees associate the plurality of authentications with at least some of the plurality of attendees and determine whether at least one of the plurality of authentications is not associated with at least one of the plurality of attendees. The plurality of authentications may comprise for example a login a password a meeting code a fingerprint a retina scan a voiceprint biometric data an identity certificate and an image.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. The Figures above and their associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to the Figures are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of this disclosure as described herein.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

A number of applications and data files may be used to perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned processes are examples and a processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure may include electronic mail calendar and contacts applications data processing applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of this disclosure program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of this disclosure may for example be implemented as a computer process and or method a computing system an apparatus device or appliance and or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the elements described above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any element may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of this disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

All rights including copyrights in any code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

