---

title: Systems, methods, and computer program products for collecting and reporting sensor data in a communication network
abstract: A system for collecting and reporting sensor data in a communication network includes a microprocessor coupled to a memory and an electronic storage device. The microprocessor receives sensor data from sensors, and stores the sensor data for each sensor in the electronic storage device. The microprocessor also receives, via the communication network, a data reporting instruction defining a data reporting technique corresponding to the sensor data associated with one or more of the sensors. The data reporting instruction is stored in the electronic storage device, and the microprocessor transmits, to a trust mediator over the communication network, at least a portion of the sensor data based on the data reporting instruction. The trust mediator maintains an acceptable level of security for data throughout the communication network by adjusting security safeguards based on the sensor data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08955140&OS=08955140&RS=08955140
owner: American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
number: 08955140
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 640 183 filed on Dec. 17 2009 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to information security systems and more particularly to systems methods and computer program products for collecting and reporting sensor data in a communication network based on dynamic feedback.

With the proliferation of mobile communication devices such as mobile telephones financial account holders that have such devices have begun to use them to complete financial transactions. Enabling financial account holders to do so however poses unique security risks for financial account issuers particularly because security capabilities and risks vary widely across different mobile communication devices and different mobile communication networks. For example typical payment systems involve point of sale POS terminals that are usually owned and designed by either financial transaction issuers or merchants. In contrast because mobile communication devices are manufactured by various manufacturers and can be modified by third parties financial account issuers have less control and knowledge of the security capabilities and risks associated with them. This makes it more difficult to control the security of financial transactions that are completed using mobile communication devices. Security measures vary based on particular models of mobile communication devices thus compounding this inherent security risk.

The risk for financial account issuers is further complicated by the mobility of mobile communication devices. Each location in which mobile communication devices can be operated potentially has a different security environment. As a result different security measures for each location are necessary. For example bringing a mobile communication device into a foreign country may require the mobile communication device to roam on a foreign mobile communication network which has inherently different security risks capabilities and other characteristics.

Security designers perform a labor intensive and exhaustive analysis of the risks associated with each component of a new network in an attempt to safely interface their existing security system with the new network. The existing security system is often modified to accommodate the risks associated with the new network. This process takes a substantial amount of time and thus limits the speed with which financial account issuers can enter new markets that utilize mobile based financial transaction networks. As a consequence they can lose market share.

In addition security designers typically assume that all security characteristics and risks of the network components will remain static once the system is deployed. A typical security system thus utilizes a particular set of security measures deployed until the security system is taken offline and either replaced or modified. In other words if risks of the security system change for example by a breach of a security measure by an attacker a maintenance window or an outage must be realized to enable the security system to be modified to respond to a security breach patch or upgrade. Such a system cannot adapt dynamically to various detected feedback relating to changes impacting the security situation of the network. Typical security systems therefore lack the adaptability necessary to be suitable for mobile based financial transaction systems. Moreover the static security measures of typical security systems increase the ease with which internal and external attackers can circumvent the security measures. As payment and network systems adapt to next generation payment and communication the attacks and exploits will also evolve into next generation criminal exploits.

Notwithstanding the above mentioned security risks enabling mobile transactions is still a particularly attractive means for financial account issuers to enter the markets of non bankable countries where widespread POS infrastructure is neither available nor practical.

Given the foregoing it would be useful to be able to continuously detect changes in network security characteristics and adapt based on these detected changes to maintain an acceptable level of security for existing and new network connections including merchants customers and partners for visiting and home networks.

It also would be useful to enable business entities such as financial account issuers to enter new markets e.g. the mobile based financial transaction market with minimal modifications to their existing security system and to accept new risk scenarios with the ability to manage magnitude of exposure by network segment region issuer partner device and or account across numerous device and network types.

In addition it would be useful to enable the characterization of currently uncharacterized e.g. non domestic communication network components and or attributes to enable adaptation to the risks to maintain an acceptable level of security.

The present invention meets the above identified needs by providing systems methods and computer program products for collecting and reporting sensor data in a communication network.

Trust mediator agents which are associated with each network component continuously detect changes in the security characteristics of each network component using sensors and feed the detected changes back to a trust mediator. The trust mediator uses the feedback from the trust mediator agents to determine whether and how to modify currently running security safeguards in order to maintain an appropriate level of security. Modifications if any are communicated by the trust mediator to the appropriate network component via its associated trust mediator agent for implementation. The process is recursive and thus continuously adapts to changes in network security characteristics as they arise over time to strike a balance between the probability of loss plus magnitude of loss versus acceptable risk to enable business transactions to continue without disruption at an account level and or at a network component level.

A business entity e.g. a financial account issuer can integrate new communication networks having new security characteristics into their existing network without the need to perform an exhaustive and labor intensive upfront analysis to estimate the security impact a new communication network will have on their existing network. Instead the business entity can define rules such as a threshold of acceptable risk begin to communicate with the new network and enable their existing security system to detect and adapt to the security characteristics of the new network while maintaining the acceptable risk acceptance level. Time to market is reduced and the level of risk exposed to the business entity can be managed at a minimized level.

Users expectations regarding security measures are taken into account. Thus if a particular security measure is too inconvenient for a user the security measure is modified or disabled to a minimal level. This balances the risk acceptance of a firm with a convenience cost representing user or account holder countermeasure choice and provides the issuer and the account holder with firm acceptable transaction risk elasticity. Alternatively if the security measure provides too low a security level for the user to accept the security measure it is modified or replaced with a more rigorous security measure. The effect is to increase the propensity for user satisfaction and thus movement towards equilibrium of strategy and payoff for usage of the system based on time location and relevance and results in more efficient risk models to increase market share for the business entity.

In one embodiment a microprocessor coupled to a memory and an electronic storage device receives sensor data from sensors and stores the sensor data for each sensor in the electronic storage device. The microprocessor also receives via the communication network a data reporting instruction defining a data reporting technique corresponding to the sensor data associated with one or more of the sensors. The data reporting instruction is stored in the electronic storage device and the microprocessor transmits to a trust mediator over the communication network at least a portion of the sensor data based on the data reporting instruction. The trust mediator maintains an acceptable level of security for data throughout the communication network by adjusting security safeguards based on the sensor data.

Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is directed to systems methods and computer program products for collecting and reporting sensor data in a communication network which are now described in more detail herein in terms of an example mobile payment system. This is for convenience only and is not intended to limit the application of the present invention. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following invention in alternative embodiments e.g. general network security systems mass transit security systems home and business security systems etc. .

The terms user consumer account holder and or the plural form of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons or entities capable of accessing using being affected by and or benefiting from the present invention.

A merchant as used herein refers to any person entity distributor system software and or hardware that is a provider broker and or any other entity in the distribution chain of goods or services. For example a merchant can be a grocery store a retail store a travel agency a service provider an online merchant or the like.

A transaction account as used herein refers to an account associated with an open account or a closed account system. The transaction account can exist in a physical or non physical embodiment. For example a transaction account can be distributed in non physical embodiments such as an account number frequent flyer account telephone calling account or the like. Furthermore a physical embodiment of a transaction account can be distributed as a financial instrument.

An account account number or account code as used herein can include any device code number letter symbol digital certificate smart chip digital signal analog signal biometric or other identifier indicia suitably configured to allow a consumer to access interact with or communicate with a financial transaction system. The account number can optionally be located on or associated with any financial transaction instrument e.g. a rewards charge credit debit prepaid telephone embossed smart magnetic stripe bar code transponder or radio frequency card .

The terms financial account issuer account issuer and issuer and or the plural forms of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to those persons or entities that provide transaction account s to account holders. For example an issuer may be a credit card issuer a bank or any other financial institution.

In general transaction accounts can be used for transactions between the user and merchant through any suitable online or offline communication network such as for example a wired network a wireless network a telephone network an intranet the global public Internet and or the like. Additionally the user can complete transactions with the merchant using any suitable communication device such as a point of interaction device e.g. a point of sale POS device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a kiosk etc. a radio frequency enabled transaction card and or the like.

A financial transaction instrument also referred to as a payment device can be traditional plastic transaction cards titanium containing or other metal containing transaction cards clear and or translucent transaction cards foldable or otherwise unconventionally sized transaction cards radio frequency enabled transaction cards or other types of transaction cards such as credit charge debit pre paid or stored value cards or any other like financial transaction instrument. A financial transaction instrument can also have electronic functionality provided by a network of electronic circuitry that is printed or otherwise incorporated onto or within the transaction instrument and typically referred to as a smart card or be a fob having a transponder and an RFID reader.

The term safeguard security measure security safeguard and or the plural forms of these terms are used interchangeably throughout herein to refer to any process hardware software algorithm countermeasure or the like that increases security confidentiality and or integrity of data communicated over communication networks. For example a safeguard can be a key length an encryption decryption algorithm a checksum a hash function an access level a password requirement a fingerprint requirement or the like.

External network components include an external terminal which is any electronic communication device a consumer can use as an interface to complete a financial transaction with a merchant. Examples of types of financial transactions user may request include a purchase at a point of sale POS device a transfer of funds from an account of user to that of another user a mobile to mobile fund transfer a transfer of funds between two accounts commonly owned by user a request for data stored in one of internal network components in association with an account of user a request to modify data stored in one of internal network components in association with an account of user etc. For example external terminal can be a point of sale POS device a kiosk or a mobile communication device such as a mobile telephone a personal computer a POS device a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computing device a radio frequency enabled transaction card or the like.

Another external network component is a visiting network which is any electronic communication network that is communicatively coupled to external terminal and one or more internal network components . Example visiting networks include a mobile telephone carrier network an external payment network and or service a media network a Rich Site Summary RSS feed network a private network a public network a Bluetooth network an automated clearing house ACH network a peer to peer P2P network or the like.

Internal network components include a gateway which is communicatively coupled to visiting network . External terminal communicates with internal network components through visiting network . Gateway translates communication network protocols to enable proper communication between visiting network and internal network components . Gateway also includes any number of communication network modules depending on the characteristics of visiting network and internal network components . For instance gateway can include a firewall a network address resolution table a proxy for address translation a session border controller etc. all not shown .

Another internal network component is a security services module . Security services module is communicatively coupled to gateway and performs security functions such as encryption decryption key management and or any other functions suitable for ensuring the security confidentiality and or integrity of data communicated throughout system .

Another internal network component is home value module which includes a memory or other electronic storage device not shown that electronically stores information related to electronic assets owned by the issuer. For example home value can store data entries representing credit deposits loyalty points reward points media and the like. Each data entry of home value has a value base and an associated quantitative and or qualitative value that also are stored in the memory not shown and are used by trust mediator in order to assess security risks associated with that particular data entry.

Internal network components also include a value mediator which valuates electronic assets owned by an entity other than the issuer. These assets have a value base other than the value bases stored in home value . Value mediator thus enables quantification and exchange of value across different value bases. In addition by valuating these assets value mediator enables risk magnitude quantification associated with these assets to be computed by trust mediator . For example if the value of the transaction or commerce was an asset calculated by value mediator then this computed value is input to trust mediator to react by changing one or more protections countermeasures or policies related to the asset.

Trust mediator TM agents collectively are deployed on external terminal visiting network gateway security services module value mediator and home value module respectively. TM agents detect and assess security related information collected from one or more sensors corresponding to each respective network component and communicate this information to trust mediator . The sensors measure a physical quantity such as an electronic signal or other data and convert it into a signal which can be read by an observer and or by an instrument such as one or more of the TM agents or trust mediator . Trust mediator in turn communicates instructions to one or more of the TM agents to modify implementation of security safeguards. Trust mediator also assesses information received from the TM agents and determines whether and or how to modify security safeguards according to security and or trust mediation algorithms that can be singular or a summation of plural safeguards and countermeasures interchangeable based on security goals.

External terminal receives user input from user via input interface . Example input interfaces include a keypad a trackball a touch screen a microphone a mouse etc. Input interface forwards the received user input to processor for further processing. In the example shown in the user input is processed by processor to carry out financial transactions define user expectation of trust define user expectation of convenience etc. which are described below in further detail with reference to .

External terminal presents output to user via output interface . Example output interfaces include a graphical display an audio loudspeaker a light emitting diode LED etc. Output interface receives output from processor and communicates the output to user via a user interface such as a graphical and or audio interface to enable user to carry out financial transactions etc.

External terminal also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory is used by processor to store data and or instructions associated with running computer programs. External terminal also includes a storage device which stores data and or instructions associated with computer programs. Storage device which is sometimes referred to as secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. As will be appreciated storage device may include a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments storage device may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into the external terminal . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the external terminal .

In the example shown in storage device stores data and or instructions corresponding to one or more sensor s as well data and or instructions corresponding to TM agent . Processor may copy portions of the instructions corresponding to sensor and or TM agent from storage device to main memory for execution by processor . Each sensor measures a physical quantity and converts it into sensor data that is stored as a corresponding risk variable by TM agent in storage device . As described in further detail below with respect to TM agent communicates the risk variable to trust mediator based on data reporting instructions received from trust mediator .

External terminal also includes communication interface to provide connectivity to a network such as visiting network and or additional network s . As discussed below with reference to visiting network provides connectivity between external terminal and an issuer s internal network components enabling user to use external terminal to carry out financial transactions with an account issued by the issuer. Additional network s may include a Global Positioning System GPS network the Internet and or other proprietary networks.

In an embodiment where additional network s includes a GPS network communication interface may receive data from the GPS network relating to geographic positioning of external terminal . Communication network also enables software and data to be transferred between external terminal and other external devices not shown such as external sensors. Examples of communication interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communication interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communication interface . These signals are provided to and or from communication interface via a communications path such as a channel. This channel carries signals and may be implemented by using wire cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link an RF link and or other suitable communications channels.

A broad spectrum of risks are managed by dynamically measuring various risk factors using TM agents that are fed data from their associated sensors not shown as well as security related information retrieved from other information sources such as risk engines risk networks etc. Each sensor measures a physical quantity and converts it into a signal that is stored as a risk variable by the TM agents respectively and is forwarded to the trust mediator as necessary. Sensors and sensor data are described in more detail below with reference to .

At block one or more of TM agents collects data from one or more corresponding sensors and communicates the data in the form of risk variables to trust mediator . As described in further detail below with reference to TM agents report data to trust mediator by implementing specific data reporting techniques specified by trust mediator .

Other information communicated by TM agents to trust mediator includes data relating to safeguards currently deployed throughout system . Trust mediator uses this data to compute safeguard time which may also be referred to as protection time . In particular trust mediator computes safeguard time as the total amount of secure time time during which system is rendered secure provided by all the security safeguards that are currently in place in system from end to end. Once trust mediator computes safeguard time the computed value of safeguard time replaces the initialized value of safeguard time discussed above.

As described above TM agents communicate to trust mediator data relating to current security threats present throughout system . Trust mediator uses this data to compute attack time for the current threats. Attack time is an amount of time it would take for a detected threat to circumvent the currently running safeguards. For example if a particular encryption algorithm is used as the current safeguard then the attack time is the risk factor in time predicted for a computer with the average computing power to crack the protection mechanisms which can include the encryption algorithm pairing and or authentication using brute force or cryptanalysis methods. Once trust mediator computes the attack time the computed value of attack time replaces the initialized value of attack time discussed above.

User inputs data relating to user expectation of trust into processor via input interface . TM agent receives the data relating to user expectation of trust from processor and communicates this data to trust mediator via communication interface . Trust mediator uses this data to compute a user expectation of trust for user . User expectation of trust represents the level of protection required by user in connection with particular transactions and can be based on the type of transaction requested by user via external terminal . For example user may require a higher level of security and hence a higher safeguard time for transactions over a certain amount of money. Once trust mediator computes user expectation of trust the computed value of user expectation of trust replaces the initialized value of user expectation of trust discussed above.

TM agent also receives user input from external terminal relating to user expectation of convenience and communicates this information to trust mediator . Trust mediator uses this information to compute a user expectation of convenience for user . User expectation of convenience represents the maximum inconvenience that user will accept in association with safeguards. User expectation of convenience also is based on the type of transaction requested by user via external terminal . For example user may be unwilling to accept the inconvenience associated with requiring user to submit to a biometric identification process such as an iris scan for a transaction of . Once trust mediator computes user expectation of convenience the computed value of user expectation of convenience replaces the initialized value of user expectation of convenience discussed above.

TM agents communicate data to trust mediator relating to security threats of internal network components and external network components . Trust mediator stores this data in a memory not shown for use in quantifying security risk and determining the appropriate safeguards to counter the risk.

At block trust mediator compares the computed value of safeguard time to the computed value of attack time to determine whether the safeguard time provided by the currently running safeguards is less than the attack time. If trust mediator determines that the safeguard time is greater than or equal to the attack time then system is considered secure in other words there is no time period during which the system is exposed to threats. In this case the procedure continuously repeats block using updated information if any communicated at block from TM agents to trust mediator . In this way the procedure is recursive and is able to continuously and dynamically adapt to changes in security characteristics.

If trust mediator determines however that safeguard time is less than attack time then the procedure continues to block . At block trust mediator determines whether the current safeguard time satisfies the computed user expectation of trust and the computed user expectation of convenience. This determination includes comparing the computed safeguard time against both the computed user expectation of trust and the computed user expectation of convenience. Safeguard time fails to satisfy the user expectation of trust if the safeguard time provided by the currently running safeguards is less than the minimum security level user will accept for the transaction e.g. only requiring a mother s maiden name for a 10 000 transaction . Safeguard time also fails to satisfy the user expectation of convenience if the inconvenience associated with the currently deployed safeguards exceeds the maximum inconvenience user will accept for the transaction e.g. requiring an iris scan for a 5 transaction . If the trust mediator determines that the safeguard satisfies both user expectation of trust and user expectation of convenience then the procedure progresses to block .

At block user uses external terminal to input information relating to user expectation of trust user expectation of convenience and or safeguards as desired. Trust mediator stores and uses this information to compute an equilibrium point that optimally balances user expectation of trust and user expectation of convenience for user based on transaction characteristics. For example if the stored user expectation data indicates that user typically requires more rigorous safeguards higher safeguard time for transactions involving amounts above 1 000 than for those below 1 000 trust mediator uses more rigorous safeguards for transactions above 1 000 and less rigorous safeguards for transactions below 1 000. This increases user s satisfaction with system because both trust and convenience are optimized and personalized for individual users .

After block or block as the case may be the procedure progresses to block . If trust mediator determines at block that safeguard time satisfies user expectation of trust and user expectation of convenience then at block trust mediator enables disables and or modifies one or more safeguards according to the information input by user at block if any.

Alternatively if trust mediator determines at block that safeguard time fails to satisfy user expectation of trust and or user expectation of convenience then at block trust mediator enables disables and or modifies safeguards according to one or more trust mediation algorithm s .

Example safeguard modifications include increasing a key length changing an encryption algorithm changing an authentication method etc. Safeguard modifications help thwart attackers attempts to circumvent safeguards. For example changing an encryption key and or an encryption algorithm during run time increases the difficulty of an attacker successfully circumventing the encryption. Additional safeguard modifications associated with particular sensors are described below with reference to .

One variable that is used by trust mediator in determining whether and or how to modify safeguards for a transaction is the risk associated with transaction data electronic assets stored in and or communicated throughout system . Trust mediator computes risk as the product of a value magnitude of specific transaction data and the probability that the specific transaction data will be compromised.

The value of the specific transaction data is determined in one of two ways depending on the value base of the specific transaction data. If the transaction data is based on a value base stored in home value e.g. U.S. dollars euros etc. then home value computes the value of the specific transaction data based on that value base. Home value computes the value of the specific transaction data and communicates the value to trust mediator for computing the risk associated with the specific transaction data.

If the specific transaction data is based on a value base that is not stored in home value e.g. an unknown currency then value mediator computes the value of the specific transaction data using a valuation formula which could be supported by one or multiple value transitions to reach like terms and comparable mediation weights. Value mediator enables trust mediator to assess risk for values not based on value bases stored in home value and enables transfer of value across value bases. Inputs to the valuation formula include attributes of the specific transaction data as well as weighting factors corresponding to each of the attributes. Examples of the attributes of specific transaction data include an owner of the specific transaction data a time or location of the associated transaction a currency of the specific transaction data and the like.

As mentioned above if user has not yet used system to complete any transactions then initialized values of the attributes and the weighting factors are used in the valuation formula. Over time as user completes transactions using system the values of the attributes and the weighing factors are updated in the memory not shown and are used in the valuation and risk formula.

If the values of the attributes and weighting values converge over time then trust mediator uses the converged values of the attributes of a user s transactions to assess risk of future transactions. These converged values are used by trust mediator in computing the probability that specific transaction data will be compromised. For example if the converged values for user indicate that user typically enters transactions during a particular time and or at a particular geographical location then trust mediator increases the probability that specific transaction data will be compromised for any transaction from user that originates at a different time and or location than those indicated by the converged data. Conversely trust mediator decreases the probability that specific transaction data will be compromised for any transaction from user that originates at approximately the time and or location indicated by the converged data. Thus exposure to risk is minimized through continuous dynamic improvement and convenience equilibrium for user is maximized. Value mediator transmits the computed value of the specific transaction data to trust mediator for computing the risk associated with the specific transaction data.

As mentioned above trust mediator collects data from TM agents using various data reporting techniques such as polling based reporting. Trust mediator can also use polling based reporting to periodically poll TM agents and request data relating to detection time which is the time required for TM agents to detect threats. Trust mediator also keeps track of the reaction time which is the time taken for system to react to previously detected threats by implementing adjusted safeguards. If trust mediator determines that safeguard time is less than the product of the detection time and the reaction time then trust mediator increases the rate at which it polls TM agents to decrease the detection time.

From block the procedure progresses to block . At block trust mediator determines whether modifications to the safeguards determined at block satisfy the attack time the user expectation of trust and the user expectation of convenience. If the trust mediator determines that the safeguards fail to satisfy the attack time the user expectation of trust and or the user expectation of convenience then the procedure repeats block to further modify the safeguards as needed. If trust mediator determines that the safeguards satisfy the attack time the user expectation of trust and the user expectation of convenience then the procedure progresses to block .

If more than one safeguard e.g. protection method is selected for implementation by trust mediator then the total protection includes a sum of the multiple selected protection methods. In other words the protection is not one dimensional but instead is multi dimensional. That is multiple layers or dimensions of protection are provided which further reduces risk exposure.

In one embodiment each particular multi dimensional combination of protection methods selected represents a specific protection signature. Similarly each particular multi dimensional combination of security related information e.g. threats exploits attacks etc. communicated to trust mediator at block represents a specific attack signature. Rules are defined that match specific protection signatures to specific attack signatures. In this way when the detected attack signature changes trust mediator changes the protection signature to react accordingly. Thus multi dimensional protection is provided as a response to multi dimensional attacks.

In another embodiment the rules do not simply authorize or deny a transaction solely in response to detecting any particular one dimensional security threat. Instead the rules involve a summation of the current multi dimensional protection and attack signatures and a balance of the risk of loss against opportunity cost. In particular trust mediator computes a risk of loss associated with permitting a transaction to continue based on the summation of the current multi dimensional protection and attack signatures. Trust mediator then computes an opportunity cost associated with denying the transaction based on the current value of exposure e.g. the transaction amount .

The risk of loss is balanced against the opportunity cost using a table of rules. The table of rules defines for each value of exposure a threshold of a maximally permissible risk of loss. In response to a change in attack signature trust mediator can dynamically change the protection signature e.g. by using a stronger combination of protection methods but is limited to selecting a protection signature that results in a risk of loss within the maximally permissible risk of loss for the current value of exposure. If for the current attack signature and value of exposure no protection signature exists in the protection matrix that can keep the risk of loss within the maximally permissible risk of loss then trust mediator may deny the transaction. The risk of loss is thus balanced against the opportunity cost so as to minimize exposure to risk while also minimizing interruptions to commerce.

In one respect denying a legitimate 10 transaction may be considered the same loss of value as a theft of 10. By implementing the balancing rules not only are losses due to theft minimized but losses due to denials of legitimate transactions also are minimized.

Trust mediator can also include time as a factor in computing the risk of loss and the opportunity cost. For instance in computing the risk of loss trust mediator computes a period of time during which the current protection signature will remain effective against the current attack signature.

In addition rather than enforcing the thresholds of maximally permissible risks of loss for each individual transaction the thresholds can be enforced for averages of multiple transactions completed over time. For instance trust mediator can compute a running average of the risks of loss for multiple transactions. If multiple transactions having a risk of loss appreciably lower than the maximally permissible risk of loss are accumulated then trust mediator may permit a transaction having a risk of loss higher than the maximally permissible risk of loss so long as the running average of the risk of loss does not exceed the maximally permissible risk of loss. In this way an acceptable average risk of loss is maintained while permitting the completion of transactions that may have otherwise been deemed too risky.

At block the trust mediator communicates the safeguard modifications e.g. protection method s to one or more of the TM agents . For instance the trust mediator communicates changes in safeguards relating to security services to security services module to implement the new security services and safeguards e.g. a different encryption decryption algorithm . In this case the safeguard modification is sent to at least two network components namely the component that performs the encrypting of data and the component that performs the decrypting of data. In one embodiment security services module implements security applications based on the Diameter protocol and or other authentication authorization and accounting or AAA protocols.

From block the procedure repeats block with new information communicated from TM agents at block if any exists. In this way the procedure is recursive and thus is able to continuously and dynamically adapt to changes in the security situation as they arise over time and or the particular location of external terminal . User can thus use external terminal to complete financial transactions using system while experiencing an adaptive level of security that is both effective and convenient. Moreover issuers can enable consumers to use their financial transaction accounts over their mobile telephones to complete transactions in various geographical locations while maintaining an adaptive level of security that is effective and not over burdensome for user .

With reference to and sub process shows an exemplary procedure for collecting sensor data from sensor s and updating risk variables in storage . Sensor data in this context may also include security related information retrieved by trust mediator and or one or more of TM agents from risk engines risk networks and other information sources as discussed above. Initially processor retrieves computer program instructions corresponding to TM agent from storage and loads the instructions into main memory for execution. At block processor initializes risk variable s stored in storage based on the computer program instructions corresponding to TM agent

At block processor receives sensor data and or other security related information from sensor s . Sensor data is used by trust mediator as input into one or more risk models to compute risk related to a particular transaction. One exemplary risk model defines risk as the product of a magnitude of loss and a probability of loss associated with a particular transaction. As described above with reference to the magnitude of loss is computed by trust mediator based on data received in association with value mediator and home value . The probability of loss is computed based on among other things sensor data. That is sensor data is used by trust mediator in computing the probability that a specific transaction will be a loss and this computation impacts the computation of the overall risk for the transaction. By using sensor data to compute an overall risk for the transaction trust mediator can adjust a risk policy by modifying safeguards as necessary to maintain an acceptable level of risk.

Systems and may contain numerous types of sensors that sense corresponding types of physical quantities and or data to provide trust mediator with as complete a set of inputs as possible for computing risk. Regardless of the type of sensor each sensor provides sensor data to one or more of TM agents and the sensor data is converted into a signal that is stored in a corresponding risk variable which in turn is communicated to trust mediator . At block processor updates risk variable s stored in storage based on sensor data received from sensor s . Sub process is then repeated so as to maintain up to date risk variable s in storage .

In some cases a sensor may be unable to provide up to date data to one or more of TM agents because for example the sensor is malfunctioning user has not input the type of data that the sensor is configured to sense the sensor is not applicable to the type of transaction requested by user or the like. In the event that a sensor malfunctions and fails to report data to one or more of TM agents the corresponding TM agent transmits to trust mediator data indicating that the sensor is malfunctioning. For example this data can be included in a header field associated with a risk variable. If a sensor is not malfunctioning but is unable to provide up to date information for another reason the corresponding TM agent transmits to trust mediator data indicating that the sensor data is not up to date. This data can be included in an additional header field associated with a data packet carrying a risk variable. The corresponding TM agent can determine whether sensor data from a particular sensor is up to date based on a predetermined time threshold such that data that was collected at a time that exceeds the predetermined time threshold is no longer considered up to date. In this way trust mediator implements a security policy by collecting data to the extent possible from sensors and their associated TM agents 

One example type of sensor is a tactile sensor that converts pressure electrical and or electromagnetic phenomena such as vibrations into a signal that is stored in a corresponding risk variable. An exemplary tactile sensor is a biometric sensor that senses and converts a physical characteristic of a human such as user into a value that is stored in another risk variable. The biometric sensor converts a fingerprint of user into data that is used to authenticate the identity of user . In addition one or more tactile sensors can be incorporated into and or coupled onto external terminal to periodically sense data relating to the geometry of how user holds and or moves external terminal . The geometric data is used by TM agent and or trust mediator to compute and store a geometric signature corresponding to user . TM agent and or trust mediator compares the periodically sensed geometric data to the stored geometric signature to authenticate the identity of user .

Another type of sensor is a speed sensor that converts speed to a value that is stored in another risk variable. The speed sensor stores in a risk variable speed data indicating a speed at which external terminal is traveling. Trust mediator uses the speed data to determine the likelihood of whether successive transactions originating from distinct locations are fraudulent or are due to the traveling of user .

Another type of sensor is an accelerometer that senses and converts orientation vibration and or shock into a value that is stored in another risk variable. The accelerometer is incorporated into and or coupled onto external terminal to periodically sense data relating to the acceleration of external terminal due to repositioning of external terminal by user . The acceleration data is used by TM agent and or trust mediator to compute and store an acceleration signature corresponding to user . TM agent and or trust mediator compares the periodically sensed acceleration data to the stored acceleration signature to authenticate the identity of user .

Still another type of sensor is a software sensor such as sensor s shown in that senses changes in usage of external terminal based on e.g. data inputted into external terminal data outputted by external terminal etc. and stores the result in another risk variable. Sensor is described in further detail below with reference to .

As discussed above in addition to sensor data security related information is collected and aggregated by trust mediator from risk engines risk networks and other available information sources. Risk engines and risk networks retrieve security related information from other sources and provide the information to users to inform them of various ongoing security risks. Examples of risk engines and or risk networks include RSA Risk Engine McAfee Threat Center Symantec Threatcon and ESET Virus Radar. Examples of other information collected by trust mediator include statistics from the U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency and statistics from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Security related information from these types of information sources are collected and aggregated across multiple providers and then translated by using application programming interfaces APIs integrated into trust mediator and or one or more of TM agents to manage a dynamic risk policy. Trust mediator and or one or more of TM agents also use one or more web crawlers to browse the Internet to retrieve security related information.

As discussed above trust mediator and or one or more of TM agents aggregate information of multiple distinct types. For example financial transaction related information is aggregated with information unrelated to financial transactions. If only transaction related information were monitored then a security system may determine that a cardholder shopping in multiple geographically distant locations in a relatively small period of time is fraudulent by assuming that the cardholder could not have traveled so far so quickly. Trust mediator however by aggregating the transaction related data along with data retrieved from e.g. the cardholder s mobile phone records indicating calls originating from locations corresponding to the transaction locations can determine that the transactions are less likely to be fraudulent.

Upon collecting and aggregating security related information from risk engines risk networks etc. trust mediator and or one or more of TM agents filter the security related information according to one or more filter criteria. The security related information is then translated according to one or more translation and or valuation algorithms to obtain like terms and comparable mediation weights. The security related information is then funneled into one or more statistical models to compute risk score s corresponding to specific transactions and or to specific protection mechanisms and the like. Trust mediator manages the dynamic risk policy by making specific security decisions such as enabling a specific protection mechanism based on these computed risk score s .

As those skilled in the art will recognize other types of sensors and or information sources can be used and still be within the scope of the invention.

As shown in external terminal may communicate with a GPS network via communication interface . In this case sensor collects geographic position data also referred to as location data of external terminal from the GPS network and stores it in a corresponding risk variable which is communicated to trust mediator according to data reporting instructions as described below. Trust mediator uses location data in various ways to compute the probability that certain transaction s will be a loss fraudulent .

In one aspect trust mediator stores time data and location data received in connection with multiple transactions for a particular external terminal . Trust mediator analyzes the stored time data and location data by comparing them to the time data and location data received in connection with a new transaction to determine the probability that the new transaction is fraudulent. For instance trust mediator may determine that there is a high probability that the new transaction is fraudulent if the location data received for the new transaction is vastly different than that of the stored location data of a previous transaction and the time between the two transactions is too minimal to reasonably believe that user has traveled between the two locations.

Trust mediator can also enable user to register one or more geographic regions as safe regions for external terminal such that the trust mediator can implement less strict security policies for transactions carried out in these regions using external terminal . For example user may register his or her state of primary residence as a safe region. In a similar aspect trust mediator enables user to register one or more geographic regions as dangerous regions for external terminal such that the trust mediator can implement more strict security policies for transactions carried out in these regions using external terminal . For example user may register a state in which rampant identity theft has been reported to be a dangerous region. Movement slightly inside a dangerous region does not necessarily cause a transaction to be denied. Instead in conjunction with other criteria such as a quantity of fraudulent transactions that have been reported as having originated near the location of external terminal trust mediator computes a new risk factor. If the new risk factor exceeds a predetermined threshold trust mediator denies the transaction.

In addition trust mediator can store data representing the quantity of fraudulent transactions that have occurred or that have been reported based on location e.g. any delineated geographic region such as a country a state a territory a custom delineated geographic region etc. . Trust mediator analyzes location data received in connection with a new transaction determines a region to which the location corresponds and determines the quantity of fraudulent transactions that have occurred been reported in that region. Trust mediator implements a more strict security policy for transactions carried out using external terminal in a region of high fraudulent transactions than those carried out in a region of low fraudulent transactions. Trust mediator may store multiple predetermined risk tiers that each correspond to a specific range of quantities of reported fraudulent transactions. Trust mediator may then implement predefined security policies for transactions based on the specific risk tier to which the transactions correspond.

Also sensor s can sense data inputted into external terminal to determine a type of transaction requested by user . Examples of types of transactions user may request include a purchase at a point of sale POS device a transfer of funds from an account of user to that of another user a mobile to mobile fund transfer a transfer of funds between two accounts commonly owned by user a request for data stored in one of internal network components in association with an account of user a request to modify data stored in one of internal network components in association with an account of user and the like. If user initiates a new transaction trust mediator may increase or lower the level of the implemented security policy by modifying the appropriate security safeguards based on the type of transaction indicated by the corresponding risk variable.

Additionally sensor s can sense payload data inputted into external terminal to determine which portions of messages are encrypted and if so which specific encryption algorithm was used to encrypt each encrypted message portion. Trust mediator receives this data in the form of risk variables from TM agent and uses this data along with similar data received from one or more of TM agents to identify the vulnerable data paths of the system and determine their impact on the probability that a certain transaction will be a loss. Data paths between certain network terminals may have different inherent vulnerabilities than others. Similarly certain encryption methods may have different inherent vulnerabilities than others. A certain block of data may for example be encrypted for transmission from external terminal to visiting network and then be decrypted for transmission between visiting network and gateway . Trust mediator uses this payload data in determining how to modify safeguards to implement an acceptable security policy. For example trust mediator may communicate instructions to one or more of TM agents to encrypt data according to specific algorithms which may be different from data path to data path. That is one encryption algorithm may be used between external terminal and visiting network while a different encryption algorithm is used between visiting network and gateway . Alternatively one encryption algorithm can be used for multiple data paths while different keys are used for each data path.

Sensor s also can sense pairing data inputted into external terminal to enable trust mediator to perform a pairing of external terminal and user . Trust mediator uses pairing data to verify that user is authorized to use external terminal and to ensure that user is not for example a thief who has stolen external terminal and is attempting to carry out fraudulent transactions. Trust mediator begins to perform a pairing process by presenting via output interface a request for user to input pairing data. Once trust mediator receives the pairing data the pairing data is compared with other data stored in trust mediator in connection with external terminal and an associated financial account to determine the probability that a certain transaction will be fraudulent. Example data that trust mediator may request from user includes an amount of the last successful transaction a location of the last successful transaction personal identification information etc. If trust mediator determines that the response s to the request s are unsatisfactory trust mediator may notify user that an e mail message including a code will be sent to the e mail address on record for user and that user must input this code into external terminal to continue the transaction.

Trust mediator can adjust the pairing requests made to a specific user based on time data and location data received from external terminal . For instance if trust mediator determines that there is a high probability that a new transaction is fraudulent because the location data received for the new transaction is vastly different than that of the stored location data of the previous transaction and the time between the two transactions is too minimal to reasonably believe that user has traveled between the two locations then trust mediator may increase the security level of the pairing requests made to user .

Sensor s can sense data inputted into external terminal to determine whether the data has been fraudulently modified at some point throughout the data path. For example trust mediator can instruct external terminal and or other terminals to use a hash function to compute hashes associated with data at specific points throughout systems and . Sensor s then perform their own hash computation on specific data to ensure that the hash matches the data. Trust mediator may use different hash functions at different points throughout systems and . Alternatively trust mediator may alternate between several hash functions at a predetermined time interval. This sensing technique can also be used by sensor s to detect a covert channel which are sometimes implemented by modifying lower order bits in digital messages to carry a covert message. For example sensor s may also use this technique to determine whether specific data was inputted via input interface such as a keyboard or via a covert channel. Trust mediator uses this technique and the associated sensor data and or risk variables to compute the probability that a particular transaction will be fraudulent.

Sensor s also can sense native application data stored in storage device in connection with a native application to determine whether the native application has been signed with a digital signature. This technique can be used to ensure the authenticity of the native application to ensure that the native application has not been forged and or tampered with and to provide non repudiation of messages. Trust mediator uses the data relating to native application data signatures to compute the probability that a particular transaction will be a fraudulent.

Additionally sensor s can sense data communicated via communication interface to determine whether there is more than one active communication session per user . Sensor s monitors the establishment and the tearing down of communication sessions to ensure that only one communication session is open at a given time. Trust mediator uses this technique to detect eavesdropping covert channels etc. and if necessary to modify the safeguards as appropriate.

Sensor s can sense data communicated via communication interface so that TM agent and or trust mediator can perform traffic analysis on the data. In particular sensor s intercepts data and examines it to determine patterns which may be used to deduce information associated with the data. Trust mediator uses this sensor data and or risk variables to compute the probability that a particular transaction will be fraudulent. For example trust mediator may compare patterns determined for data communicated via communication interface to patterns known to be associated with malicious software.

In addition sensor s can sense attempts made via communication interface to access honeypot data stored in storage device so that TM agent and or trust mediator can monitor and or record information relating to the attackers of systems and . The honeypot data has no production value is separated from legitimate data stored in storage device and may be accessed via a dedicated open proxy. Any attempts to access the honeypot data therefore can be assumed to be malicious acts of attackers. Trust mediator uses risk variables relating to the honeypot data to compute the probability that transaction s carried out with a particular external terminal will be fraudulent.

Sensor s can sense password attempt data inputted by user into external terminal to log password attempts. Trust mediator uses the password attempt data and or the associated risk variables to compute the probability that a particular transaction will be fraudulent. For example if the number of password attempts exceeds a certain predefined threshold trust mediator may prevent external terminal from being used to carry out transactions until user contacts an account issuer and authenticates his or her identity.

Also sensor s can sense data stored in storage device to create a brokered trust between multiple local parties via a communication protocol such as Bluetooth near field communication NFC and or any other suitable wired or wireless communication protocol. Once two or more users are authenticated TM agent and or trust mediator uses location data of the corresponding external terminals collected by sensor s from GPS network to determine the probability that the two or more users are in relatively close proximity to each other.

If it is determined that the two or more users are in relatively close proximity to each other TM agent and or trust mediator can establish a trust between the corresponding two external terminals by for example providing each external terminal with a token such as a key. The token is used to establish confidentiality and integrity between the members of the trust. The current members of the trust can also vote to broker other external terminals into a trust chain. For example a trust can be brokered between a first merchant at which user has completed a previous transaction and a second merchant at which user is attempting to complete another transaction. If the POS device of the second merchant has lost connection with their payment network the transaction can be completed using the payment network of the first merchant and the two merchants can settle the transaction between each other once the second merchant has reestablished connection with their payment network.

Sub process shows an exemplary procedure for receiving and updating data reporting instructions from trust mediator . At block processor initializes variables that correspond to data reporting instructions in storage . The initialization is performed based on computer program instructions included within TM agent . The data reporting instructions define data reporting techniques to be used by TM agent to report data to trust mediator . In particular the data reporting instructions define for each risk variable and or cluster of risk variables an indication of whether the risk variable and or cluster should be reported to trust mediator and if so the specific data reporting technique to be used. Different data reporting instructions may be used for individual risk variables and or clusters of risk variables.

Data reporting instructions also define one or more clusters of risk variables. As discussed above each external and internal network component and has one or more associated sensors feeding data to the respective TM agent and the data is stored in a corresponding risk variable. The one or more risk variables associated with a particular network component can be grouped into clusters to derive one or more risk spaces for the network component. Different clusters and or risk spaces can be derived by using different risk variables and or different data reporting techniques based on various data reporting factors. For example the cluster of risk variables for a particular network component can be dynamically changed by one or more of TM agents or by trust mediator based on the instant condition e.g. environment location speed etc. .

As mentioned above trust mediator receives data from TM agents using various data reporting techniques e.g. event based reporting polling based reporting cluster based reporting and or sampling rate based reporting etc. . Where event based reporting is implemented TM agents detect events and in response to any of TM agents detecting an event the corresponding TM agent communicates updated data related to the event to trust mediator . Example events that TM agents can detect include the connecting of external terminal to visiting network the receipt of a request by external terminal connected to visiting network to complete a financial transaction the receipt of a request to associate a new external terminal with a financial account of user a change in a condition such as the time or location of external terminal etc. Other events detectable by TM agents include the receipt of specific sensor data from sensors. The other TM agents either in parallel or in response to a detection made by TM agents and can detect events such as the presence of a security threat associated with any of the internal and external network components and the safeguards currently in place for internal and external network components and information input by user via external terminal regarding expectation of safeguards etc.

Where polling based reporting is implemented trust mediator periodically polls one or more of TM agents for updated data at a rate determined by trust mediator to be appropriate. For example trust mediator may poll TM agent for data as to the location of external terminal requesting multiple transactions. If data from TM agent indicates a random shopping pattern because external terminal is moving rapidly across different external network components e.g. because user is on a moving train trust mediator can signal the other TM agents about this activity and poll more frequently.

Sampling rate based reporting can be implemented. Data for each risk space is collected at a predetermined sampling rate from the sensors in the cluster by the respective TM agent . Sampling rates can be modified based on the instant condition and or based on security goals e.g. goals regarding protection time detection time and reaction time which are further described below . TM agents communicate the data for each risk space to trust mediator at a rate corresponding to the sampling rate.

In addition data for each risk space can be communicated by one or more of TM agents to trust mediator as a running summation of measurements collected over a predetermined integration time period also referred to as running summation based reporting . The integration time period can also be modified based on various data collection and or reporting factors. For example if the sample rate is set to 2 sample per second and trust mediator sets a 10 second integration period for a particular TM agent then trust mediator will receive summations of every consecutive 20 samples from the corresponding TM agent 

Data for each risk space also can be periodically communicated to trust mediator in bursts of data also referred to as block measurement . The intervals between the block measurements can also be modified based on data collection and or reporting factors. TM agents and or trust mediator can normalize the data that produces each risk space by computing a weighted and or a non weighted sum of the data from the sensors in the cluster.

At block processor receives data reporting instructions from trust mediator via communication interface . At block processor stores the data reporting instructions in storage in association with TM agent overwriting the initialized data reporting instructions with those received from trust mediator . Sub process is then repeated so as to maintain up to date data reporting instructions in storage . In this way the data reporting techniques and or use of the various risk variable data points and clusters are determined dynamically by trust mediator . For example trust mediator can change the clusters of risk variables for each network component and or change the above mentioned data reporting techniques and or rates based on detected risks goals e.g. protection time detection time and reaction time and or other dynamic factors e.g. data communicated to trust mediator from one or more of TM agents . This provides system with a greater adaptability and versatility when compared to typical security system network agents which deny or grant access to network resources based on the current protection mechanisms. TM agents use the sensors to detect any risk factors that impact a risk profile for each network component and in response to the sensing can not only deny or grant access based on the current protection mechanisms but can also assist in changing the protection mechanisms so that access and commerce can continue. In this way process is dynamic in nature as opposed to typical network security processes which are static in nature.

Sub process shows an exemplary procedure for communicating risk variables to trust mediator . At block TM agent communicates risk variable s stored in storage to trust mediator based on the data reporting instructions stored in storage . In this manner risk variable s are continuously updated based on sensor data and are communicated to trust mediator in a manner controlled by trust mediator . This enables trust mediator to manage a risk policy as described in further detail above with respect to .

The present invention e.g. systems processes or any part s or function s thereof can be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof and can be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems. However the manipulations performed by the present invention were often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of the present invention. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operation of the present invention include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

In fact in one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. An example of a computer system is shown in .

Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Various software embodiments are described in terms of this exemplary computer system. After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the invention using other computer systems and or architectures.

Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on the display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and can also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory can include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory can include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices can include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such can include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which can be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and can be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium computer readable medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage drive a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and or signals . These computer program products provide software to computer system . The invention is directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the present invention. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system .

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software can be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions of the invention as described herein.

In another embodiment the invention is implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s .

In yet another embodiment the invention is implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures illustrated in the attachments which highlight the functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it can be utilized and navigated in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the foregoing Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way. It is also to be understood that the steps and processes recited in the claims need not be performed in the order presented.

