---

title: System linearization assembly and method for use in modifying distortion components
abstract: A system linearization assembly generally includes a filter that is coupled to a measuring device. The filter is configured to receive a signal that includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non-linear intermodulation distortion, such as an odd-order intermodulation distortion component. The filter is also configured to isolate at least one harmonic of the frequency components with the same order as the component caused by non-linear intermodulation distortion. The measuring device is configured to measure at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic. The system linearization assembly also includes a controller coupled to the measuring device. The controller is configured to modify, for example by minimizing, the signal from the determined measurement to facilitate a modification, such as a reduction, of the component caused by non-linear intermodulation distortion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09425751&OS=09425751&RS=09425751
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 09425751
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131125
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 09 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The embodiments described herein relate generally to systems that effect a transfer function on an input signal to produce an output signal that ideally has a predetermined relationship to the input signal such as amplifier systems and more particularly to a system linearization assembly that may be used with such signal handling systems.

Signal processing systems such as amplifier systems are configured to modify or change at least one parameter of a signal. For example an amplifier system may be configured to receive an input signal and to increase the amplitude of the signal preferably without inducing other changes to the signal in the process. The amplified signal or the output signal can then be transmitted to a transmission line or to an antenna for example.

However at least some amplifier circuits and similar systems exhibit at least some form of nonlinear behavior which may result in a distortion of the amplified or output signal. Such a distortion may decrease the overall performance of the amplifier system. For example a harmonic distortion in an electronic amplifier introduces abnormalities in the output signal at the fundamental input frequency w and at multiples of the input frequency 2w 3w etc. that constitute the inherent distortion. Some harmonic distortion can be filtered out by using bandpass filters. Intermodulation distortions IMD however include the difference of the frequencies in the output and can be difficult to filter out of the amplified or output signal. More specifically in the case of two closely spaced input signals wand w the resulting intermodulation IMD component frequency for a 3order intermodulation IM3 and other odd terms is immediately adjacent to the signals. When the resulting IMD component frequency is immediately adjacent to the signals in the frequency spectrum it can be difficult to filter out. The intensity of an norder intermodulation distortion component is proportional to the intensity of the norder harmonic distortion component provided the impedance of the output circuit is the same at both frequencies.

At least some methods have been proposed for linearization of amplified or output signals. For example one method is known as the power backoff method. The idea is to reduce the amplifier gain when the input amplitude becomes large so as to avoid driving the amplifier output into distortion. A related technique is to boost the gain at low input amplitude to keep the amplified signal above a noise background level. Such techniques control distortion and noise at the expense of amplification efficiency. Other known methods include pre distortion and post distortion methods to cancel the effect of the amplifier s non linearity.

These conventional methods seek to minimize the adverse effects of the non linearity but fail to correct the nonlinearity of the amplifier itself. Instead such methods merely cover or patch the non linearity such that the adverse effects of the non linearity can be less apparent.

In one embodiment a system linearization assembly is provided. The system linearization assembly generally includes a filter that is coupled to a measuring device. The filter is configured to receive a signal that includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion. The filter is also configured to isolate at least one harmonic of the frequency components with the same order as the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion. The measuring device is configured to measure at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic. The system linearization assembly also includes a controller coupled to the measuring device. The controller is configured to modify such as by minimizing the signal from the determined measurement to facilitate a modification such as a reduction of the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion.

In another embodiment a signal processing system is provided. The signal processing system generally includes a signal modifying device that is configured to receive a signal from a signal source. The signal modifying device is also configured to modify the signal to generate a modified output signal ideally having a predetermined relationship to the signal from the signal source such as a linearly amplified copy of the signal wherein the modified output signal includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion. The signal processing system also includes a system linearization assembly that is coupled to the signal modifying device. The system linearization assembly includes a filter that is coupled to a measuring device. The filter is configured to receive the modified output signal. The filter is also configured to isolate at least one harmonic of the frequency components with the same order as the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion. The measuring device is configured to measure at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic. The system linearization assembly also includes a controller coupled to the measuring device. The controller is configured to modify such as by minimizing the signal from the determined measurement to facilitate a modification such as a reduction of the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion.

In yet another embodiment a method for modifying distortion components is provided. The method generally includes receiving a signal that includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion via a filter. At least one harmonic of the frequency components with the same order as the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion is isolated via the filter. A measurement of at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic is determined via a measuring device that is coupled to the filter. The identified harmonic is modified such as by minimization based on the determined measurement to facilitate a modification such as a reduction of the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion via a controller that is coupled to the measuring device.

The embodiments described herein include a system linearization assembly that can be used with signal processing systems such as an amplifier system to facilitate substantially reducing or minimizing non linear intermodulation distortion components within the signals produced by the system. The system linearization assembly is configured to receive a signal such as a modified or amplified signal wherein the signal includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion. The system linearization assembly is further configured to isolate at least one harmonic of frequency components such as at least one odd numbered harmonic with the same order as the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion. The system linearization assembly is also configured to determine a measurement of at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic and to modify the signal based on the determined measurement. Such a modification facilitates a reduction or minimization of the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion from the signal processing system by modifying the signal processing system itself rather than merely covering or patching the non linear intermodulation distortion component to hide its effects.

System includes an input device or an input bias tee that is configured to receive a signal from a signal source such as an antenna not shown . In some embodiments the signal can be a radio frequency RF signal that is being transmitted from the antenna at a frequency ranging from about 10 Kilohertz to about 300 000 Megahertz. In the exemplary embodiment input bias tee is configured to combine the RF signal with an electrical bias signal such as a direct current DC voltage. Input bias tee can also be configured to combine alternating current AC signals with DC signals and or to combine the AC components from the DC components and or to combine higher and lower frequency components.

A signal modification device such as an amplifier is coupled to input bias tee . Amplifier is configured to alter the input signal according to a transfer function such as to apply a gain factor to multiply the voltage or current or numerically digitized amplitude of a signal received from input bias tee to generate a modified output signal such as an amplified signal. It should be noted that as used herein the term couple is not limited to a direct mechanical and or an electrical connection between components but may also include an indirect mechanical and or electrical connection between two or more components or a coupling that is operative through intermediate elements or spaces. Amplifier includes a transistor such as a field effect transistor FET or a bipolar junction transistor BJT wherein transistor is configured to be biased at an optimum voltage for amplification of the signal received from input bias tee . The modified output signal or the amplified signal may include a time varying parameter such as a plurality of waves representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion that can be introduced into the signal during the amplification.

In the exemplary embodiment an output device or an output bias tee is coupled to amplifier . Output bias tee is configured to transmit the modified output signal or the amplified signal from amplifier to a system linearization assembly that is coupled to output bias tee . As explained in more detail below with respect to system linearization assembly is configured to facilitate modifying or minimizing the non linear intermodulation distortion component such as an odd order intermodulation distortion based on the parameter s of at least one harmonic of the waves of the modified output signal.

System also includes a plurality of power supplies. For example system includes a first power supply that is coupled to system linearization assembly and to input bias tee and system also includes a second power supply that is coupled to system linearization assembly and to output bias tee . In the exemplary embodiment first power supply is configured to supply DC voltages to input bias tee and second power supply is configured to supply DC voltages to output bias tee . As explained in more detail below with respect to system linearization assembly is configured to control first power supply and second power supply such that the voltages being supplied to input bias tee and output bias tee respectively can be adjusted as a means to amplify or attenuate or merely to follow the signal level as passing through the input and output bias tees . This bias control can be configured as a voltage based control as mentioned or in other embodiments that control can be based on current bias variable resistance numeric scaling etc.

During operation of system at least one signal such as an RF signal is generated by a signal source such as an antenna not shown . The signal is transmitted from the antenna to input bias tee . Moreover power supply transmits a voltage such as a DC voltage to input bias tee . As such input bias tee is enabled to combine the recently received signal with the voltage. When the signal is combined with the voltage a quiescent operating gate voltage V is set for the amplifier. Amplifier then modifies the signal by amplifying the power of the signal and the amplified signal is transmitted to output bias tee such that the signal can be transmitted to system linearization assembly .

The amplified signal includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion. Amplifier exhibits some level of non linear behavior which distorts the output signal. Odd ordered intermodulation nonlinearity IM3 IM5 etc. is of particular concern because noise and other interference can become mixed with the signal within the amplifier passband. However there are naturally occurring nulls in the output powers of the nodd ordered intermodulation IM3 IM5 etc. that occur when the weighted mean of the nderivative of the amplifier voltage transfer curve is zero. Moreover the output powers and position of naturally occurring nulls of these intermodulation components are dependent on a drain source voltage quiescent voltage bias V and a gate source voltage quiescent voltage bias V . As such the 3order intermodulation IM3 can be substantially reduced when the 3derivative of the amplifier voltage transfer curve is zero. Therefore as explained in more detail below with respect to system linearization assembly monitors the odd numbered harmonic intensity of the amplified signal and adjusts amplifier bias voltages to minimize or substantially reduce the odd order intermodulation distortion intensity i.e. the non linear intermodulation distortion component .

In the exemplary embodiment a measuring device is coupled to filter via conduit and measuring device is configured to receive at least one signal from filter that is representative of the isolated harmonic s hereinafter referred to as the harmonic signal . Measuring device is also configured to have an input impedance such that the harmonic intensity such as the harmonic power measured after the filter is substantially proportional to the harmonic intensity or harmonic power of the at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion after the filter . Measuring device is also configured to determine a measurement of at least one parameter of the harmonic signal. For example in the exemplary embodiment measuring device can be a radiometer that is configured to measure or determine the power or the amplitude of the harmonic.

System linearization assembly also includes a controller that is coupled to measuring device via conduit . Controller is further operatively coupled to vary the operation of first power supply shown in and second power supply shown in as a function of values determined from measuring device such as the power or amplitude value of the harmonic signal. More specifically controller may be coupled to for example at least one controllable voltage regulator not shown in first power supply and at least one controllable voltage regulator not shown in second power supply . Controller is enabled to facilitate operative features of the controllable voltage regulators via features that include without limitation receiving permissive inputs transmitting permissive outputs and transmitting opening and closing commands.

In the exemplary embodiment controller may be a real time controller and may include any suitable processor based or microprocessor based system such as a computer system that includes microcontrollers reduced instruction set circuits RISC application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic circuits and or any other circuit or processor that is capable of executing the functions described herein. In one embodiment controller may be a microprocessor that includes read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM such as for example a 32 bit microcomputer with 2 Mbit ROM and 64 Kbit RAM. As used herein the term real time refers to outcomes occurring in a substantially short period of time after a change in the inputs affect the outcome with the time period being a design parameter that may be selected based on the importance of the outcome and or the capability of the system processing the inputs to generate the outcome. In this embodiment the signal may be represented by time division samples of the amplitude or samples of the amplitude at discrete frequency bands which characterize the input and measured output signals numerically.

Controller in the exemplary embodiment includes a memory device that stores executable instructions and or one or more operating parameters representing and or indicating an operating condition of first power supply and second power supply . Controller also includes a processor that is coupled to memory device via a system bus . In one embodiment processor may include a processing unit such as without limitation an integrated circuit IC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a microcomputer a programmable logic controller PLC and or any other programmable circuit. Alternatively processor may include multiple processing units e.g. in a multi core configuration . The above examples are exemplary only and thus are not intended to limit in any way the definition and or meaning of the term processor. 

Moreover in the exemplary embodiment controller includes a control interface that is coupled to first power supply and to second power supply . More specifically control interface is coupled to the controllable voltage regulators within first power supply and within second power supply and control interface is configured to control an operation of the controllable voltage regulators. For example processor may be programmed to generate one or more control parameters that are transmitted to control interface . Control interface may then transmit a control parameter to modulate open or close the controllable voltage regulators.

Various connections are available between control interface and first power supply and second power supply . Such connections may include without limitation an electrical conductor a low level serial data connection such as Recommended Standard RS 232 or RS 485 a high level serial data connection such as USB a field bus a PROFIBUS or Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 a k a FIREWIRE a parallel data connection such as IEEE 1284 or IEEE 488 a short range wireless communication channel such as BLUETOOTH and or a private e.g. inaccessible outside system network connection whether wired or wireless. PROFIBUS is a registered trademark of Profibus Trade Organization of Scottsdale Ariz. IEEE is a registered trademark of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. of New York N.Y. BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. of Kirkland Wash.

During operation the modified output signal or the amplified signal having a time varying parameter such as a plurality of waves representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as an intermodulation distortion component is transmitted from output bias tee to system linearization assembly . As explained in more detail below with respect to filter receives the output signal and isolates at least one harmonic of the frequency components signal. More specifically filter isolates the harmonic with the same order as the non linear intermodulation distortion component. The isolated harmonic is generally an odd numbered harmonic such as the third harmonic. Measuring device measures or determines at least one parameter of the harmonic such as the power or amplitude of the harmonic. Measuring device is also configured to have an input impedance such that the harmonic intensity or harmonic power measured after the filter is substantially proportional to the harmonic intensity or harmonic power of the at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion after the filter. Based on the determined measurement controller adjusts the voltages being supplied to input bias tee and to output bias tee by controlling the first power supply and second power supply respectively. When the voltages are adjusted the harmonic is modified for example by being minimized or substantially reduced. Because the harmonic signal is substantially proportional to the non linear intermodulation distortion component then as the harmonic is modified for example by being minimized or substantially reduced the intermodulation distortion i.e. the non linear intermodulation distortion component is also minimized or substantially reduced.

In step filter isolates at least one harmonic of the frequency components shown in . The isolated harmonic is generally an odd numbered harmonic such as the third harmonic. More specifically as described above odd order intermodulation nonlinearity IM3 IM5 etc. is of particular concern. Moreover the 3harmonic intermodulation component is usually the largest. As also described above there are naturally occurring nulls in the odd ordered intermodulation IM. IM etc. output powers that occur when the weighted mean of the nth derivative of the amplifier voltage transfer curve is zero and the output powers are dependent on drain source voltage quiescent voltage bias V and a gate source voltage quiescent voltage bias V .

Filter then generates a signal that is representative of the isolated harmonic i.e. the harmonic signal . More specifically in step filter separates the isolated harmonic from the modified output signal or the amplified signal to generate the harmonic signal. Filter transmits the harmonic signal to measuring device shown in in step . In step filter transmits the modified output signal or the amplified signal which is still distorted with for example IM3 to a separate port not shown and can later be transmitted to for example an antenna not shown or to a transmitter not shown or other output.

In step measuring device receives the harmonic signal. In step measuring device determines the measurement of at least one parameter of the harmonic signal. For example measuring device determines or measures the power or amplitude of the harmonic signal. In some embodiments measuring device is configured to have an input impedance such that the harmonic intensity measured after the filter is substantially proportional to the intensity of the at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion after the filter. In some embodiments measuring device can also be phase sensitive. For example the phase of the harmonic signal can change by 180 degrees when the minimum value of the harmonic amplitude is reached and or crossed. If measuring device is phase sensitive and this phase information is passed or transmitted to controller shown in controller can gain an additional way of knowing which direction to adjust the bias voltages to minimize the harmonic signal. In step measuring device generates a signal representative of the measured value and in step measuring device transmits the signal of the measured value to controller shown in .

In step controller receives the signal of the measured value. Based on the measured value controller modifies the output signal by adjusting the voltages being provided to input bias tee shown in and output bias tee . More specifically based on the measured value controller generates control signals in step . These control signals are directed at controlling the controllable voltage regulators not shown within first power supply shown in and second power supply shown in such that voltages i.e. DC voltages being supplied by first power supply to input bias tee and by second power supply to output bias tee can be adjusted. In step controller transmits the control signals to first power supply and to second power supply via control interface shown in . For example based on the measured value controller can generate control signals to decrease the power supply. As such the control signals adjust the controllable attenuators in first power supply and second power supply such that the power supply being transmitted to input bias tee and to output bias tee respectively is substantially reduced. This reduction would cause the identified harmonic to decrease or be minimized. Since the identified harmonic i.e. the third harmonic and the non linear intermodulation distortion component i.e. IM3 are substantially proportional then by decreasing or minimizing the harmonic the non linear intermodulation distortion component is also decreased or minimized.

As compared to known systems such as amplifier linearization systems that merely cover or patch non linear intermodulation distortion components within signals to compensate for the effects of the non linear components the embodiments described herein provide a system linearization assembly that can be used with such systems to facilitate a reduction or minimization of the non linear intermodulation distortion components from the system itself. The system linearization assembly is configured to receive a signal such as a modified or amplified signal wherein the signal includes a time varying parameter representing a plurality of frequency components including at least one component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion such as odd order intermodulation distortion. The system linearization assembly is further configured to isolate at least one harmonic of frequency components such as at least one odd numbered harmonic with the same order as the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion. The system linearization assembly is also configured to determine a measurement of at least one parameter of the isolated harmonic and to modify the signal based on the determined measurement. Such a modification facilitates a reduction or minimization of the component caused by non linear intermodulation distortion from the signal processing system itself rather than merely covering or patching the non linear intermodulation distortion component to hide its effects.

Exemplary embodiments of the assemblies systems and methods are described above in detail. The assemblies systems and methods are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein but rather components of the assemblies systems and or steps of the method may be utilized independently and separately from other components and or steps described herein. For example the assembly may also be used in combination with other systems and methods and is not limited to practice with only a system as described herein. Rather the exemplary embodiment can be implemented and utilized in connection with many other systems.

Although specific features of various embodiments of the invention may be shown in some drawings and not in others this is for convenience only. In accordance with the principles of the invention any feature of a drawing may be referenced and or claimed in combination with any feature of any other drawing.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal language of the claims.

