---

title: Methods and devices for providing warnings associated with credentials to be stored in a credential store
abstract: Methods and devices for providing a warning associated with credentials to be stored in a credential store on a computing device are disclosed herein. In one broad aspect, the method comprises receiving a request to store, in the credential store, at least one credential for a specified service, determining whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available, associating the specified service with a level of security based on at least one of an availability of the secure connection or one or more properties of the secure connection, and providing a warning in response to determining that at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential for the specified service and is for a service that is associated with a level of security different from the level of security with which the specified service is associated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384342&OS=09384342&RS=09384342
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09384342
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130510
---
Embodiments described herein relate generally to managing credentials e.g. passwords stored by applications on a computing device.

A device may access a variety of different websites through a web browser. Some of these websites may control access to services and data by requiring users to set up an account and to complete a login process which typically involves supplying an appropriate username and password. These websites may include social media sites e mail or other messaging services sites photo sharing sites online shopping sites banking sites sites that provide access to corporate or other data servers and so on.

Some applications including web browser applications for example will allow login data such as usernames and passwords to be saved on users computing devices. This may enhance user convenience as users need not memorize or manually enter login data for different accounts. Users may choose to configure their applications to retrieve stored login data and populate corresponding input fields automatically when the user is prompted for this data e.g. in a web browser .

To enhance security for stored login data on a computing device a keyring application or service may be employed. A keyring may also be referred to as a keychain a wallet a password store or password manager or more generally a credential store or credential manager. A keyring may allow for the secure storage of data such as usernames passwords cryptographic e.g. encryption keys access codes digital certificates and other secure data items for multiple applications and services typically by storing the data in encrypted form. In some keyring implementations a user may need to enter a separate password that has been specifically assigned to the keyring in order to unlock the keyring i.e. allow access to data stored by the keyring .

While the keyring is unlocked certain applications e.g. potentially restricted to those applications considered trustworthy by the user may be permitted access to data stored by the keyring. Accordingly a user need not login separately to services for which passwords are stored in an unlocked keyring since any application that is permitted access to the corresponding login data in the unlocked keyring may automatically retrieve that login data to authenticate the user for those services.

When selecting a username and password combination to be associated with an account for a given service users are often encouraged to avoid using simple passwords that can be easily guessed by an attacker. Certain services may prevent users from choosing a password that is not sufficiently complex. Password complexity rules may be enforced during the setup of an account requiring users to choose a password for the account that for example is of a minimum character length begins or does not begin with certain characters ends or does not end with certain characters contains a minimum number of each of one or more character types e.g. alphabetic numeric symbolic etc. By selecting a sufficiently complex password to be associated with the account protection for the account may be enhanced as it makes it difficult for an attacker to guess the password using brute force methods.

Although account security may be enhanced by enforcing these password complexity rules when selecting a password for a given account the selected password can be difficult for the user to remember. Accordingly some users may be inclined to reuse passwords for multiple accounts so that they need only memorize a small number of passwords.

Various services can be accessed over the Internet or other network. Some services are configured to permit user access over a secured connection e.g. a Secure Sockets Layer SSL connection or Transport Layer Security TLS connection while other services may permit user access over a connection that is not secured e.g. not encrypted . For example when a device visits a website where a secure communication protocol is used to protect communications between a user s computing device and a website s associated web server the web address displayed in the user s web browser may display an https prefix. Some other indicator may also be displayed within the browser interface e.g. a locked padlock icon a LOCK text indicator etc. . Different levels of security e.g. 128 bit encryption 256 bit encryption etc. may also be applied with respect to different secured connections.

Not all computing device users are savvy enough to appreciate that if their account on a less secure site is compromised e.g. a password used to access the less secure site is stolen the information that an attacker might gain could be used in a subsequent attack against more secure services. For example if the password that a user has selected for a service that does not require a secure connection to be established for user access e.g. there may be little personal data associated with the user account considered necessary to secure is stolen the password could then be used by an attacker to access the account of the user for a highly secure service e.g. an online banking service without authorization if the user happened to select the same password for both services.

While user convenience may be enhanced by selecting matching credentials e.g. passwords for different accounts and different services there are potential security risks. On the other hand requiring users to select different credentials for every different account may be unduly cumbersome and inconvenient.

At least some embodiments described herein generally relate to methods of providing warnings to users when credentials e.g. passwords are to be stored in a credential store on a computing device. For example when a user attempts to save a credential for a non secure site or service in the credential store and a corresponding credential for a secure site or service is already stored in the credential store a warning may be provided to the user that selecting the credential for use with the non secure site or service may put data associated with the secure site or service at risk. A similar warning may be provided when the user attempts to store a credential for a secure site or service in the credential store where a corresponding credential for a non secure site or service is already stored in the credential store.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments while the use of matching credentials is not prevented the user is notified when credentials have been selected that might be used for different sites or services associated with different levels of security. This allows the user to take action e.g. select different passwords for the more secure services in order to minimize the risk of compromise to secured data.

In one broad aspect there is provided a method of providing a warning associated with credentials to be stored in a credential store on a computing device the method comprising receiving a request to store in the credential store at least one credential for a specified service determining whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available associating the specified service with a level of security based on at least one of an availability of the secure connection or one or more properties of the secure connection and providing a warning in response to determining that at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential for the specified service and is for a service that is associated with a level of security different from the level of security with which the specified service is associated.

In some embodiments the providing comprises outputting a notification that indicates a risk of compromise to data associated with one or more secure services.

In some embodiments the method further comprises responsive to providing the warning prompting for user input as to whether to proceed with storing the at least one credential for the specified service in the credential store and storing the at least one credential for the specified service in the credential store in response to receiving user input to proceed with storing.

In some embodiments the method further comprises storing in association with the at least one credential in the credential store an indicator of the level of security with which the specified service is associated.

In some embodiments the method further comprises periodically determining whether the level of security with which the specified service is associated has changed to a different level and updating the indicator in response to determining that the level of security with which the specified service is associated has changed to the different level.

In some embodiments the method comprises in response to the storing disabling an auto fill function in a user interface of the computing device when the at least one credential for the specified service is expected to be received as user input in the user interface. In some embodiments the method comprises disabling an auto fill function in a user interface of the computing device when any credential that is stored in the credential store and that corresponds to the at least one credential for the specified service is expected to be received as user input in the user interface.

In some embodiments the method comprises in response to providing the warning providing an option to cancel the request. In some embodiments the method comprises in response to providing the warning providing an option to prompt for at least one different credential for the specified service to request to store in the credential store.

In some embodiments the specified service is associated with a secure level if the secure connection is available and with a non secure level if the secure connection is unavailable. In some embodiments the specified service is associated with a secure level if the secure connection is available and is of a minimum strength and with a non secure level otherwise.

In some embodiments the method further comprises polling the specified service to determine whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available. In some embodiments the polling is performed without user intervention in response to receiving the request.

In some embodiments the secure connection comprises at least one of a Transport Layer Security TLS connection or a Secure Sockets Layer SSL connection.

In some embodiments the one or more properties of the secure connection comprises at least one of a strength of the secure connection a key exchange algorithm type a bulk encryption algorithm type a server authentication algorithm type or a message authentication code MAC algorithm type.

In some embodiments the associating the specified service with the level of security is performed in accordance with a security policy governing operation of the computing device.

In some embodiments the at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential associated with the specified service if the at least one credential stored in the credential store matches the at least one credential associated with the specified service. In some embodiments the at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential associated with the specified service if the at least one credential stored in the credential store is determined to be sufficiently similar to the at least one credential associated with the specified service.

In some embodiments the at least one credential for the specified service comprises a password. In some embodiments the at least one credential for the specified service comprises a username.

In at least one broad aspect there is provided a method device and computer readable medium for providing a warning associated with credentials to be stored in a credential store on a computing device the method comprising receiving a request to store in the credential store at least one credential for a specified service determining whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available associating the specified service with a level of security based on at least one of an availability of the secure connection or one or more properties of the secure connection determining a first entropy rating for the at least one credential for the specified service for each credential stored in the credential store that is for a service associated with a same level of security as the level of security with which the specified service is associated determining a second entropy rating for the credential determining a relative entropy rating for the at least one credential for the specified service the relative entropy rating comprising a function of the first and second entropy ratings and outputting the relative entropy rating.

In some embodiments the relative entropy rating is output in the form of at least one of a graphical icon a numerical value or a text descriptor.

In some embodiments the method further comprises responsive to outputting the relative entropy rating prompting for user input as to whether to proceed with storing the at least one credential for the specified service in the credential store and storing the at least one credential for the specified service in the credential store in response to receiving the user input to proceed with storing.

In some embodiments the method comprises in response to outputting the relative entropy rating providing an option to cancel the request. In some embodiments the method comprises in response to outputting the relative entropy rating providing an option to prompt for at least one different credential for the specified service to request to store in the credential store.

In another broad aspect there is provided a computing device programmed to provide a warning associated with credentials to be stored in a credential store the computing device comprising a processor configured to receive a request to store in the credential store at least one credential for a specified service determine whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available associate the specified service with a level of security based on at least one of an availability of the secure connection or one or more properties of the secure connection and provide a warning in response to determining that at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential for the specified service and is for a service that is associated with a level of security different from the level of security with which the specified service is associated.

In another broad aspect there is provided a computer readable storage medium comprising executable instructions for programming a computing device to provide a warning prior to storing credentials in a credential store on the computing device the instructions configuring a processor of the computing device to receive a request to store in the credential store at least one credential for a specified service determine whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available associate the specified service with a level of security based on at least one of an availability of the secure connection or one or more properties of the secure connection and provide a warning in response to determining that at least one credential stored in the credential store corresponds to the at least one credential for the specified service and is for a service that is associated with a level of security different from the level of security with which the specified service is associated.

Reference is made to a mobile device in for illustration purposes. At least some embodiments described herein may be more generally applicable to other electronic devices which may or may not have voice communication capabilities. Furthermore embodiments described herein may be generally applicable to other computing devices including desktop computing devices laptop computing devices netbooks tablet computing devices etc.

In the example of a block diagram of a mobile device is shown generally as . Mobile device comprises a number of components the controlling component typically being microprocessor . Microprocessor controls the overall operation of mobile device . In some embodiments certain communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network .

In this example implementation of mobile device communication subsystem may be configured for cellular communication in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. Other standards such as Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS may be employed. These standards are mentioned as examples only and other standards may be employed on computing devices to which embodiments described herein are applied. The described embodiments are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future.

In this example implementation the wireless link connecting communication subsystem with network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

The wireless network associated with mobile device may comprise a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation of mobile device however other wireless networks may also be associated with mobile device in variant implementations. Different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and n generation e.g. 2.5G 3G 3.5G 4G etc. networks like EDGE UMTS High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA and Long Term Evolution LTE etc. Some older examples of data centric networks include the Mobitex Radio Network and the DataTAC Radio Network. Examples of older voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

Microprocessor typically also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM flash memory display auxiliary input output I O subsystem serial port keyboard one or more speakers microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example display and keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over network and device resident functions such as a calculator media player or task list. Operating system software used by microprocessor is typically stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the operating system specific device applications e.g. illustrated as applications in or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM .

In some embodiments mobile device may send and receive communication signals over network typically after network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is generally associated with a subscriber or user of a mobile device . To identify a subscriber mobile device may require a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM card to be inserted in a SIM interface in order to communicate with a network. SIM is one type of a conventional smart card used to identify a subscriber of mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without SIM mobile device would typically not be fully operational for communication with network .

By inserting SIM into SIM interface a subscriber can access subscribed services. Services could include for example web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS media transfers such as music downloading or streaming and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include for example point of sale field service and sales force automation. SIM may include its own processor and memory for storing information. Once SIM is inserted in SIM interface it is coupled to microprocessor . In order to identify the subscriber SIM contains some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI for example. An advantage of using SIM is that subscribers are not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. SIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. In certain embodiments SIM may be a different type of user identifier and may be integral to mobile device or not present at all. By way of further examples a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC eUICC Embedded UICC Removable User Identify Module R UIM CDMA Subscriber Identify Module CSIM or Universal Subscriber Identify Module USIM may be employed.

Mobile device includes a power pack that supplies power to electronic components and that supports portability. The power pack may be of any type but for clarity it will be assumed that mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists battery in providing power V to mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to mobile device . In variant implementations the mobile device may be solar powered.

Microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on mobile device . A set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed in flash memory or other non volatile storage on mobile device during its manufacture.

Additional applications see e.g. applications in may also be loaded onto mobile device through network auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or the other device subsystems . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using mobile device . Numerous other types of applications may be loaded onto mobile device or other computing devices including without limitation messaging applications e.g. e mail text instant video etc. voice communication applications calendar applications address book applications utility applications browser application media player e.g. audio video etc. applications social network applications camera applications gaming applications productivity applications etc. The functionality of any number of these applications may also be integrated into or accessed via a single application. For example messaging services social networking services and banking services may be accessed via one application e.g. a browser application .

Serial port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

It should be noted that the term download and forms thereof are used generally herein to describe a transfer of data from one system to another and is not intended to be limiting with regards to the origin or destination of the transfer for example. Accordingly where the term download and forms thereof are used in the specification and in the claims it is intended to encompass other forms of transfers including for example an upload or a sideload of data e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB sideload .

Short range communications subsystem provides for wireless device connections to enable communication between mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of network . For example subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication would include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Near Field Communication NFC Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE e.g. Wifi .

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by communication subsystem and input to microprocessor . Microprocessor will then process the received signal for output to display or alternatively to auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using keyboard in conjunction with display and possibly auxiliary I O subsystem . Auxiliary I O subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with a dynamic button pressing capability. Further auxiliary I O subsystem may comprise a two dimensional navigation or scrolling component such as a track ball a joystick or a directional pad each optionally with a dynamic button pressing capability. Keyboard is an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. A composed item may be transmitted over network through communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals would be output to the one or more speakers and signals for transmission would be generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or other audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the one or more speakers display may also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information. Microphone can receive a supply of power in the form of a bias voltage and bias current from the rechargeable battery . Different types and configurations of microphone can be incorporated into the mobile device .

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating components of a host system in one example configuration is shown. Host system will typically be a corporate office or other local area network LAN but may instead be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In this example host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which a user of mobile device belongs.

LAN comprises a number of network components connected to each other by LAN connections . For instance a user s desktop computer for the user s mobile device may be situated on LAN . Mobile device may be coupled to computer by a serial or a USB connection for example. Other user computers may also be situated on LAN . Information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications between mobile device and LAN may be loaded from user computer to mobile device and this may include information loaded to mobile device during an initialization of mobile device for use. The information loaded to mobile device may include certificates used in the exchange of messages. User computers will typically be also connected to other peripheral devices not explicitly shown in .

Only a subset of network components of LAN are shown in for ease of exposition and LAN will typically comprise additional components not explicitly shown in . More generally LAN may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example of .

In this example mobile device communicates with LAN through a node of wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to LAN may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of LAN may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server .

In a variant implementation LAN comprises a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the LAN and mobile device . Use of a wireless VPN router implies that a VPN connection can be established directly through a specific wireless network to mobile device . A wireless VPN router may be an off the shelf VPN component not requiring a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure to be used. A VPN connection may be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection that delivers messages directly to mobile device .

Secure communication protocols rely on public and private encryption keys to provide confidentiality and integrity and on a Public Key Infrastructure PKI to communicate information that provides authentication and authorization. Data encrypted using a private key of a private key public key pair can only be decrypted using the corresponding public key of the pair and vice versa. Private key information is never made public whereas public key information is shared.

For example if a sender wishes to send a message to a recipient in encrypted form the recipient s public key is used to encrypt a message which can then be decrypted only using the recipient s private key. Alternatively in some encoding techniques a session key may be generated and used to encrypt the body of a message typically with a symmetric encryption technique e.g. Triple DES . The session key is then encrypted using the recipient s public key e.g. with a public key encryption algorithm such as RSA which can then be decrypted only using the recipient s private key. The decrypted session key can then be used to decrypt the message body. The message header may be used to specify the particular encryption scheme that must be used to decrypt the message. Other encryption techniques based on public key cryptography may be used in variant implementations. However in each of these cases only the recipient s private key may be used to facilitate decryption of the message and in this way the confidentiality of messages can be maintained.

As a further example a sender may sign a message using a digital signature. A digital signature generally comprises a digest of the message e.g. a hash of the message encrypted using the sender s private key which can then be appended to the outgoing message. To verify the signature of the message when received the recipient uses the same technique as the sender e.g. using the same standard hash algorithm to obtain a digest of the received message. The recipient also uses the sender s public key to decrypt the digital signature in order to obtain what should be a matching digest for the received message. If the digests of the received message do not match this suggests that either the message content was changed during transport and or the message did not originate from the sender whose public key was used for verification. By verifying a digital signature in this way authentication of the sender and message integrity can be maintained.

An encoded message may be encrypted signed or both encrypted and signed. The authenticity of public keys used in these operations may be validated using certificates. A certificate is a digital document typically issued by a certificate authority CA . Certificates are used to authenticate the association between users and their public keys and essentially provides a level of trust in the authenticity of the users public keys. Certificates may contain information about the certificate holder with certificate contents typically formatted in accordance with an accepted standard e.g. X.509 .

For a public key to be trusted its issuing organization must be trusted. The relationship between a trusted CA and a user s public key may be represented by a series of related certificates also referred to as a certificate chain. The certificate chain can be followed to determine the validity of a certificate.

Certificate servers store information about certificates and lists identifying certificates that have been revoked. These certificate servers can be accessed to obtain certificates and to verify certificate authenticity and revocation status. For example a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP server may be used to obtain certificates and an Online Certificate Status Protocol OCSP server may be used to verify certificate revocation status.

User computers can obtain certificates from a number of sources for storage on computers and or mobile devices e.g. mobile device . These certificate sources may be private e.g. dedicated for use within an organization or public may reside locally or remotely and may be accessible from within an organization s private network or through the Internet for example. In the example shown in multiple PKI servers associated with the organization reside on LAN . PKI servers include a CA server for issuing certificates an LDAP server used to search for and download certificates e.g. for individuals within the organization and an OCSP server used to verify the revocation status of certificates.

Certificates may be retrieved from LDAP server by a user computer for example to be downloaded to mobile device . However in a variant implementation LDAP server may be accessed directly i.e. over the air in this context by mobile device and mobile device may search for and retrieve individual certificates through a mobile data server not shown . Similarly the mobile data server may be adapted to allow mobile device to directly query OCSP server to verify the revocation status of certificates.

In variant implementations only selected PKI servers may be made accessible to mobile devices e.g. allowing certificates to be downloaded only from a user s computer while allowing the revocation status of certificates to be checked from mobile device .

In variant implementations certain PKI servers may be made accessible only to mobile devices registered to particular users as specified by an IT administrator possibly in accordance with a security policy governing the operation of the mobile device e.g. an IT policy for example.

Other sources of certificates not shown may include a Windows certificate store another secure certificate store on or outside LAN and smart cards for example.

Applications executable on a mobile device may be stored on an application server . Application server may be coupled or otherwise have access to an application database not shown that stores applications for download to and execution on the mobile device . To have access to the applications stored on the application server each user may have a user account managed by the application server . Access to the application server may be provided via a client application operating on mobile device although in variant embodiments access to the application server may be provided through a web browser for example.

As illustrated the application server may be an internal network server of the host system that is used to store applications to be deployed to the organization s mobile devices . In a variant embodiment the application server may additionally or alternatively provide an application store or application market that is accessible from the mobile device . The application store may allow users of a mobile device to search for purchase and download applications to their mobile device . In some embodiments the application server may reside outside of the host system on a remote system accessible via the public or private network for example.

For ease of understanding the described embodiments further illustrates a simplified view of a subset of components of the mobile device described above. The mobile device may run software applications sometimes referred to simply as apps that access computing resources on the mobile device . As described earlier applications may provide access to a variety of services to the user of mobile device . The applications may be stored in the flash memory of the mobile device or other persistent store and may access computing resources available on the mobile device when executed. Access may be in the form of the applications invoking application programming interfaces APIs made available by the operating access to access the computing resources for example.

A keyring application more generally referred to as a keyring herein may also be provided on mobile device . Keyring allows data to be stored in an associated secure data store e.g. key store and in this regard the term keyring may also be used to refer generally to a structure in which the data is securely stored. The data stored in the keyring may reside for example on mobile device in flash memory on mobile device in some other memory on a device physically coupled to the mobile device on a device remote from the mobile device or distributed amongst some combination of these memories and devices.

As previously noted keyring may also be referred to as a keychain a password store or password manager a wallet or more generally a credential store or credential manager. Keyring generally allows for the secure storage of data particularly credentials that a user may wish to store securely e.g. usernames passwords cryptographic e.g. encryption keys access codes digital certificates and other secure data items for multiple applications and services typically by storing the data in encrypted form.

In some implementations a user may need to enter a separate keyring password that has been specifically assigned to keyring in order to unlock keyring i.e. to allow access to the data stored by keyring . In variant implementations the user may not need to enter a keyring password.

While keyring is locked access to the contents of keyring and therefore of key store is restricted once the keyring is unlocked however one or more applications may be permitted access to the contents of keyring i.e. to contents of key store in the example .

In certain implementations while keyring is unlocked a given application may be permitted access only to contents of keyring that it had directed keyring to store in other words the given application may access its own keyring items but not data items stored in keyring by any other application. In variant implementations once keyring is unlocked any application may access any data items stored in keyring even those created by and or stored for other applications. In some implementations a user must explicitly indicate that a given application is trusted before it may be allowed access to the contents of keyring .

By way of illustration consider the situation in which a device having a browser application has navigated to a website of an associated service and is attempting to login to a user account for the service. The user may have previously set up a username and password for the account during a previous registration process or the login being attempted may be performed as part of a registration process for example. The browser application may offer to save login data such as usernames and passwords to a credential store. The credential store may be one that is used only by the browser application or one that is shared by multiple applications on the computing device as examples.

The attempt to save login data to the credential store provides an opportunity to warn the user when the login data is determined to present a potential security risk and in turn the notification may be sufficient to convince the user to reconsider his or her choice of login data for the corresponding user account.

Referring now to a flowchart diagram illustrating a method of providing a warning associated with a credential to be stored in a credential store in accordance with at least one embodiment is shown generally as . Acts of method may be performed by a processor of a computing device which may be a mobile device e.g. by microprocessor of mobile device in . In one embodiment an application for managing the credential store e.g. keyring application of configures the processor to perform method .

For ease of exposition the following example will be described with reference to a new password as the credential to be stored in the credential store. However the embodiments described herein may be applied in analogous manner to other credentials in variant implementations including for example a new username to be stored in the credential store or some combination of credentials to be stored in the credential store. As further examples the credential to be stored in the credential store can include other identifiers or authentication factors including authentication factors associated with near field communication NFC authentication graphical or passive approaches to authentication e.g. location keyboard input accelerometer etc. and so on.

At a new password to be stored in the credential store is received via user input at the computing device. For ease of exposition the credential store is referred to generally herein as a keyring. The keyring may be managed by a keyring application specifically configured to store credentials for multiple other applications. Alternatively the functionality of the keyring may be provided by a particular application for exclusive use by that application.

The user may input the new password to be stored in the keyring through a user interface provided by the keyring application or via a user interface provided by a different application e.g. during the use of a browser application when navigating to the login page of a website . Typically the new password will be input along with a corresponding username and potentially other login data and a request to store this information is transmitted to the keyring application. An identification of the service e.g. website that the new password is for will typically accompany the request.

In variant embodiments the new password may also be received via import from another service or injection via another service or application.

At a request to store in the key store of the keyring e.g. key store of at least one credential for a specified service is received. For example the new password possibly with a username and or other login data for the specified service is received by the keyring application for processing.

At the specified service is polled to determine an associated security level. This polling may be performed automatically e.g. without user intervention in response to receiving the request at . This act generally entails first determining whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available and then associating the specified service with a level of security based on the availability of the secure connection and or one or more properties of the secure connection.

For example the user may wish to save a username and password for an online banking service. A network address of a website associated with the online banking service may be accessed by the keyring application wherein the service is polled to determine whether a secure connection e.g. SSL TLS is available.

In one embodiment the specified service is associated with a secure level if the secure connection is available and the specified service may then be referred to generally as a secure service on the other hand the specified service is associated with a non secure level if the secure connection is unavailable and the specified service may then be referred to generally as a non secure service.

In a variant embodiment if the secure connection is available one or more properties of the secure connection may also be considered when associating the specified service with a level of security. Properties that may indicate a strength of the connection e.g. availability of a 128 bit or a stronger connection a key exchange algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user a bulk encryption algorithm e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user a server authentication algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user and or a message authentication code MAC algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user may be considered. For example in one example implementation a secure connection to the specified service of a minimum strength e.g. defined by an administrator via a security policy would need to be available in order for the specified service to be associated with a secure level . By way of illustration if a 128 bit or stronger connection is available for the specified service the specified service may be deemed secure whereas if a weaker secure connection is available or if no secure connection is available for the specified service the specified service may be deemed non secure .

In some embodiments the act of associating a specified service with a level of security e.g. secure or non secure is performed in accordance with a security policy governing operation of the computing device e.g. an IT policy . This may permit administrators to define and enforce minimum standards for determining whether a specified service is considered secure.

In variant embodiments the act of associated a specified service with a level of security e.g. secure or non secure is performed in accordance with a policy that explicitly specifies the security level of services on a per services basis.

Although the level of security has been described in the present example as secure or non secure for ease of illustration the level of security with which a specified service may be associated is not limited to secure or non secure . Other levels of security may be defined and more than two levels may be defined in variant embodiments. For example there may be multiple levels associated with a secure status. In some implementations a level of security designated as unknown or the like may also be employed.

At the data in the key store is analyzed to identify services having a different level of security from the level of security associated with the specified service determined at . In some embodiments data in the key store will be stored as records in a data table or other data structure with a username password an identifier of the associated service and level of security stored for each record. By accessing the data in the level of security field for each record records associated with a different level of security from the level of security associated with the specified service can be identified.

For example if a request to store a new password for an online banking service is received at and the online banking service has been determined to be a secure service at then services that are not identified as secure for which data is stored in the key store may be identified at .

As a further example if a request to store a new password for an online news service e.g. to post public comments to news articles is received at and the online news service has been determined to be a non secure service at then services that are identified as secure for which data is stored in the key store may be identified at .

Typically the data in the key store is stored in encrypted form. Data may need to be decrypted act not shown before it is analyzed at . In some embodiments the data may already be available in decrypted form e.g. in a cache for retrieval.

At the password stored for each of the services identified at as having a different level of security from the level of security associated with the specified service is compared to the new password. For each of the identified services a determination is made as to whether the respective stored password corresponds to the new password for the specified service.

In one embodiment the stored password corresponds to the new password if the stored password matches the new password. A stored password with minor variations compared to the new password e.g. upper case versus lower case common character substitutions etc. may be deemed to match the new password in certain implementations.

In a variant embodiment the stored password corresponds to the new password if the store password is determined to be sufficiently similar to the new password e.g. one password includes the entirety of the other password with the addition or deletion of one or more characters certain characters of one password have been substituted for similar characters in the other password certain sets of characters in one password have been transposed in the other password etc. .

If a stored password is not determined to correspond to the new password further stored passwords identified at may be analyzed until they have all been checked see e.g. . If no stored passwords identified at are determined to correspond to the new password then the new password may be stored in the key store at typically the corresponding username identifier of the associated service and level of security are also stored with the new password .

If a stored password is determined to correspond to the new password the flow of method proceeds to in which a warning is provided to a user typically as output in a display of the computing device. The warning output at comprises a notification that indicates to the user a potential risk of compromise to data associated with one or more secure services. In one embodiment this notification may be provided as text in a dialog box. However other forms of alerts including other visual vibrational or auditory alerts may be provided in variant embodiments.

In accordance with at least one embodiment described herein if the new password is for a service that is deemed to be secure a warning will be provided if the new password corresponds to a stored password for a service that is deemed to be non secure to make the user aware of potential data compromise risks. As a further example if the new password is for a service that is deemed to be non secure a warning will be provided if the new password corresponds to a stored password for a service that is deemed to be secure to make the user aware of potential data compromise risks.

In some embodiments all stored passwords identified at may be analyzed before a warning is output to a display at . In other embodiments once a stored password is determined to correspond to the new password a warning is output to a display at and further stored passwords may be checked if the user does not subsequently decide to cancel or change the request to store the new password e.g. the no branch of or act may flow to not shown .

In one embodiment an option to prompt for a different password may be provided to the user as shown at . If the user selects the option the user may enter a different password e.g. flow of method proceeds to and a further request to store the different password may be made.

In one embodiment an option to cancel the request to store the new password may be provided to the user as shown at . If the user elects to cancel the request method at ends and the new password is not stored.

In one embodiment in response to the warning the user may be prompted for confirmation to proceed with storing the new password for the specified service in the key store despite being warned of the risk of compromise to data associated with secure services. The new password may be stored e.g. at after the confirmation is received.

In a variant embodiment an auto fill function in a user interface of the computing device may be disabled when the new password and or any stored password that was determined to correspond to the new password is expected to be received as user input in the user interface. If the new password is to be stored in the key store despite the warning disabling the auto fill function wherever the new password and or any matching passwords are expected to be entered may provide some additional security. This forces the user to manually enter these passwords when logging into services as the passwords have been deemed to be less secure given that there is a similar password stored for a different service e.g. associated with a different security level in the keyring. In these instances the passwords may still be made available in a lookup function provided by the keyring for the user s reference even though the auto fill function has been disabled. The auto fill function may prevent not only a password from being auto filled for a particular site but the auto fill function may be disabled with respect to other accompanying fields as well including username personal information fields e.g. name address telephone number e mail address financial information fields e.g. credit card numbers account numbers etc. and so on.

With respect to the act of storing the new password at in method as previously noted an indicator of the level of security with which the specified service is associated may be stored with the new password. Once the new password is stored however the level of security may change e.g. the secure connection that had previously been determined to be available is no longer available for the specified service a secure connection becomes available for the specified service where none was previously available the strength of the secure connection has changed the status of an SSL certificate associated with the specified service has changed and or the status of an SSL certificate associated with the specified service has been revoked etc. .

Accordingly in one embodiment after the new password is stored in the key store the method may further comprise periodically determining whether the level of security with which the specified service is associated has changed to a different level. This may be done at a certain interval e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. which may be user configurable or configurable by an administrator via a security policy e.g. IT Policy for example. In response the indicator of the level of security may then be updated in the key store. The updated level of security can then be considered in subsequent iterations of an embodiment of the method in which requests to store new passwords are processed. In variant embodiments existing passwords stored in the key store may also be re checked and a warning may be output to a display if the change in the level of security would result in an increased risk of compromise to data associated with one or more secure services. For example whereas previously a secure connection was available for services A and B and the use of the same password was permitted for those services and subsequently it is determined that a secure connection is no longer available for service A or the SSL certificate for service A has been revoked the user may be warned and given the option to change the corresponding password for service A service B or both. This may be done prior to updating the level of security for service A in the key store for example.

Referring now to a flowchart diagram illustrating a method of providing a warning associated with a credential to be stored in a credential store in accordance with at least one other embodiment is shown generally as . Acts of method may be performed by a processor of a computing device which may be a mobile device e.g. by microprocessor of mobile device in . In one embodiment an application for managing the credential store e.g. keyring application of configures the processor to perform method

For ease of exposition the following example will be described with reference to a new password as the credential to be stored in the credential store. However the embodiments described herein may be applied in analogous manner to other credentials in variant implementations including for example a new username to be stored in the credential store or some combination of credentials to be stored in the credential store. As further examples the credential to be stored in the credential store can include other identifiers or authentication factors including authentication factors associated with near field communication NFC authentication graphical or passive approaches to authentication e.g. location keyboard input accelerometer etc. and so on.

At a new password to be stored in the credential store is received via user input. For ease of exposition the credential store is referred to generally herein as a keyring. The keyring may be managed by a keyring application specifically configured to store credentials for multiple other applications. Alternatively the functionality of the keyring may be provided by a particular application for exclusive use by that application.

The user may input the new password to be stored in the keyring through a user interface provided by the keyring application or via a user interface provided by a different application e.g. during the use of a browser application when navigating to the login page of a website . Typically the new password will be input along with a corresponding username and potentially other login data and a request to store this information is transmitted to the keyring application. An identification of the service e.g. website that the new password is for will typically accompany the request.

In variant embodiments the new password may also be received via import from another service or injection via another service or application.

At a request to store in a key store of the keyring e.g. key store of at least one credential for a specified service is received. For example the new password possibly with a username and or other login data for the specified service is received by the keyring application for processing.

At the specified service is polled to determine an associated security level. This polling may be performed automatically e.g. without user intervention in response to receiving the request at . This act generally entails first determining whether a secure connection between the computing device and the specified service is available and then associating the specified service with a level of security based on the availability of the secure connection and or one or more properties of the secure connection.

For example the user may wish to save a username and password for an online banking service. A network address of a website associated with the online banking service may be accessed by the keyring application wherein the service is polled to determine whether a secure connection e.g. SSL TLS is available.

In one embodiment the specified service is associated with a secure level if the secure connection is available and the specified service may then be referred to generally as a secure service on the other hand the specified service is associated with a non secure level if the secure connection is unavailable and the specified service may then be referred to generally as a non secure service.

In a variant embodiment if the secure connection is available one or more properties of the secure connection may also be considered when associating the specified service with a level of security. Properties that may indicate a strength of the connection e.g. availability of a 128 bit or a stronger connection a key exchange algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user a bulk encryption algorithm e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user a server authentication algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user and or a message authentication code MAC algorithm type e.g. some algorithms may be deemed weak and others as strong by an administrator or user may be considered. For example in one example implementation a secure connection to the specified service of a minimum strength e.g. defined by an administrator via a security policy would need to be available in order for the specified service to be associated with a secure level . By way of illustration if a 128 bit or stronger connection is available for the specified service the specified service may be deemed secure whereas if a weaker secure connection is available or if no secure connection is available for the specified service the specified service may be deemed non secure .

In some embodiments the act of associating a specified service with a level of security e.g. secure or non secure is performed in accordance with a security policy governing operation of the computing device e.g. an IT policy . This may permit administrators to define and enforce minimum standards for determining whether a specified service is considered secure.

In variant embodiments the act of associated a specified service with a level of security e.g. secure or non secure is performed in accordance with a policy that explicitly specifies the security level of services on a per services basis.

Although the level of security has been described in the present example as secure or non secure for ease of illustration. Other levels of security may be defined and more than two levels may be defined in variant embodiments. For example there may be multiple levels associated with a secure status. In some implementations a level of security designated as unknown or the like may also be employed.

At the data in the key store is analyzed to identify services having the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service as determined at . In some embodiments data in the key store will be stored as records in a data table or other data structure with a username password an identifier of the associated service and level of security stored for each record. By accessing the data in the level of security field for each record records associated with the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service can be identified.

For example if a request to store a new password for an online banking service is received at and the online banking service has been determined to be a secure service at then other services that are also identified as secure for which data is stored in the key store may be identified at .

As a further example if a request to store a new password for an online news service e.g. to post public comments to news articles is received at and the online news service has been determined to be a non secure service at then other services that are also identified as non secure for which data is stored in the key store may be identified at .

Typically the data in the key store is stored in encrypted form. Data may need to be decrypted act not shown before it is analyzed at . In some embodiments the data may already be available in decrypted form e.g. in a cache for retrieval.

At for each password identified at as having the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service an entropy rating is determined. The entropy rating generally comprises a measure of the level of complexity of the password. Typically the greater the entropy rating the more complex the password is and thus the safer the password is from being guessed by an attacker. The entropy rating may be determined based on any of a number of factors associated with the given password including for example and without limitation the number of characters in the password the number of different character types used in the password e.g. upper case alphabetic characters lower case alphabetic characters numeric characters punctuation and other characters etc. whether the password is a derivative of a corresponding username whether the password can be derived from a dictionary entry etc. Other algorithms for determining the entropy of a password may be employed.

Method continues until an entropy rating for all passwords identified at as having the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service have been determined see e.g. .

At an entropy rating for the new password for which the request at is received is determined. This act may be performed before after or in parallel with the determinations of entropy ratings at depending upon implementation.

At a relative entropy rating is determined for the new password. The relative entropy rating generally comprises a function of the entropy ratings previously computed at and . The relative entropy rating determined at reflects the level of complexity of the new password in relation to the level of complexity of all passwords stored in the key store for services having the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service.

In one embodiment determining the relative entropy rating may comprise ordering all of the entropy ratings determined at and computing a rank index indicating where the entropy rating for the new password ranks in the determined order. The relative entropy rating may be based on this rank index. For example if the entropy rating for the new password indicates that the new password is the ninth most complex password out of 10 passwords stored in the key store the relative entropy rating 9 may be displayed as a numerical value or represented graphically on a scale from 1 to 10 e.g. where the passwords of highest complexity are represented by 10 on the scale for example. In another implementation the relative entropy rating may represent an actual ranking indicating that the new password is ranked 2 out of 10 passwords in terms of complexity for example. A descriptor e.g. very weak weak average strong very strong etc. of the complexity of the new password relative to other passwords for services of the same level of security may be provided in certain implementations. The relative entropy rating may be represented by a point or item on other scales in variant implementations e.g. a scale of colors from dark red to dark green . Other methods of determining the relative entropy rating to be output may be employed.

At the relative entropy rating determined at is output to a display in a user interface of the computing device. The relative entropy rating may be in the form of at least one of a graphical icon a numerical value or a text description as examples. Other forms of alerts including other visual vibrational or auditory alerts may accompany the output of the relative entropy rating.

In this embodiment the relative entropy rating provides a potential warning to the user that the new password may be insufficiently complex relative to services having the same level of security and may allow the user to reconsider his choice for the new password.

For example from the relative entropy rating a user may be apprised of the fact that the new password is the most complex the least complex or has a level of complexity somewhere in between with respect to other passwords being used for services of a comparable level of security. Even if each of the passwords being used for services of a given level of security are not very complex in general or are all highly complex generally the relative entropy rating may nevertheless provide a hint as to how secure the new password is in relation to other passwords. For instance even if a new password would be objectively considered to be highly complex but the relative entropy rating indicates that the new password is the least complex of all passwords being used for secure services the user may be inclined to reconsider his choice of password.

In variant embodiments an overall relative entropy rating that determines the complexity of a new password relative not only to other passwords stored in the key store for services having the same level of security as the level of security associated with the specified service but also to other passwords for services having a different level of security e.g. passwords for both secure and non secure services may be considered may be output in addition to or alternatively to the relative entropy rating output at .

In variant embodiments an explicit warning may be output on the display if a relative entropy rating represent a complexity lower than a certain threshold. The threshold may be defined by for example a user or by an administrator e.g. in accordance with IT policy .

In variant embodiments if in the course of determining entropy ratings see it is determined that at least one stored password matches or is similar to the new password and the relative entropy rating for the new password represents a complexity lower than a certain threshold an auto fill function in a user interface of the computing device may be disabled when the new password and or any stored password that was determined to correspond to e.g. matches or is similar to the new password is expected to be received as user input in the user interface. Disabling the auto fill function may provide some additional security. This forces the user to manually enter these passwords when logging into services as the passwords have been deemed to be less secure given the low relative entropy rating. The auto fill function may prevent not only a password from being auto filled for a particular site but the auto fill function may be disabled with respect to other accompanying fields as well including username personal information fields e.g. name address telephone number e mail address financial information fields e.g. credit card numbers account numbers etc. and so on.

In one embodiment after the relative entropy rating has been output at an option to prompt for a different password may be provided to the user as shown at . If the user selects the option the user may enter a different password e.g. flow of method proceeds to and a further request to store the different password may be made.

In one embodiment an option to cancel the request to store the new password may be provided to the user as shown at . If the user elects to cancel the request method at ends and the new password is not stored.

At the new password is stored in the key store if the request is not cancelled by the user. In one embodiment the user may be prompted for confirmation to proceed with storing the new password for the specified service in the key store. The new password may be stored e.g. at after the confirmation is received.

With respect to the act of storing the new password at in method as previously noted an indicator of the level of security with which the specified service is associated may be stored with the new password. Once the new password is stored however the level of security may change e.g. the secure connection that had previously been determined to be available is no longer available for the specified service a secure connection becomes available for the specified service where none was previously available the strength of the secure connection may change the status of an SSL certificate associated with the specified service has changed and or the status of an SSL certificate associated with the specified service has been revoked etc. .

Accordingly in one embodiment after the new password is stored in the key store the method may further comprise periodically determining whether the level of security with which the specified service is associated has changed to a different level. This may be done at a certain interval e.g. daily weekly monthly etc. which may be user configurable or configurable by an administrator via a security policy e.g. IT Policy for example. In response the indicator of the level of security may then be updated in the key store. The updated level of security can then be considered in subsequent iterations of an embodiment of the method in which requests to store new passwords are processed.

In accordance with at least one embodiment described herein with reference to method of and the accompanying description a warning of potential compromise to data associated with secure services may be output to a display when a new password to be stored in the key store corresponds to e.g. matches a password already stored in the key store for a service having a different level of security. In accordance with at least one other embodiment described herein with reference to method of and the accompanying description a warning may be output to a display in the form of a relative entropy rating which may inform the user when the new password is for example less complex relative to other passwords already stored in the key store for a service having the same level of security.

In variant embodiments various features described with reference to methods and may be implemented in combination as shown in generally as by way of example. A first set of acts associated with determining whether the new password corresponds to a stored password for a service having a different level of security may be performed see e.g. to as well as a second set of acts associated with determining and outputting a relative entropy rating for the new password see e.g. to where generally corresponds to acts and of may be performed. At least some of the acts of method correspond to acts previously described with reference to and the reader is directed to earlier parts of the specification for a detailed description of those acts. While the first and second sets of acts are illustrated as being performed in a particular order in the first and second sets of acts may be performed in an alternative order with respect to each other or in parallel for example in variant implementations.

Referring to example visual outputs that may be displayed on a user interface provided by a keyring application of a computing device are shown. By way of illustration shows a visual output comprising dialog in which data associated with a request to store a new password in a keyring is entered. The data for the request may be entered into fields that include a title for the associated site or service the address for the associated site or service the proposed login username and the proposed new password . Controls associated with an option to submit the request and an option to cancel the request are also provided in dialog .

After performing acts of an embodiment of method for example a visual output comprising a warning dialog is output to a display as shown in . An explanation is provided that indicates that the new password is for a secure service and that that new password matches or is similar to the password for at least one non secure service as identified at . A notification is provided that indicates that use of the new password may put data for a secure service at risk.

In this example controls associated with a number of user selectable options are displayed including an option to change the new password to a different password an option to store the new password despite the risks of which the user has been notified and an option to cancel the request.

Referring to example visual outputs that may be displayed on a user interface provided by a keyring application of a computing device are shown. By way of illustration shows a visual output comprising dialog in which data associated with a request to store a new password in a keyring is entered similar to the dialog shown in . Similarly after performing acts of an embodiment of method for example a visual output comprising warning dialog is output to a display as shown in similar to the warning dialog shown in FIG. GB. In this example the explanation provided indicates that the new password is for a non secure service and that that new password matches or is similar to the password for at least one secure service as identified at . A notification is provided that indicates that use of the new password may put data for a secure service at risk.

As in the example of controls associated with a number of user selectable options may be displayed in the warning dialog of including an option to change the new password to a different password an option to store the new password despite the risks of which the user has been notified and an option to cancel the request.

Referring to an example visual output that may be displayed on a user interface provided by a keyring application of a computing device in accordance with at least one other embodiment is shown. By way of illustration shows a visual output comprising warning dialog in response to a request to store a new password in a keyring. After performing acts of an embodiment of method for example the warning dialog provides an explanation that may indicate that a relative entropy rating for the new password has been determined. The relative entropy rating is illustrated using a graphic a numerical value and a text descriptor in this example. Some or all of the features described in may be integrated into other user interfaces including for example the user interfaces depicted in the example visual outputs of .

After considering the information provided by the relative entropy rating displayed in dialog the user may then select an option via controls displayed on the user interface. The user selectable options may include an option to change the new password to a different password an option to store the new password despite the risks of which the user has been notified and an option to cancel the request.

Although embodiments described herein have been primarily described with reference to passwords as credentials for ease of exposition other types of credentials may also be monitored. For example commonality of usernames between services having a different level of security may be assessed. If the user has used the same username across multiple services with different levels of security the user may be warned of risks of potential data compromise to secure services particularly given that the username typically represents one half of the data in addition to a password used when authenticating a user to a service.

In variant embodiments multiple new passwords may be received via user input for storage e.g. at of . For example three different passwords preferably of varying complexity may be provided e.g. low medium high for an associated service. In response to determining a security level for the associated service a suggestion of which of the three different passwords e.g. low medium or high would be most appropriate for use and storage given the security level for the associated service may be output on the display of the computing device. More generally the receiving of N passwords may be similarly accommodated.

Some of the acts of one or more methods described herein may be provided as software instructions stored on computer readable storage media and executable by a processor. Examples of computer readable storage media may include a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk e.g. a compact disk a digital video disk a flash drive or flash memory magnetic tape and memory. Other configurations are possible as well.

In variant implementations some of the acts of one or more methods described herein may be provided as executable software instructions stored in transmission media.

As used herein the wording and or is intended to represent an inclusive or. That is X and or Y is intended to mean X or Y or both. Moreover X Y and or Z is intended to mean X or Y or Z or any combination thereof.

The present disclosure makes reference to a number of embodiments. However other variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the embodiments defined in the claims appended hereto.

