---

title: Alignment of multiple editions of a signal collected from multiple sensors
abstract: Various embodiments associated with synchronization of signal editions from multiple sensors are described. A plurality of sensors can be deployed in an environment. Different copies of a desired signal can be present in the environment and there can be a desire to identify this signal even if the signal is unknown (and a demodulation scheme of the desired signal is not known). The plurality of sensors can sense weak editions of the desired signal and transfer those signals to a master sensor or to a separate location, such as a fusion center. The weak editions may be asynchronous due to the editions being captured at different locations, different channels, different devices, etc. At the master sensor or separate location, the weak editions can be post-synchronized together and then fused together into a strong signal. From the strong signal, a demodulation scheme can be determined and the signal can be demodulated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438454&OS=09438454&RS=09438454
owner: The Government of the United States, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09438454
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130303
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefor.

In a combat environment different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.

A system is described comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium is described. The non transitory computer readable medium is communicatively coupled to the processor and stores components executable by the processor to facilitate operation of components. The components comprise a find component configured to find an alignment point between a first signal edition of a signal and a second signal edition of the signal. The components also comprise an alignment component configured to use the alignment point to align the first signal edition and the second signal edition where the alignment point is a point of greatest alignment between the first signal edition and the second signal edition. The first signal edition is different from the second signal edition a first sensor collects the first signal edition a second sensor collects the second signal edition and the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors.

A method is described comprising executing instructions from a non transitory computer readable medium. The instructions comprise aligning a first signal edition of a signal with a second signal edition of the signal where the first signal edition is different from the second signal edition where a first sensor collects the first signal edition where a second sensor collects the second signal edition where the first sensor and second sensor are different sensors. The instructions also comprise making a selection of a demodulation scheme for the signal where the selection is based at least in part on mathematical analysis of the first signal edition and the second signal edition when aligned.

A non transitory computer readable medium is described that is configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method. The method comprises collecting a first signal edition of a signal from a first sensor and collecting a second signal edition of the signal from a second sensor where the first signal edition and the second signal edition are not synchronized with one another and where the first sensor and the second sensor are part of different networks. The method also comprises synchronizing the first signal edition with the second signal edition along with identifying a constellation of the signal through use of the first signal edition and the second signal edition. The method further comprises matching the constellation of the signal with a constellation of a known signal and establishing a modulation scheme associated with the known signal. In addition the method comprises using the modulation scheme associated with the known signal to demodulate the signal and causing the signal to be outputted after being demodulated.

Asynchronous low cost sensors can be used in distributed locations for sensing and classifying weak wireless signals. This weak signal may not be identifiable by using a single sensor alone but can be detected and classified by fusing multiple weak signals e.g. editions or editions of the weak signal collected by individual sensors. The asynchronous signal copies can have unwanted offsets in time frequency and phase due to the diversities in local oscillators and unknown communication channels. A post synchronization method can be employed to estimate and compensate for offsets without adjusting sensor parameters. Synchronized signals can be used together to form a combined signal and the combined signal can achieve a higher processing gain for reliable signal exploitation.

With rapid growth of wireless communication services and high performance electronic devices wireless communications can benefit from more intensive and efficient use of spectrum and higher data rates. Dynamic spectrum access adaptive modulation low power transmission and sensor networks can have desired capabilities of cognitive radios which can freely hop through available spectrum and nodes modify transmission characteristics and waveforms and exploit opportunities of using the spectrum and power effectively. There can be a desire to sense an agile signal of interest SOI in a dynamic environment with unpredictable adaptations and low transmitting power. Spectrum sensing and classification conventionally are limited to using a single sensor receiver with sophisticated signal processing. The performance of such techniques can be significantly degraded by the location channel quality and signal strength of the receiving sensor. In a non cooperative communication environment e.g. no handshaking between transmitters and receivers a transmitting signal and communication channels are usually not favorable to an ad hoc receiver or sensing unit and the received signal at the sensor could be weak and distorted so that signal sensing and classification becomes extremely difficult and unreliable. To address the sensing and classification bottleneck a sensor network can be employed. A network centric framework could include interfaces for connecting distributed devices as well as functionality used to search for unknown dimensions for new capabilities. Fusion of local signal decisions and a central decision of the fused signals can be employed. The former uses expensive distributed processors to make decisions locally and the latter combines the multiple signal copies from less expensive sensors to make a central decision. However the synchronization of time frequency and phase among sensors in making central decisions is costly and impractical in many operations. Aspects disclosed herein can be used on a central decision of the fused signals approach by using the low cost sensors or leveraging existing networked sensors distributed at different scales throughout everyday life without the accurate synchronization. The asynchronous signal copies can be processed in the fusion center using post synchronization before they are combined. The copy of the optimally combined signals can give more accurate description of the SOI than any one of the individual signal copies alone.

The fusion center may be located at the same location as a sensor or elsewhere. The fusion center sends periodic requests to L distributed sensors R R . . . and Rto acquire the weak SOI. Upon the reception of the request the distributed sensors take short time duration snapshots of the SOI. The distributed sensors may provide very limited signal processing capabilities such as RF reception and transmission frequency tuning and down conversion filtering and digitization to the different editions. Thus the sensors are asynchronous and non cooperative to one another and are used merely for communicating with or relaying distributed snapshots to the fusion center. The snapshots are very short and are taken periodically. Therefore there is ample time between two snapshots for signal processing and analysis. This capture and processing is conducted in real time.

In an asynchronous sensor scenario magnitudes phases frequencies and sampling clocks among sensors can be different. Consequently the fusion center estimates the relative phase offset RPO induced by different local oscillators LOs channels and filters relative time offset RTO induced by different propagation paths and sampling clocks the relative frequency offset RFO induced by different LOs and the Doppler effect and relative sampling frequency offset RSO caused by the drift and diversity of the sampling clocks before combining the signal copies coherently. The fusion center can be designed to have adequate signal processing power and time to estimate analyze and process the data delivered by the sensors to generate an enhanced signal for detection classification and blind demodulation.

In one dumb sensor scenario embodiment the sensors do not make local decisions but relay the snapshots r t i 1 2 . . . L to the fusion center or store the short time stamped digital data packets and forward them to the fusion center for processing. The packets can be transmitted to the fusion center using a communication method. Without loss of generality Ris assumed to be the reference sensor and R R . . . and Rare compared to Rfor calculating offsets. Assuming offsets have no noticeable change within a very short collection time period and as such calculations discussed herein are under this assumption. The signal packets received at the fusion center can be described as 1 where i 2 3 . . . L and are RFO RPO and RTO respectively and is the relative magnitude offset RMO which does not need to be known in the post synchronization. Relative offsets are referring to 2 where s t as t eis the frequency down converted copy of the SOI observed at R s t is a sequence of pulse shaped information symbols a and are gain frequency and phase offsets between the transmitter and R respectively and n N 0 i 1 2 . . . L is i.i.d. circularly symmetric complex additive white Gaussian noise AWGN . If and can be estimated and eliminated the signals can be combined to form where

Defining 3 where denotes the complex conjugate j is the imaginary unit and v t includes all the uncorrelated terms the correlation function over the observation time period T is

The corresponding frequency domain correlation can be obtained by using the Fourier transfer of rand ras below 2 3 . . . and 7 where R R S N and N are the Fourier transform of r t r t s t n t and n t respectively. Defining 8 where V is the uncorrelated terms. The frequency correlation over the observation frequency domain W is

Two dimensional searching of and for i 2 3 . . . L can a tedious and computationally intensive process. Therefore a one dimensional search method can be used for estimating RFO and RTO. The RTO can be estimated by finding an estimate e.g. best estimate circumflex over such that

Furthermore RFO can be expressed using 16 with a noiseless form of 17 The slope RFO and the intercept RPO are described by a linear regression equation. RFO can also be discussed by the average E of phase differences that is

If the signal copies are sampled by a common or synchronized clock RSO is not an issue. But if the signal copies at the distributed locations are sampled by different clocks or the sampling clocks are not synchronized the samples of rlikely will not line up with rand should be re sampled with interpretation in the fusion center after RSO estimation.

The fusion center converts the asynchronous single input and multiple output SIMO signal to single input and single output a higher gain SISO one r t in a form which can be further processed by applications such as automatic or blind signal classifiers. Since r t has higher SNR compared to r t the former achieves a more reliable classification result. r t is not in general coherent to the SOI transmitter since it adopts the non coherency from the distributed sensors. In other words there are unknown magnitude timing carrier frequency and phase offsets between the SOI and r t although RTO RFO and RPO are eliminated after fusion. The non coherence between the unknown transmitter and the combined signal is not an obstacle to signal sensing and modulation classification since the practical automatic modulation classifier has been designed to address the offset problem for SISO RF IF signals.

Distributed signal exploitation benefits many research areas and applications such as RF power detection emitter geolocation and identification spectrum survey and monitoring etc. Proactive e.g. automatic modulation classification AMC is an example which has applications in both military and commercial systems. AMC is a tool to identify the modulation scheme of a transmitted signal with a high probability of success within a short observation time period. In general the software operates with wideband signal sensing or detection hardware. The signal sensing equipment scans the specified wideband for an SOI defined by certain criteria such as carrier frequency spectrum power preamble bandwidth etc. The fusion of multiple asynchronous signal copies provides a higher probability of successful signal detection and classification.

Modulation classification can start with the band limited digitized and unknown IF signal intercepted by the sensing unit as an input and ends with an estimated modulation scheme as an output. It can be described as a statistical process for estimating the modulation scheme of an unknown signal based on multiple matching templates or hypotheses. Confidence measurements are used to rate the estimation results and control the quality of the modulation classification decision. With high confidence estimation the decision of the modulation scheme can be reported as success and with low confidence estimation the decision of the modulation scheme can be reported as unknown. 

For modern communication waveforms extra processing may be appropriate between spectrum power sensing and modulation classification by identifying antenna dimension and coding extracting downlink uplink bursts separating multiple users removing unwanted headers and the cyclic prefix etc. After signal sensing and modulation classification the resulting decision is used for post processing with further signal analysis or message decoding.

The fused signal r t can be an input to the automatic modulation classifier for signal sensing and classification. Depending on the application the recognized outcome may be used to activate a demodulation unit a specific modem in the universal demodulation library with the classified signal modulation parameters and the appropriate modulation scheme for signal demodulation.

After estimating offsets multiple signals can be combined coherently to improve the signal quality. Graphs and show the demodulated symbols of rand r fused rand r respectively. Graph has a much lower bit error rate BER than graph . Typically the more sensors used the lower the BER will be. The demodulated symbols are not required in post synchronization.

An advantage to using asynchronous and heterogonous sensors is to leverage the low cost or existing communication devices and network without significant investment. Nonlinear offsets RTO and RFO can be estimated independently with the fast search and the linear offsets RMO and RPO can be calculated directly after RTO and RFO estimation. The offset estimation does not require knowledge of the baseband signal information. That is the symbol rate carrier frequency carrier phase pulse shaping filter over sampling rate etc. are not known. The estimation is robust in the low SNR. The asynchronous signal copies with RMO RTO RFO RPO RSFO and RSTO can be combined coherently after post synchronization. The properly combined signal has been demonstrated to achieve the better performance in signal sensing and modulation classification.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

A plurality of sensors can be deployed in an environment. Different signals can be present in the environment and there can be a desire to identify one of those signals even if a network of the desired signal is unknown and as such a demodulation scheme of the desired signal is not known . The plurality of sensors can sense weak editions of the desired signal signal of interest and transfer those signals to a master sensor or to a separate location such as a fusion center. The weak editions may be asynchronous due to the editions being captured at different times etc. At the master sensor or separate location the weak editions can be synchronized together and then fused together into a strong signal. From the strong signal a demodulation scheme can be determined and the signal can be demodulated.

In one example referring to the graph of when two signal editions are compared with one another a specific frequency can exist where the editions greatly match one another. The point 4e 06 6.428e 04 can be found e.g. identified as the alignment point by the find component. The alignment component can find a matching frequency to the point and align the first signal edition with the second signal edition.

In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first network the second sensor is part of a second network and the first network and second network are different networks. While aspects disclosed herein may discuss two sensors with two signal editions it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that more than two sensors that collect more than two signal editions can be used. For example four sensors can be used to capture four signal editions. In one embodiment the first sensor and the second sensor are part of the same network while a third sensor is part of a different network where the first sensor second sensor and third sensor obtain three different signal editions.

In one embodiment a first Fourier transform is applied to the first signal edition of the signal to produce a first transform result and a second Fourier transform e.g. different from the first Fourier transform is applied to the second signal edition of the signal to produce a second transform result. The first transform result and second transform result are used by the find component to find the alignment point.

A plurality of signal editions can be collected from a plurality of different sensors. An edition can be compared against another edition. An edition with the lower noise of the two can be designated a base edition and as such the edition with more noise can be synchronized to the edition with less noise. The base edition can then be used to synchronize a third edition collected at the same time fourth edition etc. If an edition later in time has less noise than the current base edition then the editions can be synchronized and then the base edition can be replaced with the lower noise edition and be used in further synchronization. In short an edition with lowest noise can be used as the base signal edition for use in synchronization of other signal editions.

In one embodiment after the first signal edition and the second signal edition are aligned a moment calculation can be performed such that the first signal edition is multiplied by the second signal edition and then the product is used in a summation. A result from the moment calculation can be void due to the noise being uncorrelated or due to its randomness through the moment calculation. The result can be used to find a similar signal from a database of known signals to the signal. The similar signal can have an associated modulation scheme and the demodulation component can designate the associated modulation scheme as the modulation scheme of the signal.

In one embodiment the method and other methods disclosed herein can function as instructions that are executed from the non transitory computer readable medium of . In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first network where the second sensor is part of a second network and where the first network and second network are different networks. In addition the network of the signal may be unknown and or the signal may be of the first network or second network.

In one embodiment a first Fourier transform is applied to the first signal edition of the signal to produce a first transform result and a second Fourier transform e.g. the same as or different from the first Fourier transform is applied to the second signal edition of the signal to produce a second transform result. The first transform result and second transform result are used to align the first signal edition and the second signal edition.

In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the first signal edition e.g. a walkie talkie radio and where the second sensor is part of a second personal electronic device with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the second signal edition e.g. a tunable software defined radio . Signal editions can be gathered from various devices even without an owner of the device knowing or the device itself knowing. Various devices can be leveraged as sensors along with primary purpose sensors to obtain signal editions.

At there is synchronizing e.g. post synchronizing the first signal edition with the second signal edition. In one embodiment synchronizing the first signal edition with the second signal edition is performed such that synchronization compensates for relative time offset relative frequency offset relative phase offset relative sampling frequency offset and relative sampling time offset when applicable.

At identifying a constellation of the signal through use of the first signal edition and the second signal edition occurs. At there is matching the constellation of the signal with a constellation of a known signal. At establishing a modulation scheme associated with the known signal takes place. At there is using the modulation scheme associated with the known signal to demodulate the signal. At there is causing the signal to be outputted after being demodulated.

In one embodiment the first signal edition collected from the first sensor is raw data and the second signal edition collected from the second sensor is raw data. Raw data can include a signal edition that has not been pre processed by a sensor or a signal edition that has experienced relatively little processing by a sensor e.g. before being forwarded to a fusion center .

In one embodiment a single request can be sent out as the first request and the second request. This single request can request for sensors receiving the single request to transfer and or capture editions of the signal. The single request can be such that a receiving sensor e.g. authorized receiving sensor transfers an edition of the signal or that the single request is sent to specific sensors.

