---

title: Searching and tagging media storage with a knowledge database
abstract: A system and method for searching media storage with a knowledge database is provided. The system includes a search retrieving unit to retrieve a search request, an association retrieval unit to retrieve an association between a content item from the media storage and an identification from the knowledge database based on the search request, and an output unit to output data generated by the association retrieval unit. A method tagging a content item with a knowledge database includes determining the content item to be tagged, tagging the content item with an identification from the knowledge database, and storing the content item and the tagged identification in a tag database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189528&OS=09189528&RS=09189528
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09189528
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
A knowledge database such as freebase is an online collection of structured data harvested from many sources. For example the structured data may be sourced from a public database. Additionally the structured data may be sourced from collaborative public contribution.

The knowledge database may employ a graph model. The knowledge data base may be populated with nodes with each node representing a topic or subtopic. For example if a famous actor is a topic sub topics may be the movies the actor has been in or various other activities or attributes associated with the actor.

The nodes which may be assigned to each topic or subtopic may interrelate to each other thereby creating a graphical three dimensional representation of all the data associated with the knowledge database.

Each node may have an associated identification. The identification may be represented by a string used to identify any node in the graph. For example a node for the president of the United States may be represented by en president of the USA . Each topic may be associated with several different identifications.

Media storage may be served to the general public through video music or text sharing web sites. Thus a media sharing web site may contain media sourced from publishers or created by the various users of the media sharing web site. The media sharing web site may be employed with an application programming interface API thereby allowing parties to script command based languages to access and manipulate the media sourced from the media sharing web site.

Further a media sharing web site may employ a tag functionality associated with each content item. A tag is a non hierarchical keyword or term assigned to a piece of information such as an Internet bookmark digital image or computer file . Tags are generally chosen informally and personally by the content item s creator or by its viewer depending on the implementation associated with the media sharing web site.

A system and method for searching media storage with a knowledge database is provided. The system includes a search retrieving unit to retrieve a search request an association retrieval unit to retrieve an association between a content item from the media storage and an identification from the knowledge database based on the search request and an output unit to output data generated by the association retrieval unit. A method tagging a content item with a knowledge database includes determining the content item to be tagged tagging the content item with an identification from the knowledge database and storing the content item and the tagged identification in a tag database.

Content associated with a media sharing web site may be searchable. However a search of a keyword that is cross referenced to meta data a description or a title associated with the media sharing web site may be limited in the effectiveness of delivering relevant content to a searching user. This limitation may be due to the meta data description or title not fully describing the content.

A knowledge database may be cross referenced with content from the media sharing web site. Thus content such as individual media items playlists of a plurality of media items or a user created channel of content may be associated with identifications from the knowledge database.

A database cross referencing identifications from the knowledge database may populate the database employing various techniques. The populating of the database may be facilitated by matching aspects associated with the content item such a title description or meta data with the string associated with the identification from the knowledge database. Thus each content item may be associated with one or more identifications from the knowledge database.

The methods and systems disclosed herein allow for the searching of the media sharing web site with identifications from the knowledge database. A user may search the media sharing web site using the identifications from the knowledge database. Alternatively a script employing an API to search content items from the media sharing web site may use identifications from the knowledge database.

In addition to retrieving content items the methods and systems disclosed herein may also retrieve pertinent identifications from the knowledge database. A pertinent identification may be an identification associated with the retrieved content item. Thus a user may be cognizant of additional identifications from the knowledge database that may be relevant to the user s initial search.

Further the media sharing web site may employ the identifications from the knowledge database to populate tags for each content item. Thus by populating tags using the identifications from the knowledge database the process of tagging becomes automatic and not hindered by errors introduced through manual user based tagging.

The storage device is a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The pointing device is a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device and is used in combination with the keyboard to input data into the computer system . The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The network adapter couples the computer system to one or more computer networks.

The computer is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic used to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

The types of computers used by the entities and processes disclosed herein can vary depending upon the embodiment and the processing power required by the entity. For example a data store such as a hard disk solid state memory or storage device might be stored in a distributed database system comprising multiple blade servers working together to provide the functionality described herein. The computers can lack some of the components described above such as keyboards graphics adapters and displays .

The system may communicate data to various receiving parties via network . For example system may communicate to a media sharing web site and an API generator . The video sharing web site is equipped with the capabilities of receiving API commands from sources such as the API generator .

The search retrieving unit retrieves a search request. The search request may be an identification from the knowledge database . Further the search request may be any sort of keyword search for content from the media storage . The search request may be sourced from a script using an API associated with a media sharing web site or from a user entering a search term in a toolbar. Further the search request may be a specific content item.

The association retrieval unit includes an identification retrieval unit and a content retrieval unit . A user or requesting source may indicate the preferred retrieved items based on a predefined setting.

The identification retrieval unit uses the search requested by the search retrieving unit and accesses the association store to determine if any identifications from the knowledge database are retrieved. Thus if the search request is or leads to the retrieval of any content items the identification retrieval unit may retrieve identifications from the knowledge database associated with the retrieved content items.

The search request to retrieve identifications from the knowledge database may be a keyword a content item or an identification from the knowledge database . For example if the search request is an identification from the knowledge database a content item associated with the search request may be retrieved and subsequently other identifications from the knowledge database may also be retrieved. In this way a searcher is made cognizant of other identifications that may be pertinent to the content that the searcher is interested in.

The content retrieval unit uses the search requested by the search retrieving unit and retrieves content items relevant to the search request from the media storage based in part on the associations stored in the association store . For example if the search request is an identification from the knowledge database content items associated with the search request may be retrieved.

The output unit may communicate the retrieved content items or identifications from the knowledge database to a receiving party. The output unit may communicate via a network such as the Internet to the receiving party. The receiving party may be a media sharing web site or an API generator . In either case the receiving party may determine a next action associated with the retrieved content items such as displaying the content item for a user or performing another search based on the retrieved identifications.

The system may communicate data to various receiving parties via network . For example system may communicate to a media sharing web site .

The tag determination unit retrieves content items from the media storage based on a predetermined condition. For example an implementer of system may ascertain that content items related to dogs are retrieved. The retrieval may be performed using various heuristics such as content items with a certain view count content items associated with a specific identification from the knowledge database for example.

The tag performing unit based on the retrieved content items tags the retrieved content items based on the identifications from the knowledge database associated with the content item. The association may be ascertained from the associate store .

The tag database stores information about the tag performed by the tag performing unit . The tag database may be in communication via network with a media sharing web site .

As shown in the media sharing web site displays a content item such as a content item retrieved from the media storage . The media sharing web site may also display tag items and . The tag items are sourced from identifications from the content item . The tagging of content item is performed by the tag performing unit and the information about the tagging is retrieved from the tag database .

For example if the content item is a famous dog tag item may be dog tag item may be golden retriever . and tag item may be The name of the dog .

In operation a search request is retrieved. The search request may be an attribute associated with a content item such as a keyword or a specific content item. The search request may also be an identification from a knowledge database .

In operation a determination is made whether to retrieve content items identifications from a knowledge database or both. If a determination is made to retrieve content items method proceeds to operation . If a determination is made to retrieve identification from knowledge database the method proceeds to operation . If a determination is made to retrieve both the method proceeds to operation .

In operation if the search request is a content item identifications from the knowledge database that have been previously associated with the content item are retrieved. After retrieving the method proceeds to operation .

In operation if the search request is an identification from the knowledge database content items that have been previously associated with the identification is retrieved. After retrieving the method proceeds to operation .

In operation if both content items and identifications from a knowledge database are requested content items may be retrieved while identifications from a knowledge database that are germane to the content items may also be retrieved. The search request in operation may be a specific content item a request for a content item or an identification from a knowledge database . Thus as long as any content items are retrieved the associated identifications from a knowledge database are also retrieved. After retrieving the method proceeds to operation .

In operation the method outputs the retrieved content items identifications from a knowledge database or both to a designated receiving party. For example the designated receiving party may be a media sharing web site or an API accessing the media sharing web site.

In operation a determination to tag a content item or group of content items is made. The implementer of method may determine any sort of heuristic to select the content item or the group of content items. For example the group of content items may be selected based on content items that satisfy a condition or are related to a topic.

In operation the content item or the group of content items are tagged via associated identifications from a knowledge database . These associations may be obtained from a previously performed operation such as the operation that populates association store .

In operation the content items along with the tags from operation are stored in a persistent store such as tag database . In operation the content item or content items may be transmitted to an external party such as a media sharing web site or a source implementing an API associated with the media sharing web site.

Certain of the devices shown in include a computing system. The computing system includes a processor CPU and a system bus that couples various system components including a system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The computing system may include more than one processor or a group or cluster of computing system networked together to provide greater processing capability. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in the ROM or the like may provide basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up. The computing system further includes data stores which maintain a database according to known database management systems. The data stores may be embodied in many forms such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or another type of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by the processor such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs and read only memory ROM . The data stores may be connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The data stores provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system.

To enable human and in some instances machine user interaction the computing system may include an input device such as a microphone for speech and audio a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input and so forth. An output device can include one or more of a number of output mechanisms. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing system. A communications interface generally enables the computing device system to communicate with one or more other computing devices using various communication and network protocols.

The preceding disclosure refers to a number of flow charts and accompanying descriptions to illustrate the embodiments represented in . The disclosed devices components and systems contemplate using or implementing any suitable technique for performing the steps illustrated in these figures. Thus are for illustration purposes only and the described or similar steps may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flow charts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown and described. Moreover the disclosed systems may use processes and methods with additional fewer and or different steps.

Embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the herein disclosed structures and their equivalents. Some embodiments can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible computer storage medium for execution by one or more processors. A computer storage medium can be or can be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate or a random or serial access memory. The computer storage medium can also be or can be included in one or more separate tangible components or media such as multiple CDs disks or other storage devices. The computer storage medium does not include a transitory signal.

As used herein the term processor encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The processor can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The processor also can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program module engine software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and the program can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

To provide for interaction with an individual the herein disclosed embodiments can be implemented using an interactive display such as a graphical user interface GUI . Such GUI s may include interactive features such as pop up or pull down menus or lists selection tabs scannable features and other features that can receive human inputs.

The computing system disclosed herein can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communications network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

