---

title: Valveless pharmaceutical infusion system
abstract: A valveless pharmaceutical infusion system for delivery of a pharmaceutical, such as a radiopharmaceutical, is described. The device may include two or more roller pumps, a fluid path set including a confidence, and a measuring device for measuring a property of the pharmaceutical. Methods for delivering a pharmaceutical, such as a radiopharmaceutical, using a valveless pharmaceutical infusion system are also describe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09433728&OS=09433728&RS=09433728
owner: Bayer HealthCare LLC
number: 09433728
owner_city: Whippany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130301
---
Radiopharmaceuticals are provided by manufacturers in numerous concentrations in sterilized containers such as glass bottles or plastic packages ranging incrementally in size from 20 ml to 200 ml. These containers are generally designed for a single use in which once a container is opened for a patient then it is used for that patient only. The radiopharmaceutical is generally aspirated from such containers via a syringe pump used to inject the radiopharmaceutical and any radiopharmaceutical remaining in the container is discarded to prevent infection with potentially contaminated contrast. The medical staff is faced with the task of choosing an appropriately sized container to assure an adequate injection while minimizing discarded radiopharmaceutical. Time consuming procedures are required to reload the syringe if more radiopharmaceutical is required than originally calculated and expensive waste results if only a portion of a filled syringe is injected.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides a device for delivering a pharmaceutical. The device comprises two or more roller pumps and a fluid path set reversibly attached to the device. The fluid path set may comprise a first tubing section fluidly connecting a pharmaceutical source to a confluence a second tubing section fluidly connecting a source of medical fluid to the confluence and a third tubing section fluidly connecting the confluence to an exit port. Flow of fluid through the first tubing section may be controlled by a first roller pump and flow of fluid through the second tubing section may be controlled by a second roller pump. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical may be a radiopharmaceutical. In certain embodiments the device may further comprise a measuring device such as an activity measuring device to measure one or more properties of the pharmaceutical. In certain embodiments the device may comprise a fourth tubing section fluidly connecting the third tubing section or portion thereof to a waste receptacle. In certain embodiments the device may further comprise one or more by pass tubing sections as described herein.

In an embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for delivering a pharmaceutical. The method comprises activating a first roller pump to introduce a medical fluid into a confluence activating a second roller pump to introduce a pharmaceutical into the confluence and delivering the medical fluid and the pharmaceutical to a patient. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical may be a radiopharmaceutical. In certain embodiments the method may further comprise determining a dose of radiation in the radiopharmaceutical before delivering the medical fluid and the radiopharmaceutical to the patient.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for delivering a radiopharmaceutical comprising identifying a dose of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a patient introducing a first quantity of the radiopharmaceutical into a measuring devices determining an activity level of the first quantity of the radiopharmaceutical and introducing one or more additional quantities of the radiopharmaceutical into the measuring device to make a total quantity of radiopharmaceutical having the identified dose. In certain embodiments the method may further comprise delivering the total quantity of radiopharmaceutical having the identified dose to a patient.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every possible implementation of the present invention. The detailed description which follows particularly exemplifies these embodiments.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

 Substantially no means that the subsequently described event may occur at most about less than 10 of the time or the subsequently described component may be at most about less than 10 of the total composition in some embodiments and in others at most about less than 5 and in still others at most about less than 1 .

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

As used herein the term fluid path set refers to a one or more sections of tubing designed and configured to fluidly connect elements of the fluid delivery system including a medical fluid source a radiopharmaceutical source a pharmaceutical source and the like to a fluid delivery tube configured arranged to deliver medical fluid and the radiopharmaceutical and or the pharmaceutical to a patient. In various embodiments the one or more sections of tubing making up the fluid path set may be joined to one another in a manner that allows fluids traveling within the tubing to be carried to various portions of the system mixed with one another delivered to a patient or a waste receptacle. Thus the fluid path set may include one or more joints including but not limited to linear joints T joints 4 way joints and the like. In still other embodiments the one or more of the one or more joints may include valves such as for example check valves by pass valves stop cocks and the like and combinations thereof. The fluid path set of various embodiments may further include one or more fittings that link the fluid path set or portions thereof to the medical fluid radiopharmaceutical pharmaceutical and patient. Such fittings may include Luer fittings screw type fittings pressure fittings and the like and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments tube set may include a delivery tube section that is used on a per patient basis and discarded after use with a single patient to prevent for example cross contamination between patients that can be collectively be referred to as single patient delivery set SPDS or patient administration set PAS . The remaining portions of the fluid path set in which the radiopharmaceutical is calibrated and prepared for delivery can be used for multiple patients and can be referred to as a multiple patient delivery set MPDS or source administration set SAS .

In certain embodiments the MPDS may include no controllable valves and in particular no pinch valves. An exemplary fluid path set is illustrated in the schematic of . In the fluid path set of fluid flow is controlled by the action of three roller pumps A B C . Each roller pump simultaneously contacts two separate portions of the fluid path set and maintains fluid flow of two segments of the fluid path set. In some embodiments each roller pump A B C may operate unidirectionally i.e. rotate only in one direction. In other embodiments one or more of the roller pumps may be capable of rotating in both a forward and reverse direction and in still other embodiments all of the roller pumps may be capable of operating in forward and reverse directions. With regard to the schematic of each roller pump is unidirectional rotating in the directions identified by the arrows.

The fluid path set may include any number of tubing segments. For example as illustrated in a first tubing section may fluidly connect a pharmaceutical source to a confluence . The flow of fluid in the first tubing section may be regulated and controlled by action of roller pump A such that when roller pump A is activated fluid may flow from the pharmaceutical source to the confluence through the first tubing section . When roller pump A is not activated no fluid flows from the pharmaceutical source and no pharmaceutical enters the fluid path set. A second tubing section may fluidly connect a source of medical fluid to the confluence and the flow of fluid through the second tubing section may be controlled by action of roller pump B such that activation of roller pump B causes fluid from the medical fluid source to flow through the second tubing section to the confluence . In some embodiments a third tubing section may be fluidly connected to the confluence and an exit port . The exit port may be designed and configured to attach to an SPDS for delivery of the fluid to a patient.

In certain embodiments the fluid delivery system may be designed to deliver a radiopharmaceutical and may incorporate devices for measuring the activity of a dose of radiopharmaceutical and providing a prescribed dose of radiopharmaceutical accurately. For example in some embodiments the third tubing section may include a first portion of the third tubing section and a second portion of the third tubing section b and a measurement coil may be disposed between the first portion of the third tubing section a and the second portion of the third tubing section . In some embodiments the measurement coil may be incorporated directly into the third tubing section such that the first portion of the third tubing section the measurement coil and the second portion of the third tubing section are formed from a continuous unbroken length of tubing. In other embodiments the measurement coil may be a separate section of tubing that is connected to the first portion of the third tubing section and the second portion of the third tubing section by fittings such as for example Luer screw snap or pressure fittings. The measurement coil will generally have a predetermined length and volume and may be designed to fit within an activity measuring device associated with the fluid delivery device. In operation the activity level of the radiopharmaceutical can be determined while the radiopharmaceutical is carried through measurement coil in the ion chamber before being delivered to the exit port and ultimately administered to the patient.

The fluid path set may include any number of additional tubing sections that can be arranged to facilitate movement and transport of the medical fluid and pharmaceutical through the system flushing of the system and the like. For example in some embodiments the fluid path set may include a fourth tubing section that fluidly connects the third tubing section or a portion thereof to a waste receptacle . In such embodiments a T joint may connect the third tubing section to the fourth tubing section . The T joint may be configured to allow free flow of fluid through the second portion of the third tubing section to the exit port and from the second portion of the third tubing section to the fourth tubing section . Movement of fluid through the T joint can be regulated based on selective activation of the roller pumps. For example in the fluid path illustrated in movement of fluid toward the exit port through the second portion of the third tubing section can be achieved by inactivating of roller pump A stopping fluid flow through the fourth tubing section and activating roller pump C which draws fluid through the second portion of the third tubing section toward the exit port . Because fluid flow is stopped in the fourth tubing section fluid must flow to the right as drawn at the T joint . Conversely inactivating roller pump C stopping fluid flow through the second portion of the third tubing section and activating roller pump A causes fluid to flow through the fourth tubing section to the waste receptacle .

The fluid path set may further include one or more by pass tubing sections that allow for fluid flow by passing particular roller pumps. For example as illustrated in in some embodiments a waste by pass tubing section may connect an upstream portion of the fourth tubing section through a T joint with a downstream portion of the fourth tubing section through a T joint . As depicted fluid flow through the waste by pass tubing section may be initiated by activation of roller pump B allowing fluid to flow to the waste receptacle even when roller pump A is inactive. This arrangement allows medical fluid from the fluid source to flow through the second tubing section confluence third tubing section and in certain embodiments the measurement coil and into the waste receptacle through the waste by pass tubing section when roller pump B is activated and roller pumps A and C are inactive. This allows these tubing sections to be primed such that air in the fluid path set can be replaced with fluid.

In certain embodiments the fluid path set may include a medical fluid by pass tubing section connecting an upstream portion of the second tubing section at a T joint to a downstream portion of the second tubing section . In some embodiments as illustrated in a T joint may connect the downstream portion of the second tubing section to the medical fluid by pass tubing section . In other embodiments the medical fluid by pass tubing section may connect directly to the confluence thereby by passing the second tubing section completely. In operation the inactivating roller pump B and activating roller pump C will allow fluid to flow from the medical fluid source to the confluence into the third tubing section to the exit port and to the patient through the SPDS .

The tubing set illustrated in may include any number of additional tubing sections by pass sections T joints confluences and the like and in particular embodiments the fluid set path may include check valves or other means for reducing or eliminating backflow of fluid. Such check valves can be introduced on any tubing section at any position along the tubing sections where backflow may be problematic. In certain embodiments a first check valve associated with the confluence may be located in or near the confluence to eliminate back flow into the first tubing section and a second check valve associated with the confluence may be located in or near the confluence to eliminate backflow into the second tubing section . These check valves may reduce the likelihood of contamination of the medical fluid source with pharmaceutical and reduce the likelihood of dilution of the pharmaceutical source with medical fluid. Additional check valves may be located near T joints and by pass tubing sections to reduce contamination when for example fluids are shunted to the waste receptacle .

While some embodiments described herein include specific mention of a measurement coil for measuring the radioactive emissions of a radiopharmaceutical other embodiments are not limited to measurement coils for measuring radioactive emissions. For example in some embodiments the pharmaceutical may be measured by volume alone and thus no measurement coil may be necessary. In other embodiments the measurement coil may be configured and arranged for analyte detection allowing the amount of a particular analyte to be measured before delivery to a patient.

In some embodiments the confluence may be configured to accept fluids from more than two sources. For example in some embodiments confluence may be configured to accept fluid from 3 4 5 or 6 sources. In such embodiments additional tubing sections may be configured to carry the additional fluids from a source to the confluence. In some embodiments the roller pumps A B C described above may control flow of the additional fluids by for example replacing a by pass tubing section with a tubing section for introducing an additional fluid from a source to the confluence. In other embodiments additional roller pumps may be used to control the flow of the additional fluids and in certain embodiments other types of pumps may be used to control the flow of additional fluids. For example a manual or stepper motor driven syringe may be used to introduce certain fluids into the confluence or a peristaltic pump or other in line pump may be used to introduce a fluid into the confluence. In some embodiments a check valve may be incorporated into the confluence to allow for one way fluid flow of the additional fluid and reduce back flow or contamination.

In some embodiments the tube set described herein may include one or more additional confluences for introducing additional fluids into a tubing section. For example in certain embodiments a second confluence may be positioned in the second portion of the third tubing section that allows for the addition of another fluid before the fluid is delivered to the patient. The additional fluid can be added before during or after administration of the radiopharmaceutical without interrupting the flow of medical fluid to the patient. For example in certain embodiments a syringe or vial including a pharmaceutical agent such as a stimulant may be introduced into the flow path through a second confluence in the second portion of the third tubing section . In other embodiments a pharmaceutical delivery port may be provided in a portion of the delivery tubing section or SPDS and may be configured to allow introduction of a pharmaceutical agent into the delivery tubing section or SPDS during a procedure. In such embodiments the pharmaceutical delivery port may be any type of port known in the art such as but not limited to a Luer a needle vial adaptor needleless vial adaptor or other fitting capable of accepting a delivery device such as a syringe or vial and allowing access to fluid flow in the fluid path set. In still other embodiments fluid may be diverted into the syringe or vial where the pharmaceutical is mixed with the fluid before being introduced back into the fluid path set before the delivery tube section or SPDS. The systems of such embodiments may include one or more pumps motors or the like associated with the second confluence pharmaceutical delivery port or delivery tube section or SPDS. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical delivery port may be absent blocked or otherwise eliminated such that the radiopharmaceutical can be delivered in the absence of the addition of an additional pharmaceutical or stimulating agent.

Each component of the fluid path sets described herein may be pre connected and can be stored in a sterile packet or container for use in a fluid delivery system. In various embodiments the first tubing section may include a connector such as a spike or vented cannula for connecting the first tubing section to the pharmaceutical or radiopharmaceutical vial and the second tubing section may include a spike or Luer lock for connecting to the medical fluid storage device . Further connectors may be associated with the coil assembly and waste receptacle . In certain embodiments a connector may be associated with the exit port to connect the third tubing section to a SPDS and one or more valves may be associated with such connectors. In some embodiments the connector at the exit port may be a swabable valve that can be disinfected or washed when the SPDS is replaced between patients. In some embodiments the SPDS connector can be encoded through RFID light sensors mechanical sensors etc. to ensure that the correct SPDS is connected. This ensures that the correct protocol is executed with the correct SPDS.

In various embodiments as illustrated in the delivery tube section or SPDS may include a length of tubing having a proximal fitting that can be reversibly attached to the connector associated with the exit port of a delivery device. In some embodiments the delivery tube section or SPDS may have a proximal fitting that can be reversibly attached to a T joint or valve associated with a pharmaceutical delivery port. A distal fitting having a connector capable of being attached to for example a catheter IV needle intravenous port or the like such as for example a Luer connector can be included at the distal end of the length of tubing and may provide a means for delivery of the radiopharmaceutical to a patient. The distal fitting may be configured to connect to typical patient delivery apparatuses such as IV needles ports catheters or other means for delivering intravenous pharmaceuticals. In other embodiments the delivery tube section or SPDS may incorporate such delivery devices and in still other embodiments the delivery tube section or SPDS may be configured to connect to other sections of tubing which may incorporate the delivery apparatuses.

The systems of various embodiments may be configured to deliver any radiopharmaceutical known in the art and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered alone or in combination with another pharmaceutical composition. For example in some embodiments the system may be designed and configured to deliver Ca Ca C L methyl methionine C glycocholic acid C para amino benzoic acid PABA C urea C d xylose Cr red blood cells Cr Cr Cr ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Co cyanocobalamin vitamin B Er colloid F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG F fluoride F fluorocholine Ga dotatoc or dotatate H water In diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA In leukocytes In platelets In pentetreotide In octreotide I iodide I o iodohippurate I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG I FP CIT I fibrinogen I iodide I m iodobenzylguanidine MIBG Fe Fe or Fe Kr aqueous N ammonia O water P phosphate Rb chloride Sm ethylenediaminotetramethylenephosphoric acid EDTMP Se selenorcholesterol Se 23 Seleno 25 homo tauro cholate SeHCAT Na Na Na Na Sr chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc phosphonates and phosphate Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid V DMSA Tc dimercaptosuccinic acid III DMSA Tc colloid Tc hepatic iminodiacetic acid HIDA Tc denatured red blood cells Tc red blood cells Tc mercaptoacetyltriglycine MAG3 Tc exametazime Tc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc sulesomab IMMU MN3 murine Fab SH antigranulocyte monoclonal antibody fragments Tc human immunoglobulin Tc tetrofosmin Tc ethyl cysteinate dimer ECD Tl Tl Xe in isotonic sodium chloride solution Y silicate and the like and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the system may be configured for delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for imaging myocardial or other cardiovascular conditions during for example a stress test. In such embodiments the system may be configured to deliver F fluorodeoxyglucose FDG N ammonia O Water Rb Chloride Tc pertechnetate Tc human albumin Tc human albumin macroaggregates or microspheres Tc diethylenetriaminepenta acetic acid DTPA Tc denatured red blood cells Tc red blood cells Tc exametazine Tc sestamibi MIBI methoxy isobutyl isonitrile Tc tetrofosmin Tl Tl and the like and combinations thereof.

In embodiments in which radiopharmaceuticals are delivered the fluid path set may include a measurement coil that positions the radiopharmaceutical to allow for measurement of the emissions by the components surrounding the activity measuring device. More specifically the measurement coil orients and locates the radiopharmaceutical within a linear region of the activity measuring device to accurately measure its activity level and prepare an optimal dose for injection into a patient. In some embodiments the measurement coil may include a section of gathered tubing in a coiled or an uncoiled amorphous fashion that can be placed inside an activity measuring device associated with the delivery device or in other embodiments the measurement coil may be wound in a specific pattern. The coil assembly may be an individually constructed unit and in other embodiments the coil assembly may include all or portions of third tubing section .

In certain embodiments the measurement coil may include a length of tubing that is coiled on itself or stacked in a coil. The tubing layers may be bonded together to maintain this configuration and in some embodiments as illustrated in the measurement coil may include a core element or structure onto which a tube coil is wrapped. The core element may be configured to facilitate optimal positioning of the tube coil and may be sized to fit within the activity measuring device in the delivery device. In some embodiments the core element may include a tube channel between an upper shoulder and a lower shoulder . The tube coil may be retained within the tube channel and between the upper and lower shoulders to hold the tube coil in position and prevent kinking. In further embodiments an upper surface of core element may include one or more inlet channels or grooves and an outlet channel or groove to accommodate inlet third tubing section and fourth outlet third tubing section respectively.

In various embodiments the coil assembly may be positioned concentrically in the activity measuring device and the core element may be self centering when inserted into the activity measuring device of the fluid delivery system to facilitate optimal positioning and performance. This may be achieved either through structural features of the measurement coil the structure of core element or a combination thereof. For example in some embodiments the upper shoulder the lower shoulder or both can be configured to associate with an outer wall of the activity measuring device. The core element may include additional features such as for example extensions indentations or notches may be provided on the core element either on the upper or lower shoulders or another portion of the coil assembly that engage corresponding elements in the activity measuring device to aid in the proper positioning of the measurement coil . In other embodiments the lower shoulder may be sized to provide an appropriate distance between the lower surface of the activity measuring device when the lower shoulder contacts the lower surface of the activity measuring device or a diameter that corresponds with a the appropriate diameter of the activity measuring device.

With reference to in particular embodiments the core element and the tube coil may be sized and dimensioned so that the measurement coil can be optimally positioned within the linear region of the activity measuring device The linear region of an activity measuring device refers to the region of the chamber in which activity level measurements are repeatable and predictable. For an exemplary activity measuring device Model IK 102 Short Activity measuring device provided by Veenstra Instruments the linear region is located within a window of about 5 mm to about 65 mm measured from the base or bottom wall of the activity measuring device. The measurement coil of various embodiments may have a volume capacity of about 1 ml to about 10 ml or about 1.5 ml to about 7 ml and may be configured in any way to achieve the desired volume. Moreover the tube coil may have any number of turns. For example in some embodiments the measurement coil may have about 4 to about 10 turns and in other embodiments the measurement coil may have about 5 to about 7 turns. In various embodiments the measurement coil may have one or more or turns that allow appropriate placement of the inlet tube section and outlet tube section . A tube coil having this number of turns may be formed from any length of tubing sufficient to make the desired number of turns based on the diameter of the core element . For example a core element having a diameter w of about 0.5 in to about 4 in or about 1 in to about 3 may require tubing having a length of about 5 in to about 24in about 8 in to about 15 in or about 10 in to about 12 in. The height h of the tube coil may similarly vary depending on the number of turns the diameter of the tubing and the diameter to the core element. For example a measurement coil having from about 5 to about 7 turns may have a height h of from about 0.5 in to about 8 in or about 1 in to about 5 in. The measurement coil may be prepared from any type of tubing however in certain embodiment the tubing may have an OD of from about 0.01 in to about 0.5 in and an ID of about 0.025 to about 0.5 in.

In some embodiments the system may include one or more additional components including but are not limited to air detectors mounts or retainers for holding the connector ends of the delivery tube section and the like and combinations thereof.

The tubing of each of the sections of the fluid path sets described above i.e. MPDS and SPDS may be prepared from the same or different materials. For example in various embodiments the tubing may be silicone C Flex standard PVC silicone like PVC material or pump tubing. In particular embodiments the microbore tubing may be formed from for example silicone C Flex or silicone like PVC material and the other tubing sections may be formed from any suitable polymeric material including standard PVC. In some embodiments the tubing may be a coextruded or multilayered tubing having two or more layers of materials. For example in various embodiments the tubing may have an inner layer of a first material such as those identified above and an outer layer of a second material that is different from the first material. In certain embodiments a third layer may be disposed between the inner and outer layers. Such multi layer tubing is known in the art and commercially available.

The dimensions of the components of the fluid path sets described above Including the various tubing sections may vary among embodiments and may depend for example on the procedure for which the system is being used and the type and amount of radiopharmaceutical being delivered. In certain exemplary embodiments the first second third and by pass tubing sections may have an outer diameter OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.25 inches or about 0.17 inches and an inner diameter ID of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches or about 0.08 inches and may have a hardness of about 90 to about 95 Shore A durometer. In some embodiments the first tubing section can be formed of microbore tubing having an OD of about 0.05 inches to about 0.10 inches or about 0.09 inches an ID of about 0.01 inches to about 0.07 inches or about 0.03 inches and a hardness of about 35 to about 55 or about 45 Shore A durometer. The use of microbore tubing in first tubing section can improve volume accuracy and thereby improves measured activity accuracy i.e. of pharmaceutical delivered to the patient and reduces pharmaceutical waste. All of these dimensions are provided for exemplary purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting this disclosure.

In various embodiments pharmaceutical source may be a multi dose container configuration to hold and store a sufficient amount of pharmaceutical for delivery to multiple patients in a single container. In other embodiments pharmaceutical source may be more than one container or vial of the pharmaceutical and the containers or vials may be contained in a well configured to hold more than one container or vial. In some embodiments each container in the multi container configuration may include individual doses of pharmaceutical sufficient for administration to a single patient. In other embodiments each container or vial may hold and store multiple doses of the pharmaceutical and the system may be configured such that doses of the pharmaceutical can be pulled from a new vial when the proceeding vial is used to completion. In still other embodiments different pharmaceutical compositions may be held and stored in each of two or more different multi dose containers and the system may be configured to deliver different pharmaceutical compositions either simultaneously or consecutively to the same or different patients.

In embodiments in which the fluid path set described herein is used for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical the radiopharmaceutical source may be any suitable radiopharmaceutical container or vial known in the art and the device associated with the fluid path set may include a well for holding the radiopharmaceutical that is configured to accept such container or vial and securely hold the container during use. In some embodiments an adaptor may be used that encases all or a portion of the vial or container before it is placed in the well to ensure that the vial or container is secured. In such embodiments the container vial well adaptor or any combination thereof may be prepared from or include a material that blocks emission of the radioactive particles from the radiopharmaceutical.

Embodiments are not limited to a particular pharmaceutical agent and any agent that is known or may be usefully administered may be contained within the syringe and administered to the patient during a procedure. For example in some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may be a stress agent such as but not limited to IV Dobutamine IV Dipyridiamole Persantine IV Adenosine Adenoscan IV Lexiscan Regadenoson and the like. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may reduce vasodilation such as for example IV Aminophylline. In still other embodiments the system may include a first pharmaceutical delivery port and a second pharmaceutical delivery port. In such embodiments a first syringe associated with the first pharmaceutical delivery port that holds a stress agent and a second syringe associated with the second pharmaceutical deliver port may include a pharmaceutical that acts to reduce vasodilation and act as an antidote to stress agent allowing the user to reduce the stress under which the patient is placed as part of the procedure or as a precaution in the event of an adverse event. The pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the fluid flow through the pharmaceutical delivery port continuously or in one or more controlled doses.

The roller pumps A B C described above with regard to the fluid path sets may be any type of roller pump known in the art and in some embodiments these roller pumps may be replaced with other pumping mechanisms. Any suitable type of pumping mechanism can be used including but not limited to piston driven syringe pumps gear pumps rotary pumps in line pumps diaphragm centrifugal pumps and peristaltic pumps can be used in place of the roller pumps described herein. In further embodiments a combination of pumps may be used in the same device to control the flow of fluid through fluid path sets such as those described above and in still other embodiments roller gear diaphragm centrifugal or the like pumps may be used in addition to roller pumps A B and C to augment or further regulate fluid flow. In various embodiments the pumping mechanism may be opened to receive a length of tubing associated with the fluid path set.

The pumps of various embodiments may generally be configured to operate independently. Therefore a user or an operating system can control each pump individually. The pumps can be calibrated to deliver a fluid at a particular flow rate and in some embodiments the flow rate can be modified or altered during use. For example in some embodiments one rotation of roller pump a may introduce 1 milliliter of fluid into the fluid path set and 0 5 milliliters of fluid may be introduced into the fluid path set by causing the roller pump to rotate by revolution. Independent operability may also allow the roller pumps to prime various portions of the fluid path set independently such that air is completely eliminated from the fluid path set before delivery of any fluid to a patient.

In various embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a control system schematically represented in in communication with the various components of the delivery system that for the purposes of the schematic of can include for example pumps motors activity measuring device interrupt button air detectors valves stopcocks and the like. The control system may generally control the operation of the delivery system while also providing an interface with input and output devices such as the display printer and network devices used to program and direct the action of the delivery system .

The control system may include but is not limited to at least one computer having certain components for appropriate operation execution of code and creation and communication of data. The computer includes one or more processing units typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serves to execute computer based instructions received in the appropriate data form and format. Further this processing unit may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions. As used herein the computer may be operably configured to execute appropriate software to perform and implement the processing steps of the methods and systems disclosed herein. The system may include one or more computers or similar computing devices having a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing unit to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed herein. Still further the computer may be in the form of a personal computer coupled to the fluid delivery system a processor formed integrally with the fluid delivery system a computer provided remotely from the fluid delivery system or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the method and system described herein.

The control system may further include a system bus to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computer . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular embodiments the system bus may facilitate data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computer through interfaces.

In some embodiments the computer may include one or more discrete computer readable media components. For example computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computer such as volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media and the like. In certain embodiments the computer readable media may include computer storage media such as media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . In some embodiments the computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. In other embodiments the computer readable media may include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic signals radio frequency signals optical signals infrared signals biometric signals bar code signals etc. . Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In still other embodiments the computer may further include system memory with computer storage media such as volatile and non volatile memory ROM and or RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines assists in transferring information between components within the computer and can be stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit e.g. an operating system application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code.

The computer may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computer may include a non removable memory interface that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive i.e. a non removable non volatile magnetic medium a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with for example a removable memory card . Other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media can be used in the exemplary computing system environment including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. These removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media are in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computer via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computer whether duplicative or not of the information and data in the system memory .

In particular embodiments the fluid delivery system may be configured to allow a user to enter commands information and data into the computer using the touch screen of the GUI display via an operator input interface . However it has been envisioned that an operator may enter commands information and data into the computer using other attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a remote control device a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a scanner a tablet computer and the like via the operator input interface . Any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computer from an outside source may be used including for example hard wiring or accessing using a wireless network device such as blue tooth a wireless internet connection or a cellular connection. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the operator input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a USB.

In still further embodiments data and information can be presented or provided to an operator in an intelligible form or format through certain output devices such as the GUI display to visually display this information and data in electronic form a printer to physically display this information and data in print form a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form etc. All of these devices are in communication with the computer through an output interface coupled to the system bus .

The computer may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which is integral to the computer or remote. This communications device is operable by and in communication with the other components of the computer through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computer may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer of a hospital information system which typically includes many or all of the components described above in connection with the computer . Using appropriate communications devices such as for example a modem a network interface adapter telephone line cellular telephone connection wifi network and the like the computer may operate within and communicate through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet and the like and combinations thereof. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The system may be further configured to provide feedback information to the operator. For example in some embodiments the system may provide the operator with information regarding the administration such as but not limited to the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the patient by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi the amount of other pharmaceutical composition delivered to the patient mg ml the flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical or other pharmaceutical ml s the amount of saline administered ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery. In particular embodiments the system may further provide the operator with absorption data with regard to the particular radiopharmaceutical administered including the expected amount of the radiopharmaceutical absorbed by particular organs such as brain lung liver kidney bladder bone thyroid heart breast stomach colon and skin. In some embodiments the system may reference patient data to determine the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered to the particular patient over time and provide a warning to the operator if absorbed levels become too high. In various embodiments the information may be provided to the operator in real time or provide an estimate of the absorption based on the planned dose prior to an injection.

Following administration or the completion of an administration protocol the system may provide a summary of the procedure including any relevant data. For example in various embodiments the system may provide the dosage of radiopharmaceutical delivered to the patient by milligram mg volume ml and or radioactive activity mCi the amount of other pharmaceutical composition delivered to the patient mg ml the flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical or other pharmaceutical ml s the amount of saline administered ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery the delivery time i.e. the time of day date and the fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery and the like and combinations thereof. The system may further provide absorption data such as that described above.

The data provided either in real time during performance of the protocol or in summary of the procedure may be provided numerically or graphically and in certain embodiments the screens providing the data may provide both numeric and graphic data simultaneously.

The system may further provide the patients name and any critical data such as height weight allergies disease being treated or tested for the procedure to be performed the location of the injection infusion site and the like and various combinations thereof. Such data may be inputted at the time of the procedure or may be inputted prior to the procedure. In certain embodiments the operator may input the patients name and the system may retrieve appropriate patients data from electronically archived patient records using a computer network or Internet connection. In still further embodiments the system may store patient information for more than one procedure. For example in some embodiments a patient schedule including a series of patients scheduled to undergo procedures in the course of a number of hours a day a week and so on or any time period therebetween may be inputted into the system and the system may store patient information for the time period necessary to complete the procedures scheduled. As above patient data for the schedule may be provided in advance of completion of the patient schedule or the system may retrieve patient information from electronic patient archives.

The system may further be configured to run a self check to determine for example the level of various fluids in the system including the amount of radiopharmaceutical remaining the amount of medical fluid remaining the amount of the other pharmaceutical remaining the amount of waste and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the system may be configured to provide a warning when insufficient radiopharmaceutical other pharmaceutical or medical fluid remains to complete a procedure or the waste receptacle reaches a particular level of fullness. The system may further provide information regarding the internal pressure temperature of the system or portions thereof computer system power supply battery life pump status motor status the number of protocols carried out with an MPDS and the like and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the system may be configured to provide an audible or visual warning when the system pressure drops below a minimum or rises above a maximum level. The system may also provide warnings if pump fails or the temperature in the calibration chamber or vial holding well reaches a critical level power is lost or other interruption in the procedure is identified. In certain embodiments the system may automatically stop without input from the operator when critical parameters have been reached to avoid injury to the patient.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to administer a single radiopharmaceutical composition and in other embodiments the system may be configured to deliver two or more different radiopharmaceuticals. In embodiments in which the system is configured to deliver multiple radiopharmaceuticals the system may allow the operator to switch configurations depending on the intended procedure. The amount of radiopharmaceutical delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used. Generally a physician or other qualified medical personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to a particular patient using metrics regarding the patient known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of radiopharmaceutical can be delivered.

The system may likewise be configured to deliver any other pharmaceutical composition alone or in addition to the radiopharmaceutical. For example in various embodiments the system may be configured to administer stress agent such as but not limited to IV dobutamine IV dipyridiamole Persantine IV adenosine Adenoscan IV lexiscan Regadenoson and the like and combinations thereof. In other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may reduce vasodilation such as for example IV aminophylline. The amount of other pharmaceutical or stimulant delivered by the system may vary among embodiments and based on the protocol being used and a physician or other qualified medical personnel can determine an appropriate amount of the pharmaceutical to be delivered based on patient metrics known in the art. Because of the flexibility of the system any amount of other pharmaceutical can be delivered.

The system may be configured to deliver the radiopharmaceutical and other pharmaceutical or stimulant separately or simultaneously depending on the protocol used. For example in some embodiments the radiopharmaceutical may be administered to the patient followed by the administration of the other pharmaceutical or stimulant and in other embodiments the radiopharmaceutical and other pharmaceutical or stimulant may be administered simultaneously by the system. In still other embodiments the other pharmaceutical may be administered and the radiopharmaceutical may be delivered at an appropriate time following administration of the other pharmaceutical. For example in certain embodiments a stimulant may be administered to a patient and a radiopharmaceutical may be administered based on real time patient data such as a target heart rate pulse and the like. Similarly the system may be configured to administer additional pharmaceuticals based on real time patient data. For example if real time patient data indicates that a particular patient metric such as heart rate is too high a depressant may be administered.

Other capabilities and functions not expressly discussed hereinabove or shown in the drawings are of course conceivable in accordance with the embodiments. For example if the extraction of a dose of the radiopharmaceutical from a vial is interrupted the system could alert the operator to discard the dose and present a button for that purpose on the GUI.

Various embodiments are directed to methods for using the system and devices encompassed by the system. shows a flow diagram illustrating some exemplary methods of the invention. Generally the injection procedure can be divided into five phases as represented in the flow chart of 1 an initialization phase 2 a calibration phase 3 a delivery phase 4 a procedure review phase in which it is determined whether another injection shall be performed and the injection procedure is reinitiated or the injection procedure is complete and 5 a shutdown phase . While the procedure set forth below is directed to delivery of a radiopharmaceutical embodiments are not limited to delivery of radiopharmaceuticals and similar methods can be carried out for delivery of any other pharmaceutical composition.

In some embodiments before starting the injection procedure the operator may determine i the desired amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the patient based on the activity of the radiopharmaceutical Ar and ii the estimated concentration of activity in the vial Cv i.e. the activity per unit of volume MBq ml . These data may be provided to the system controller. In other embodiments data provided to the controller may further include the type of radiopharmaceutical provided in the system patient information including for example patient name and vital statistics for the patient the treating physician the time of day and or date the type or procedure to be performed the type of procedure and patient information for procedures to be performed before or after the procedure the name and or identification number of the operator a password or other security measure and the like and combinations thereof. The methods of various embodiments may include the step of inputting such information before beginning the procedure. In certain embodiments methods may further include generating a list of procedures to be performed over a time period. While the information provided in such a list may vary in some embodiments the list may include patient names type of procedure amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to the identified patient the time necessary of the procedure and or a projected start time for the procedure the treating physician and the like. In particular embodiments the information required for such a list may be inputted into the system before initiation and in other embodiments information for the list may be provided before the initiation of the procedure for each individual patient. In still other embodiments information for the list may be inputted remotely and patient information may be provided to the system via an Internet or other network connection that is hardwired or wireless.

Initialization may include any number of steps necessary to prepare the system for delivery of a radiopharmaceutical. In some embodiments initialization may include the step of filling the system including all tubing and connectors with saline or another medical fluid to remove air from the fluid path set i.e. flushing the system . With reference to priming can be carried out by any combination of activating of roller pumps A B and C. For example priming may include the steps of activating roller pump A to draw fluid from a medical fluid source positioned at the pharmaceutical source through the confluence and into the third tubing section before being shunted to medical fluid by pass tubing section and into the waste receptacle completely filling these sections with medical fluid and removing all air from these sections. The method may further include the step of stopping activation of roller pump A and activating roller pump B to draw fluid from the medical fluid source through the confluence into the third tubing section through the measurement coil and waste by pass tubing section to the waste receptacle thereby filling these tubing sections with medical fluid. Roller pump B may then be deactivated and the method may include activating roller pump C which will cause medical fluid to be drawn from the medical fluid source through the medical fluid by pass tubing section through the confluence and the third tubing section to the exit port and into the SPDS . Activation of pump C may completely fill these tubing sections with medical fluid and remove all air from the system. After pump C is deactivated the fluid path set may be completely filled with medical fluid and all air in the system may be removed.

The radiopharmaceutical source may then be placed in contact with the first tubing section and pump A may be activated causing radiopharmaceutical to be drawn from the pharmaceutical source through the first tubing section to the confluence . Pump A may then be deactivated. In some embodiments roller pump B may be activated to flush any pharmaceutical from the confluence before the system is activated for delivery of the pharmaceutical to a patient.

The system being prepared for delivery the method of various embodiments may include the step of connecting a patient to the system. The step of connecting may be carried out by any means including for example introducing a catheter into a patient s vein and attaching an SPDS that is in fluid communication with the exit port and the fluid path set to the catheter. In other embodiments the SPDS may be attached to an existing catheter port in the patient s vein. In such embodiments the SPDS may be flushed and primed with the remainder of the fluid path set to ensure that no air is introduced into the patient s vein during operation of the device. In certain embodiments roller pump C may be activated to initiate flow of medical fluid to the patient through medical fluid by pass tubing section and the third tubing section after the patient is connected to the device.

Returning to delivery of the pharmaceutical to the patient can be carried out by introducing a radiopharmaceutical into the system . In operation roller pumps B and C may be deactivated and roller pump A may be activated for a sufficient time period to introduce a first volume of pharmaceutical into the confluence and a first portion of the third tubing section . The first volume may have a predetermined volume that can vary among embodiments and the actual amount of radiopharmaceutical in the first volume does not need to be known exactly so long as the activity in the volume is not larger than the total activity to be administered Ar . The first volume can be delivered by operating roller pump A for a specific time period or number of revolutions known to move the particular volume of pharmaceutical into the first portion of the third tubing section . Roller pump A may then be deactivated. Moving the radiopharmaceutical into the calibration chamber may be carried out by activating roller pump B for a specific time period or number of revolutions to introduce medical fluid through the confluence and into the first portion of the third tubing section pushing the first volume of radiopharmaceutical into the measuring coil . Determining an initial activity can be carried out to determine a first measurement of radioactive emissions Al using the activity measuring device.

Having made an initial determination of the radioactive emissions of the first volume A the system controller may calculate the missing activity Am based on total desired activity Ar as shown in Equation 1 Eq. 1 In some embodiments the system may estimate the volume of radiopharmaceutical Vm necessary for the missing activity Am based on the volume of the first volume. For example if the first volume had a volume of 1 ml and an A1 that is 50 of Ar a 1 ml second volume Am may be introduced by activating roller pump A for the same time period or number of revolutions as was used to introduce the first volume to make an Ar dose. Similarly if a 1 ml first volume results in an A1 that is 75 of Ar a 0.5 ml second dose may be introduced into the system.

In other embodiments the concentration of activity in the vial Cv can be inputted into the control system by the user during initialization of the system or the Cv can be determined by the system using detectors in the vial well and this value can then be used to estimate the Vm necessary to achieve the total desired activity Ar as shown in Equation Eq. 2

After the estimated remaining volume Vm has been determined the calibration phase may begin. Calibration can be accomplished by introducing a second volume of radiopharmaceutical into the system by activating roller pump A. In some embodiments the volume of the second volume may equal the estimated missing volume Vm and in other embodiments the volume of the second volume of radiopharmaceutical may be half of the estimated missing volume Vm. This volume is designated Vc in Equation 2 Eq. 3 The second volume of radiopharmaceutical may then be introduced into the activity measuring device by deactivating roller pump A and activating roller pump B to introduce additional medical fluid into the fluid path set.

Calibrating the activity measuring device can be carried out by taking a second measurement M which corresponds to the radioactive emission of both the first volume V of radiopharmaceutical and the second volume of radiopharmaceutical Vc because both volumes are present in the tube coil during the measurement. The activity of the second volume Ac can be determined by subtracting the activity of the first volume A measured in the first measurement M from the activity A derived from the second measurement M. The concentration of radiopharmaceutical in the vial based on the emission Cs can be calculated based on the amount of radiopharmaceutical Vc introduced into the system in the second volume of radiopharmaceutical and the activity of these volume of radiopharmaceutical Ac as set forth in Eq. 4 21 Eq. 4 The system is now calibrated and can deliver an accurate dose for example in mCi or in MBq of radiopharmaceutical based on the volume of radiopharmaceutical introduced into the system.

The additional amount of radiopharmaceutical required for the desired total dose Ar can be determined by determining the amount of activity Ac required to reach a total activity of Ar as set forth in Eq. 5 2 Eq. 5. The volume Vc required to provide this dose of radiopharmaceutical can then calculated as set forth in Eq. 6 2 2 21 Eq. 6

Having determined the correct amount of radiopharmaceutical to provide the total desired dose Ar the delivery phase can be initiated. Delivery can include the steps of introducing a third volume of radiopharmaceutical into the system by activating roller pump A and pumping the volume Vc through the confluence and into the first portion of the third tubing section . The third volume of radiopharmaceutical can then introduced into the activity measuring device by deactivating roller pump A and activated roller pump B pumping a volume of medical fluid into the system sufficient to allow the third volume of radiopharmaceutical to enter the measurement coil. In some embodiments the total activity in the measurement coil can be determined measurement M to confirm that the appropriate total dose of radiopharmaceutical corresponding to the total desired activity Ar has been introduced into the system and is prepared for delivery . If a significant discrepancy is detected the system can be stopped before the radiopharmaceutical is delivered. In such embodiments the volume of the tube coil must be large enough to hold all three volumes of radiopharmaceutical. In other embodiments the third volume of radiopharmaceutical may be pushed past the tubing coil for delivery without further measuring the activity of the radiopharmaceutical.

In some embodiments the an accurate dose of radiopharmaceutical Ar can be obtained and delivered to a patient by introducing a first volume of radiopharmaceutical V into the activity measuring device and measuring the activity of the first volume of radiopharmaceutical AV. The volume of radiopharmaceutical necessary to produce the total dose may be determined based on the activity of the first volume as set forth in Eq. 7 21 Eq. 7. Where AV is the necessary activity for a second volume of radiopharmaceutical V and the volume V required to provide this dose of radiopharmaceutical can then calculated as set forth in Eq. 8 22 Eq. 8 where Cs is the concentration of radiopharmaceutical in the vial based on the emission determined as described herein. The second volume V of radiopharmaceutical may be introduced into the system to create the total desired dose of radiopharmaceutical Ar to be delivered to the patient. This two volume method may be carried out after calibration using the three volume method described above and results in delivery of a total desired does with the same accuracy as the three volume method.

The total desired dose of radiopharmaceutical Ar being introduced into the system the radiopharmaceutical can be delivered to the delivery tube set by activating roller pump C causing medical fluid to flow through the medical fluid by pass tubing section into the confluence and through the third tubing section and exit port into the SPDS and to the patient. Thus all liquid in the measurement coil can be flushed to the patient and exactly the required dose of radioactivity is delivered to the patient.

In various embodiments the method presented above may further include the step of delivering a dose of a pharmaceutical agent to the patient . This step can be carried out at any point in the process and may include the steps of introducing a volume of pharmaceutical agent sufficient to elicit the desired effect and delivering the pharmaceutical agent to the patient . In some embodiments the amount of pharmaceutical agent to be delivered can be determined by a physician or other medical professional. This amount can be provided in a single use syringe provided with an appropriate volume of pharmaceutical agent for delivery to a single patient. In such embodiments the system may be configured to depress the plunger completely when the step of delivering the pharmaceutical agent is initiated. In other embodiments the amount of pharmaceutical agent may be provided in a multiuse syringe including a sufficient amount of radiopharmaceutical to be delivered to more than one patient. In such embodiments a motor for example may be used to discharge an appropriate amount of pharmaceutical agent for each individual patient. The user can control the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered by controlling the motor or providing instructions to the control system to discharge an appropriate amount of pharmaceutical agent.

The pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the system at any point within the flow path. For example in some embodiments the pharmaceutical agent may be introduced into the SPDS at either the proximal or distal end of the delivery tube and in other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into MPDS either before or after the tube coil. As illustrated in the step of introducing the pharmaceutical agent into the system may be carried out after flushing the system and before the radiopharmaceutical delivery procedure has been initiated or the step of introducing the pharmaceutical agent into the system can be carried out after the radiopharmaceutical has been delivered to the patient and before the system is shut down . In still other embodiments the pharmaceutical agent can be introduced into the system simultaneously with the radiopharmaceutical and both compositions can be delivered to the patient at the same time.

In some embodiments another injection of the radiopharmaceutical and or another injection of pharmaceutical agent may be delivered to the same or a different patient. In such embodiments procedure may continue by repeating the delivery phases alone or the calibration phase and delivery phase when additional radiopharmaceutical is required and or the pharmaceutical agent delivery phase when additional pharmaceutical agent is required. In various embodiments the initialization phase may not be repeated since the tube coil has been flushed with saline and the radiopharmaceutical extends to confluence . Moreover because no activity is present in the measurement coil section Al in the above calculations can be set to zero and Am and Ar are equal. In the event that no further injections are necessary the procedure maybe terminated using a shutdown protocol which may include one or more steps of flushing system with a medical fluid.

In still other embodiments another injection of pharmaceutical agent may be carried out by providing a single dose having the appropriate radioactive emission Ar. In such embodiments the control system may determine the total volume of radiopharmaceutical administered by determining the total volume V Vc and Vc and delivering the total volume Vr of radiopharmaceutical into the device in a single dose. The radioactive emissions of the total volume Vr may be confirmed in the measurement coil before the dose is delivered to the patient. Thus in some embodiments the initialization and calibration phases may be skipped after an initial initialization and calibration has been carried out.

The systems methods and devices described above may include a number of inherent safety features. For example redundancy in the operation of the device may reduce the possibility that more than the desired dose of radiopharmaceutical will be delivered to the patient even in the event of failure of one component such as a pump. In particular only the dose of radiopharmaceutical in the measurement coil will be delivered to the patient because there is no direct connection from the vial and the fluid delivery set. Additionally sequential measurement of activity within the measurement coil allows the radioactive dose of radiopharmaceutical to be determined before the complete dose is introduced into the system. Thus measurement M confirms that the correct amount of radiopharmaceutical is present in the tube coil before the radiopharmaceutical is delivered. If significant discrepancies are detected between the expected result and the actual measurement procedure can be terminated and or the user will be notified of the discrepancy using for example an audible or visible alarm.

The methods described above may include any number of additional steps including for example replacing the fluid path set placing the waste receptacle into the waste receptacle well placing tube coil into activity measuring device placing tubing into operative connection with pump placing the tubing into operative connection tubing holder placing a spike or cannula into fluid connection with radiopharmaceutical source or vial placing tubing into operative connection with pinch valve and placing tubing into operative connection with air detectors mounts and other devices hanging a medical fluid source on a hook mounting on fluid delivery system and combinations thereof. The method may further include priming the system by flushing with medical fluid connecting the SPDS with the MPDS priming the SPDS to provide a wet connection at the patient end.

Additional embodiments are directed to a method for estimating the flow rate of the device using for example flow rate sensors pressure sensors or the change of activity slope of the radiopharmaceutical. In embodiments in which the activity of the radiopharmaceutical is used to determine flow rate a known volume of the radiopharmaceutical can be pumped into and out of the activity measuring device by pumping additional fluid into the third and fourth tubing sections. The activity of the radiopharmaceutical in the activity measuring device can be measured repeatedly during this process and a slope of the radioactive emissions can calculated from the measured activity values over time. Based on the slope of the emitted radiation and the volume of the activity measuring device the average rate at which the radiopharmaceutical is replaced by saline can be calculated which corresponds to the flow rate of the fluid in the device. Because the radiopharmaceutical and chamber materials may be chosen such that radioactive emissions from the radiopharmaceutical penetrate the walls of the activity measuring device before being measured it is possible to measure the flow rate of the fluid without placing mechanical measuring devices in the fluid stream.

Similarly the flow rate of a radiopharmaceutical to a patient and the location of the radiopharmaceutical within the MPDS can be determined. In particular the activity in the chamber Ac in the activity measuring device and activity in the tubing At at the beginning of the procedure can be measured directly. Based on these data the activity per unit concentration e.g. MBq ml or mCi ml can be determined for the vial as a whole. In some embodiments the decay rate for the radioactive tag can be used to determine the activity of the radiopharmaceutical remaining in the vial. In still other embodiments the total time for the infusion attempt and the volume of tubing between the activity measuring device and the end of the patient line can be used in conjunction with the data described above to determine precisely the amount of radiopharmaceutical administered to the patient.

Once the average flow rate of the radiopharmaceutical through the MPDS is determined this information can be used to determine the location or distribution of the first volume of radiopharmaceutical the second volume of radiopharmaceutical and or the third volume of radiopharmaceutical within the system. Additionally the average flow rate along with fluid mechanical properties of the tubing such as diameter and surface treatment can be used to determine the location of the leading edge and the trailing edge of the radiopharmaceutical volume. By knowing the location of the radiopharmaceutical within the fluid path set system parameters can be adjusted to ensure that the injection is fully completed and the radiopharmaceutical dose and pharmaceutical agent are completely administered.

