---

title: System and method for providing a social customer care system
abstract: The present invention relates to social customer service and support systems integrated with social media and social networks. More particularly, the invention provides a social customer care platform system to allow customer care functions, and in particular to allow customer service agents to identify, prioritize, match and triage customer support requests that may arise through a social network and may be serviced using a social network. It manages and tracks a high-volume of customer interactions and provides for monitoring of Internet social network posts relevant to a business's products or services along with the ability to capture, monitor, filter, make sense of and respond to, in near real-time, tens of thousands of social interactions. It comprises role specific user-interface and functionality for social customer service and support environments, automated prioritization and matching for increased agent productivity, and an automated enterprise workflow to align social media support with existing business processes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483802&OS=09483802&RS=09483802
owner: Lithium Technologies, Inc.
number: 09483802
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130418
---
Customer relationship management CRM systems for customer care are used to manage businesses interactions their customers. CRM software systems are designed to help reduce costs and increases profitability by solidifying customer loyalty. Effective CRM systems bring together information from all data sources within an organization and where appropriate from outside the organization to give one holistic view of each customer in real time. This allows customer facing employees in such areas as sales customer support and marketing to make quick yet informed decisions on everything from cross selling and upselling opportunities to target marketing strategies to competitive positioning tactics.

The explosion in social media and social networks is changing the way people connect and communicate much of it occurring in real time and near real time. As used herein social media and the social web encompass and include any or all online services and networked technologies such as social networks blogs forums microblogs review sites news sites and surveys in which consumers and customers are permitted or encouraged to communicate share publish or review ideas product people or other subjects among one or more collaborators. The content generated within these technologies is called user generated content. As used herein real time means the real time and near real time enabling of users to receive information over the web as soon as it is published by its authors. Millions of Internet based social interactions occur daily and large subsets of those interactions involve product service or support problems currently being experience by customers. Social media is disrupting customer care in that demographic shifts have caused phone support to be used only as a last resort. There are an ever increasing number of ways that customers request support which results in multiple social network and traditional support channels that need to be serviced by a business. Furthermore customers have discovered they get better support when they complain publicly and visibly. Legacy CRM systems were built around phone as the core support channel and are not well suited to processing and organizing social network information. This often results in bad user experiences that cause negative publicity and missed opportunities to have positive and visible interactions with customers and prospects.

In addition there is an increasing use of online Internet support communities sometimes called peer to peer support that allow customers to self service support problems by searching knowledge bases or web content for their problem and posted solutions or by asking questions on line and getting support from another user. Customers that care about their brand and servicing customer realize that they should monitor and participate in these Internet support social media communities and integrating social media data into their CRM and customer support systems.

Social CRM attempts to integrate social websites and related technology into traditional CRM systems to provide another way for businesses to connect with customers and prospects. Social CRM that provides customer support differs from most of the existing social media solutions that have been designed for marketing that is connecting with prospects and existing customers to sell new products and solutions and not designed for use by a customer service agent to provide customer service and support.

Social peer to peer class CRM systems allow customers to answer each other s support questions without contacting a customer service representative by providing a website and infrastructure that allows a user to post questions about a business s product and to receive support answers from other third party users who are usually not affiliated with the business.

However there is still a need to provide agent based support to answer customers and prospects support questions arising on the social web. Many consumers know that they get better service by posting their questions complaints and support requests on Internet social networks. The agent trying to provide this type of support is faced with a myriad of issues. The support questions may be in the form of unstructured Internet website posts streaming in with no associated priority or relevance. There may be no visibility as to whether a post has already been answered or if it is part of an ongoing conversation also known as a thread . It may not be known if the support post is from an existing customer since there is usually no means to connect a social handle a user s web name to a customer CRM database record. To add to the difficulties of communicating efficiently in a social network support environment some social network communication conduits restrict the length or content of messages and do not allow file attachments and the like.

In order to service such requests an agent is forced to use multiple point solutions that often include re keying and retyping information into different and unrelated social communication tools. In addition the agent may not be able to easily access and see related knowledge based articles or other existing answers to a particular customer support problem. Customer support responses to customers frequently contain procedural steps and knowledge based articles which can exceed the data and message constraints of the Internet social network. The agent is frequently unable to easily convert the customer s identity on a social network Twitter and Facebook for example into a valid customer email address in order to respond directly back to the customer so the agent is obligated to respond to customers via the communication conduit from which they initiate the support request. This means that the data and message constraints of that communication conduit could prevent an agent from providing a complete answer to the customer s question.

Because of the lack of visibility into what questions have existing answers which can be pushed out to the customer and whether a post has already been claimed by an agent and being addressed an agent s managers are not able to effectively scale the workload or to prioritize and reassign work across the team. There also are issues with measuring the success of social efforts in general since there are no real time metrics across agents and workgroups no integration with business intelligence or related systems and no easy ways to understand the overall work flows and resource allocation. This also results in a limited ability to view an agent s individual and group contributions. Furthermore unlike traditional call center systems there may be no way to take a customer satisfaction survey to report a good or bad service experience to provide feedback or to rank and report on service or to allow the business to publish good answers to questions for other consumers to access when using the social network communication conduits from which the support request was initiated.

The present solution solves these problems. The solution relates to customer relationship management systems integrated with social media including forums and blogs and social networks. More particularly the invention provides a social customer care platform system and method to allow customer care functions and in particular customer service agents to identify prioritize match and triage customer support requests that may arise through a social network and may be serviced using a social network. It is designed to be able to serve high volume of customer interactions. It provides a system and method to retrieve also known as harvesting data from multiple listening or aggregator services that monitor Internet social networks for posts relevant to a business s products or services. After the present system receives data from an Internet source site or aggregator it is able to capture monitor filter make sense of and respond to in real time tens of thousands of social interactions. It comprises role specific user interfaces and functionality to match customer service environments automated prioritization and matching for increased agent productivity and an automated enterprise workflow to align social media support with existing business processes. The solution provides the ability to connect specific aspects of agent performance with customer satisfaction and use the answers or other communications provided by the agent through the solution. By providing this integrated environment the social customer care system reduces customer servicing costs and provides rapid real time responses that may be measured according to the company s service level agreement SLA response requirements.

The solution comprises a social customer care system and method that is a real time system with continuous self learning designed to discern the context of each social interaction and automatically determine how to best respond. It can be delivered as a SaaS based data service technology platform. It has a social platform with an enterprise workflow that has a customer support forum in the form of an agent response interface that integrates with a knowledge base and other applications that a company uses to manage customers products and services. The workflow allows for matching prioritization workgroup management and routing of customer care requests and problems from social media websites. It provides for agent engagement knowledge base information automation and finally expert agent engagement when necessary. The system integrates with existing CRM systems to access customer records and makes the results of the social care interaction available to the CRM systems and to marketing intelligence systems.

The social customer care system and method comprises an agent desktop that integrates incoming information from social media sources and conduits with a knowledge base and templates of responses to similar types of problems. It provides advanced visualization tools and automatically prioritizes each post. The prioritization process includes a real time advanced triage process for the contact center to surface social interactions that are worth an agent s time with a complete framework for action including research response and reassignment all in one place. It allows for reassignment of the social interaction also known as the conversation to other agents and for the problem to be prioritized and re prioritized as necessary. It also allows for automated prioritization and matching of the customer s problem with an agent to increase productivity and quality. It provides for communication with the customer through third party Internet communication conduits for example Twitter or Facebook . It also allows for delivery of enhanced communication with the customer through a response portal through which only the customer and an assigned customer service agent can see the parts of a conversation thread. It provides for integrated conversation threading and audit trail visibility to agents and their supervisors so they can view the full conversation with the customer at the present time or in the future. As a result agents no longer have to alt tab their way through disconnected applications copy and paste across systems and search silowed stored information.

It has a supervisor desktop that allows the agent s supervisor to view the agent s work and interaction prioritize and measure the workgroup s performance. Included in that measurement is support for and tracking of key performance metrics or SLA performance targets that are company committed service level targets for example time to respond to a customer query that confirm the company is meeting its business targets for service quality for social engagement. Additionally the response portal allows the inclusion of customer satisfaction surveys or other questionnaires to measure an agent s SLAs.

The system and method also provides for a manager dashboard that can display and summarize aggregate statistics about all customer social media and agent interactions. Advance visualization tools assist managers in tracking system level throughput and flow rates around key social media processes. The enterprise workflow includes a team workflow that supports 24 7 support requirements and distributed workgroups in multiple geographic areas. It identifies backlogs and potential backlogs and provides solutions to remedy. The social customer care solution can be integrated with listeners customers prospects CRM systems and knowledge management databases. It can also be integrated with peer to peer support communities.

The core of the described application includes a SaaS based data service technology platform that provides the following modules and associated functionality 

Enterprise Workflow This application provides the functionality for a configurable software as a service SaaS software application for setting up business rules and controlling and coordinating the actions of the modules of the social customer care system and method described herein and their interaction with the customer social network websites support forums knowledge databases customer records CRM systems and marketing intelligence systems. It provides the workflow control for agent engagement knowledge based automation and expert engagement for matching prioritizing controlling workgroups and routing of data and information within the social customer care system. The enterprise workflow also controls input to and output from external systems such as social networks CRM systems marketing intelligence systems. It controls access to data such as customer records knowledge databases and local databases of information available to agents and other users of the social customer care system.

Customer Response Portal This application provides the functionality for the customer service agent to send a response to a customer via the customer s chosen social network communication conduit and still support a full response even though the communication conduit may have data and message length restrictions. The response portal is the public external face of the system described herein and in addition to other features it can act as a knowledge base of prior conversations so that existing solutions can be reused aka self help without the cost of a support agent s involvement It allows customers to take a satisfaction survey or to otherwise rank and report on the service they have received. It does so by providing a shortened link back to a business specific response portal provided by the solution where customers can see more details about the answer to their support request view knowledge based articles see related posts and answers and answer questions about the material provided or the customer service agent s service. Parts of the response portal can be private and confidential for the particular customer and part of the response portal can be made available to the public as a knowledge source for others with similar problems.

Conversation Consolidation and Management This application provides the functionality for managing public comments about a product or brand. Public comments particularly by influential customers or prospects may positively or negatively influence the reputation of a business or the reputation of its products and services. In the realm of customer service to insure proper closure and a satisfied customer all parts of the conversation should be visible and chronologically ordered for the agent. If escalation is required the entire conversation interaction should be transferred as a cohesive unit. While private conversations in social media are bi directional aka threaded the technologies used for public messaging for example Twitter blog postings often operate using a broadcast format. Even in cases where posts and responses are threaded the relatedness of information is not typically preserved by the listeners and scrapers that harvest the data prior to reaching the present system. As such it s not easy to tell which unique social media posts in aggregate constitute a single conversation. To make matters worse conversations with CSR s may switch social network channels from Twitter to email as one example. The present system and method allows the detection with high probability that different messages from varied sources and usernames are all from the same individual and all part of the same larger conversation. By consolidating customer messages and interactions into one cohesive conversation the customer service organization is provided a complete picture of a customer s present and historical interactions with their business.

The conversation consolidation and management function comprises a system and method for automatically locating identifying consolidating and managing public comments across Internet based social networks in a social network customer relationship management system comprising inputting into memory a post created by a third party at an Internet social network site the post having a third party s web name determining if the third party s web name does not exist in a database accessible to the social network CRM system and if it does not adding the third party s web name to the database if the social network CRM system indicates there is an ongoing customer support conversation performing an identification unification process across other Internet social network sites to find other posts from the third party and attaching the other posts from the third party that are found on the other Internet social network sites to the ongoing customer support conversation.

The method further comprises if the third party s web name does not exist in the database accessible to the social network CRM system and has been newly added to the database creating a new ongoing customer support conversation and adding the new ongoing customer support conversation to an available queue for action by a customer support management representative. The method further comprises creating a third party unique identifier key that represents a third party s web name and the Internet social network on which the third party uses the third party s web name and determining if the third party unique identifier key already exists in the database. If the third party unique key already exists in the database setting a flag to indicate that the third party s web name has been verified. The third party unique key may be saved in the database. At least of one third party unique keys are accessed from the database and if ongoing customer support conversations exist for this handle user third party web name the ongoing customer support conversation is identified as being associated with the third party identified in the third party unique key. The identification unification function and processing can be performed prior to inputting into memory the third party post to locate identify and unify user profiles across Internet based social network websites.

Dynamic Scoring Based on Customer Business Context This application provides the functionality for placing customer comments about the products and services of a business in context. For example hot food may be good while a hot laptop is not. The present system and method analyzes the business its industry and related product categories using the business s own website and public web content. It forms conclusions using scoring heuristic algorithms that allow better prioritization and disambiguation of comments made about the business. Agents can validate or override scoring heuristics and the system self learns to provide better customer service and responses.

Incentive Based Social Evangelism Product advertising is becoming less effective as customers turn to friends and social contacts for recommendations about products and services. In the advertising model the carriers such as television networks billboards magazines and the like are paid for delivering advertising messages to the consumer. In the emerging model of social evangelism consumers assume this role can also be incentivized with compensation and can be empowered to pass on incentives to others. This application provides the functionality for an infrastructure to allow a business s customers to place a coupon generation widget or code snippet onto one or many webpages such that their friends and colleagues see an offer that is recommended by someone they trust. Users can use the widget to print a custom uniquely encoded for closed loop tracking coupon which gives them a discount or other benefit at the promoted merchant. Each time a friend or social contact uses consumes a coupon printed from one of the widgets the consumer that posted the coupon may be given some form of compensation.

Identity Unification This application provides the functionality for allowing the social customer care system to use data from and existing user profile called a known reference profile KRP from a customer database such as a CRM database or online social community to locate similar profiles across other social networks and database management systems. Statistical correlation algorithms use the data gathered to predict which profiles belong to the same individual. For example a browser may be currently viewing a LinkedIn profile or CRM record of a known customer the KRP . Upon command such as clicking an available button or activating a pull down menu the system extracts key information about the customer from the previously existing profile such as name address hometown birthdate employer college and the like. This system then uses certain values collected to search other social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google Plus and the like for people with similar attributes. As each list of results comes back the system extracts values from those found profiles as well. It then runs a similarity algorithm and predicts which profile from each additional site is most likely to be the same person. It stores this information in a database along with various scoring artifacts. Each time a different user runs the calculation similar results are scored. There are at least three types of validation thresholds to determine the resulting similarity score. The first is having a high enough correlation score resulting from the similarity algorithms. The second is having enough human reviews of the information to verify same identity. Finally if none of the above two validation events occur and no human has indicated it is not the same person then once a threshold of same matching hits occurs without the person being connected to someone else the system assumes it is the same person and no further validation is required.

The identification unification function comprises a computer implemented method for automatically locating identifying and unifying user profiles comprising the steps of inputting a user profile and designating the user profile as a search subject extracting user identifying data attributes from the user profile searching at least one Internet based social network website for users with profiles containing data attributes similar to the search subject user identifying data attributes identifying a social network site profile for a third party from the social network website based on a closeness of a match of social network site profile attributes for the third party to the search subject user attributes using the social network site profile attributes for the third party and the user identifying attributes running a scoring algorithm to produce a likelihood score that the third party and the search subject from the user profile is the same person and if the likelihood score meets a certainty threshold criteria using the social network site profile attributes for the third party and the user identifying attributes in the user profile for the search subject to search additional Internet based social network websites for data for the search subject based on the social network site profile attributes user profiles and the user identifying data attributes running a scoring algorithm to produce a likelihood score that the third party and the search subject from the user profile is the same person.

The method further comprises computing a link relationship indicator that links the user profile for the search subject with the social network site profile for the third party. The method of further comprises repeating the searching identifying and using steps for multiple Internet based social network websites resulting in a total match score for each social network site profile identified on the respective Internet based social network. The method can be used to locate identify and unify user profiles across other databases such as CRM databases and other databases that contain user profile information.

Quickstart Process This application provides the functionality for scoring the relevancy and priority of product and brand mentions data taken from social media postings. It derives certain keywords to enhance the process of routing the matched posts to the correct workgroups or agents. It comprises allowing a weighted list of product related words phrases model numbers and the like to be designated as domain specific vocabulary DSV . The present system and method allows the DSV to be manually or automatically assembled to be able to configure the post conversation scoring and routing process. This automated approach can occur in near real time and it is more efficient in that it avoids errors associated with a manual approach. The system and method can begin with sparse data for example only the company name and its vertical industry. The application crawls the Internet capturing related terms phrases model numbers executive names and other key data. Its algorithms cluster these terms according to frequency indicators of positive or negative sentiment sometimes known as emotional tell s and proximity to product or model names. After the clustering occurs the application runs a second clustering algorithm known as bi clustering or co clustering to select and weight the terms for placement in the DSV. The results may be displayed for manual confirmation or adjustment by a human. Alternative the results can automatically updated the DSV with the data derived from the process without human intervention.

Consumer Resolver Matching This application provides the functionality for finding existing prior consumers that have had the same problem solved as that being expressed by a new consumer. By putting two consumers together for peer support the company saves the costs associated with agent support.

The enterprise workflow application provides a configurable software application client for setting up business rules and controlling and coordinating the actions of the modules of the system and method of the social customer care system . The enterprise workflow also controls input to and output from external systems such as social networks CRM systems marketing intelligence systems and controls access to data such as customer records that may reside in CRM databases knowledge databases and local databases of information available to agents and other users of the social customer care system.

The customer response portal provides the functionality for the customer service agent to send a response to a customer through a communication network via the customer s chosen social network communication conduit . It allows a full response even though the communication conduit may have data and message length restrictions. It allows for customers to take a survey or complete a questionnaire and to otherwise rank and report on service they have received. It does so by providing a shortened link back to a SaaS application web hosted and business branded response portal where customers can see more details about the answer to their support request view knowledge based articles see related posts and answers and answer questions about the material provided or the customer service agent s service. Parts of the response portal can be private and confidential for the particular customer and part of the response can be made available to the public.

The conversation consolidation and management application provides the functionality for joining multiple public comments about a product or brand in one threaded conversation. Public comments particularly by influential customers or prospects may positively or negatively influence the reputation of a business or the reputation of its products and services and thus have a large impact on the bottom line. In the realm of customer service to insure proper closure and a satisfied customer all parts of the conversation are visible and chronologically ordered. If escalation is required the entire conversation interaction should be transferred as a cohesive unit. The present system and method allows the detection with high probability that different messages from varied sources such as social network communication conduits and usernames are all from the same individual and all part of the same larger conversation. By consolidating customer messages and interactions into one cohesive conversation the customer service organization is provided a complete picture of present and historical customer interactions with the business.

The dynamic scoring based on customer business context application provides the functionality for placing customer comments about the products and services of a business in context. The present system and method analyses the business its industry and related product categories using the business s own website and public web content. It forms conclusions using scoring heuristic algorithms that allow better prioritization and disambiguation of comments made about the business or its products and services. Agents can validate or override scoring heuristics and the system self learns to provide better customer service and responses.

The incentive based social evangelism application provides the functionality to allow a brand s customers to place a coupon generation widget or code snippet onto one or many webpages such that their friends and colleagues see an offer that is recommended by someone they trust. Users can use the widget to print a custom uniquely encoded for closed loop tracking coupon which gives them a discount or other benefit at the promoted merchant. Each time a friend or social contact uses consumes a coupon printed from one of the widgets the consumer that posed the coupon may be given some form of compensation.

The identity unification application provides the functionality for allowing the social customer care system to use data from an existing user profile called a known reference profile KRP from a customer database such as a CRM database or online social community to locate similar profiles across other social networks and database management systems. Statistical correlation algorithms use the data gathered to predict which profiles belong to the same individual. For example a browser may be currently viewing a LinkedIn Profile or CRM record of a known customer the KRP . Upon command such as clicking an available button or activating a pull down menu the application extracts key information about the customer from the page such as name address hometown birthdate employer college and the like. This application then uses certain values collected to search other social networking sites such as Facebook Twitter Google Plus and the like for people with similar names. As each list of results comes back the identity unification application extracts values from those found profiles as well. It then runs a similarity algorithm and predicts which profile from each additional site is most likely to be the same person. It stores this information in a database along with various scoring artifacts. Each time a different client runs the calculation similar results are scored. There are various types of validation thresholds. The first is a certain hit where a unique value found matches another unique value such as a user s email address . The second is a high enough correlation score resulting from initial equivalency type algorithms. The third is enough human reviews of the information to verify the same identity. Finally if none of the above validation events occur and no human has indicated this is not the same person then once a threshold of same matching hits occurs without the person being connected to someone else the system assumes it is the same person and no further searching is required.

The quickstart process application provides the functionality for scoring the relevancy and priority of product and brand mentions data taken from social media postings. It creates a weighted list of certain keywords to automate the process of routing social posts to the correct support agent or team. It comprises allowing a weighted list of product related words phrases model numbers and the like to be designated as Domain Specific Vocabulary DSV . The present system and method allows the DSV to be automatically assembled rather than manually assembled to be able to configure the scoring and routing process. Since this can occur in real time it is more efficient does not require manual labor and avoids errors associated with such manual labor. The system and method can begin with only company name and vertical industry of the company. The application crawls the Internet capturing related terms phrases model numbers executive names and other key data. Its algorithms cluster these terms in buckets according to frequency sentiment indicators and proximity to product or model names. After the clustering the application runs a second clustering algorithm bi clustering or co clustering to select and weight the terms for placement in the DSV. The results may be displayed for manual confirmation or adjustment by a human or the results can automatically update the DSV with the data derived from the process without human intervention.

The consumer resolver matching application provides the functionality for finding other consumers that have had the same problem as that being faced by the current consumer. The two users can be connected directly for self service and save the cost of a paid agent resolution or the current consumer can be redirected to the solution documentation created for the original consumer. This content typically resides either in the knowledge base the community forums or on the response portal which is the public view of the data contained in the whole system described herein .

In the customer receives the message from the social customer care application via the communication conduit . If the message contains a response portal website link the customer visits response portal and may need to be authenticated and then views the agent s response plus a full thread of prior responses. The response could also include viewing knowledge based articles or other functions as shown herein in and processing ends . If the message contains all the support response the customer receives the agent response and processing ends .

Attribute match score The component of the total match score created for a found user that occurred due to exact match between specific attributes e.g. krp.lastName foundUser.lastName . For example if the attribute is one of the globally unique ones this would constitute a certain hit 

The identity management software function takes data from an existing user profile called KRP for known reference profile from a customer database for example CRM or online social community and then uses the values found within it to locate similar profiles across other social sites and in a data base management system if such a system is available and then runs statistical correlation algorithms to predict which profiles belong to the same real human person.

For example if a user s browser is currently viewing a LinkedIn Profile or CRM record of a known customer the KRP the user may click a button and the system extracts key values from the page including first last hometown birthdate employer college etc. The identity unification process then uses a few values first last hometown to search other sites such as Facebook Twitter Google Plus for people with similar names. As each list of results comes back the process extracts values from those profiles as well. A similarity algorithm is run that predicts which profile from each additional site is most likely to be the same person. It stores this information in a central database along with various scoring artifacts. Each time a different client runs the calculation similar results are scored. There are various types of validation thresholds. The first is a certain hit where a unique value found matches another unique value such as a user s email address . The second is a high enough correlation score resulting from initial equivalency type algorithms. The third is enough human reviews of the information to verify the same identity. Finally if none of the above validation events occur and no human has indicated this is not the same person then once a threshold of same matching hits occurs without the person being connected to someone else the system assumes it is the same person and no further searching is required.

Turning now to processing starts . An existing user profile also called a KRP of the person to be searched is used as the starting data . The KRP will contain some number of attributes such as those shown in . KRP of the person to be searched for the search subject may be retrieved from a customer database in a CRM system or from an online social community. Third party online social media websites to search are determined for example Twitter Facebook LinkedIn and other social media sites . At least one third party online website is selected and access is confirmed using authorizations or tokens . The selection of the first online website is to try to find the website that will provide the best information to help identify and verify the person believed to be set forth in the KRP for the search subject. This can mean the website that has the largest set of users or is known to have good search results and data rich user Profiles to add to the KRP. The KRP attributes for search subject that are available are sorted into an ordered list of likely uniqueness . The likelihood of uniqueness may vary by website. The website most likely to yield results is selected to search is based on the now available data and a search is initiated on that third party website . If results are not found then the next third party website to search is determined based on the KRP attributes for the search subjects and likelihood that the website will yield results . If another website exists then processing continues in step . If another website does not exist to search then continues in step . If results are found then the search results are added to a master list of found data from third party website and processing continues in step . If only one record is found or the search results are otherwise lacking new attributes and fuzzy terms are added to the KRP for the search subject to assist in future searching and scoring and processing continues in step . Scoring occurs by attribute similar to what is shown in . In any case if there are more third party websites to search then the next third party website to search is selected and processing continues in step . If there are no more third party websites to search then the first scoring method process and algorithms are initiated . Then a second alternative scoring method process and algorithms are initiated . Website scores for the KRP search subject attributes are compared for near ties . If there are near ties another website scoring methods process and algorithm may be initiated . If there are still near ties yet another scoring method process and algorithms may be run . Four scoring method processes and algorithms are shown in this but there is no limit to the number of scoring method processes and algorithms that may be run by the software. If the result of one of these scoring methods changes a score then per site scoring and comparison may be run yet again . The results are stored by KRP attributes generally to a database . The process owner software and or human is notified that processing is complete and processing ends .

While private conversations in email chat or social media are typically bi directional aka threaded the technologies used for public messages such as Twitter Blog postings often exist standalone in a context free representation . This means that each expression utterance by a customer on that social media site is a separate data item and while it may be displayed in date time order it is not treated as a discrete united set of records belonging to that customer. Even in cases where posts and responses are threaded and such relatedness data is preserved by the originating site this relatedness information is not typically preserved by listeners and web scrapers which harvest the data for tools such as ours. As such it s frequently hard to tell which unique posts in aggregate constitute a single conversation. To make matters worse support conversations with customer service representatives can switch social media sites from Twitter to a branded community or company website as an example and with multiple sources venues there is no single originating source to supply the relatedness information.

There are at least four primary processes to capture and display relatedness between disparate social website posts also known as records to show that there is one conversation thread that belongs to a customer search subject 

Customer Author handle source website identification intersected with an existing open conversation. When a posting on a social media or other website comes from a previously known search subject author handle that has been posted on the same social media website or service for example Twitter and is during a time frame in which a customer service representative for a company is interacting has an open conversation with a customer then a probability analysis is run to determine if the posting can be added to the information the company has collected during this interaction.

Manual agent identification entered via the agent customer service representative user interface. If a post has been linked with a customer but the post is unrelated to the ongoing conversation or not from the customer a user interface control widget allows an agent or supervisor to manually detach the post and start new conversation with the unrelated post. This same set of user interface controls allows the agent to merge two separate conversations together.

Cross venue via identity unification. This is the processing describe in for identifying and unifying information for a search subject.

Same parent thread identification provided by originating service. Certain data feeds are robust enough such that each post contains a record id which points to its parent the thread id . If such data received and a parent record KRP for a search subject exists the system merges the new record to the existing thread.

Turning now to if a post is created by a customer search subject at an Internet site the post is retrieved and collected a listener harvester . The post is delivered to the present system . A database is checked to see if the handle for this customer is previously stored in or accessible to the present system for example in a CRM database . If the customer handle is recognized by the present system that is the customer matches a search subject s data stored in or accessible to the present system then the system checks for existing open conversations meaning interactions with this customer . If the handle is not recognized by the present system then the search subject s information and handle data is stored and processing continues in step . If an existing conversation is found then the information is added to the existing conversation data and processing ends . If not then checks are made for known handles for this search subject at other websites and the processing for identity unification described in occurs . If other handles are stored for this search subject then a check is made for open interactions conversations under one of these other handles . If a conversation is found then processing continues in step . Otherwise a new interaction conversation is created . The conversation is added to an available queue and processing ends .

Modern automatic call distribution systems provide customers with the opportunity to complete a questionnaire relating to a specific interaction between the customer and a business. This could for example be to report a good or bad service experience or additional related issues at the end of each call. In contrast when consumers receive a support question response from a company via the web there is no built in homogenous way for them to provide a satisfaction rank or otherwise report on or about the service they have received. Even worse if they are especially unhappy they may criticize the company in a public forum. The present system provides a response portal webpage and associated processing for quality measurement and to collect customer data that may lead to improvements in business results or the service process itself as well as to give the customer a managed and moderated outlet for expression.

Each time the present system sends a response to a customer it includes a shortened url link with embedded transaction identifier pointing back to the response portal webpage where the customer can see more details about the answer view knowledge based articles see related posts and responses and get answers to basic questions about the solution provided and other information or the customer service representative CSR that provided the information. As used here the term knowledge based articles includes all forms of peer to peer and organizational knowledge produced or aggregated and relating to the topics or issues. Discussion items parts of the conversation that occurred via non public channels meaning private are hidden on the response portal webpage until the person viewing the page authenticates their identity via credentials from the originating site or service. This preserves privacy while allowing the public content to be reused by others to resolve similar issues.

The system accepts consumer feedback entered via the response portal and uses such feedback as a mechanism to automatically alter the value and relevancy weight of specific knowledge based articles. If several consumers indicate that a specific article or document is helpful in resolving a certain issue then that article is ranked as such and will be more likely to be presented to agents experts or individuals reviewing a customer request and thereby is more likely to be attached at the top of subsequent responses for similar problems. Each time an issue resolution dialog goes back and forth between a consumer and a CSR valuable corporate knowledge is created that could be reused for other customers with the same problem. The present system tags categorizes these conversation threads and stores them in a publically accessible knowledge based repository of documents so other consumers can find and employ the solution to an issue they may have. CSRs may also access this knowledge based repository of documents to solve a consumer issue. The system also captures customer feedback such as a quality assessment on the support received. It tracks this and other information collected across multiple social conduits channels. This allows the system to automatically promote one solution over others as a best fit for subsequent searches improving the efficacy and acceptance by customers of solutions provided via social channels.

The present system using the response portal allows large documents for example that may exceed social media such as Twitter or Facebook message size limitations to be viewed and downloaded. The present system creates a centralized public agent moderated knowledge base of common answers and questions and other information allows for promotional and coupon delivery to aid in product and service upselling provides for tracking to aggregate knowledge article and solution usage across multiple social channels and provides for using prompted hashtags to simulate survey completion as well as adjusting these survey results statistically via clustering language patterns to compensate for missing hashtags. As used herein hashtags means a word or phrase prefixed with the symbol thereby allowing any term to be searchable in a social media context. Hashtags can be useful because some consumers will not visit or utilize the response portal webpage to comment on or provide a rating for their recent service experience. To continue to gather meaningful stats for continuous improvement the present system provides a limited list of prompted hash tags that allows consumers to give similar feedback using a social media system such as Twitter. The hashtag list may be published on a social media site such as on a Twitter profile page for the company and may be included at the end of support tweets. The present systems then culls all posts or status updates also known as tweets with the same included hashtags and uses the consumer s author handle as part of the identification unification function to correlate the feedback to specific support tickets as well as track total performance metrics. A certain percent of consumers will ignore the prompted hash tag response option but still provide useful feedback in the raw text of subsequent tweets. The present invention uses language clustering patterns to infer that the language detected within such follow up tweets does in fact fall within the satisfaction range found commonly in Tweets using prompted tag xyz and uses statistics to adjust aggregate metrics to compensate for the missing hashtag in the overall satisfaction scores. For example a CSR sends answers to users A B and C answers. User A follows the short url to the response portal webpage reads the response and completes a survey stating the CSR gave a good answer or otherwise rated the service as good or better. This is one data point to assess the particular CSR s performance. User B does not go to the response portal webpage but instead replies to the CSR s answer tweet and includes hashtag acmesup 3 which is the most positive indicator acmesup 1 fair acmesup 2 good 3 GREAT . Now there are two data points to assess the CSR s performance. User C doesn t do either of the above but instead tweets that the CSR s service was great. The language clustering function of the present system equates User C s tweet with the response being great or good. Now there are three data points to assess CSR competence despite the fact that each data point was acquired through a different technique.

Turning now to the response portal webpage processing starts . A CSR selects the next work item which is usually in the form of a question or request from the system available work queue . The CSR enters a response to a consumer query . The CSR selects the communication conduit or channel to be used for the communication which is typically the same conduit or channel the consumer used and the user account that the CSR will use to send the response and sends the response . The present social customer care system and the response portal application store the full response in a database as part of the open and ongoing conversation with this consumer . A database function creates and returns a conversation identifier . The response portal application used the conversation identifier to generate a unique portal page identifier . The application generates a unique URL based on the portal page ID . The system appends a shortened version of url in the response message going to customer . If necessary due to length sufficient characters are stripped from response message to leave space for short url . The system sends the message or partial message if conduit channel limits require it to the consumer via a third party communication conduit channel . Proprietary messaging systems for example social media services such as Twitter Facebook blogs communities and the like have unique and varied restrictions on message and attachment characteristics. For example at the present time Twitter restricts messages to 140 characters and Facebook does not allow attachment of certain types of external files.

To send a private message Twitter also requires that the intended recipient be following the sender meaning that the recipient has chosen the sender as a friend . These policies burden service and support organizations trying to deliver full and detailed resolution steps to their customers and get accurate feedback for issue closure. The present system automatically tracks the message delivery limits of the underlying delivery conduit and attaches all undeliverable message artifacts to the destination response portal webpage which may be the webpage and website accessible by the short url in included the consumer response.

The consumer clicks the short url to access the response portal webpage and retrieve the entire message plus any additional payload or features present on the response portal web page . The consumer is also allowed to interact with other features of the response portal webpage including but not limited to searching the knowledge bases for additional information and coupons and upselling information .

Turning now to which shows a table showing customer options while interacting with the response portal webpage of the social customer care system . The customer option may include but is not limited to the following actions seeing the entire conversation thread excluding private messages authenticating to the source communication conduit site in order to see private messages answering a survey or other questionnaire claiming and consuming a coupon or special offer downloading and reading a knowledge based article or other attachment provided by the CSR responding back to the CSR as the next step in the discussion searching the provided knowledge base for other articles or related solutions or requesting community known as swarming support in answering or weighing in with opinions or suggestions on the problem .

Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments it should be apparent that modifications and adaptations to those embodiments might occur to persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

