---

title: Systems and methods for providing topographical graphs and travel routes based on perceived exertion
abstract: Systems and methods for providing a topographical graph are provided. A computer-implemented method for providing a topographical graph includes accessing, by a computer processor, road map data associated with a geographic area, and accessing, by the computer processor, elevation data associated with the geographic area. The computer processor references the elevation data to determine points at which there is a change in incline along roads in the geographic area. The topographical graph is constructed, with the points defining nodes in the topographical graph, and arcs between the nodes representing road segments having a substantially constant degree of incline. Further provided are methods for determining levels of perceived exertion in traversing arcs, and for optimizing travel routes for minimal perceived exertion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09217649&OS=09217649&RS=09217649
owner: THE ARIZONA BOARD OF REGENTS ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA
number: 09217649
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 795 174 filed Oct. 11 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DTFH64 12 G 00032 awarded by DOT FHA. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure is generally related to topographical graphs and route planning and more particularly is related to systems and methods for providing topographical graphs indicating points of changing incline and perceived exertion in traversing segments of maps or topographical graphs.

Long distance multi day bicycle tours are a highly popular form of exercise and recreation among a fast growing population of cyclists. Navigation tools that assist multiday bicycle tour planning or generate small scale bicycle routes are known but lack the essential services needed to construct customized long distance bicycle tour routes. Further while network representations of the road and other map features are widely used in mapping applications and route planning few if any are tailored to the needs of bicyclists traveling long distances. Elevation can be added to road network data to calculate slope and produce maps and routing applications for cyclists interested in road gradient but elevation and grade alone are not sufficient to construct multi day tours customized to different levels of riding expertise.

Routing applications require the use of graphs to represent road network structure. The traditional representation of a road map uses nodes in the graph to represent road intersections and edges or arcs to represent the sections of road between intersections. Several well known network flow problems that use graph representations are discussed by Ahuja et al. including the shortest path maximum flow minimum cost flow and multicommodity flow problems. Ahuja R. K. Magnanti T. L. and Orlin J. B. 1993 . Network Flows Theory Algorithms and Applications. Prentice Hall Inc. Graph representations of roads have been used in GIS based routing for a variety of applications including modeling water runoff choosing optimal roads to reach timber stands in forests and routing the collection of solid waste in India. Extensions and manipulations to the traditional road graph model have also been made in GIS applications in order to capture road topology. Speihacek over c ys and Jensen developed a graph representation of a road network that combines a two dimensional representation of roads with a multi graph presentation that simultaneously captures the details of road features and allows for routing. Speihacek over c ys L. and Jensen C. S. 2008 . Enabling location based services multi graph representation of transportation networks. 12 2 219 253. Wilkie et al. created a lane centric graph representation of roads to produce large scale traffic simulations. Wilkie D. Sewall J. and Lin M. C. 2011 . Transforming GIS data into functional road models for large scale traffic simulation. 16 5 .

In order to capture land features accurately the OpenStreetMap OSM dataset uses nodes ways and relations to represent points lines and polygons on the map. This representation presents a challenge for routing. However tags within the OSM database indicate road location and type e.g. oneway yes highway motorway and enable routing within the map.

The International Mountain Bicycling Association IMBA and ClimbByBike.com each offer a method of classifying the difficulty of a bicycle path. The rating system used by the IMBA uses percent grade incline to categorize path difficulty and defines five levels of difficulty ranging from the least difficult white circle to the extremely difficult double black diamond. The easiest level has an average percent grade incline of less than 5 and a maximum grade of 10 while the hardest level has an average percent grade incline of 15 or more and a maximum percent grade of 20 or greater. This method can be used by cyclists as a general guide for existing bicycle trails. Another system of calculating path difficulty is described by Summerson in by Bike 2007 . While this method is more sophisticated than the one defined by the IMBA it can only be used to calculate the difficulty of climbs or paths with percent grade incline of 0 or greater. In Summerson s model the difficulty of a path is the product of the square root of the average grade the total elevation gain the altitude adjustment the surface adjustment and grade variability. The altitude adjustment increases the difficulty of paths above 2000 feet elevation under the assumption that performance decreases noticeably at that elevation and above. Surface adjustment is found by calculating the percentage of the climb that is non paved and multiplying that by 0.25 assuming that unpaved surfaces are 25 more difficult to ride on than paved surfaces. Finally the grade variability adjustment increases the path rating by 0.025 if it has two or more segments where the grade of the segment is larger than the average percent grade of the climb by five or more percentage points. However Summerson s model cannot be used to calculate the difficulty of the example path shown in as it has sections of road less than 0 grade in incline.

Yet another method used to calculate the difficulty of a path is given by equation 1 below. This method shown on ClimbByBike.com considers similar factors.

In this model H represents the total elevation gain L represents the length of climb and T represents the elevation at the highest point of the path. The difficulty of the path in can be calculated using this method as shown in 2 . However it is not clear how the output values of this method scale to paths of higher and lower difficulty and the formula does not adjust difficulty for different categories of cyclists.

Of the existing methods used to calculate the difficulty of a path one of the more popular methods is based on the total elevation gain as climbing is often considered the most challenging aspect of cycling. Consider the path shown in . On this path cyclists would experience a total elevation gain of 671.22 feet and reach a maximum elevation of 871.22 feet. Using elevation gain alone as a measure this path would be labeled with a high difficulty rating. However cyclists riding on this path would also experience two sections during the climb with 0 grade and travel downhill after the climb which would allow them to recover and mitigate the perceived difficulty of the path. As demonstrated by this path example elevation gain of a route alone may not be an appropriate evaluation criterion for path difficulty.

While the present disclosure describes many of the systems and methods provided herein with respect to cycling the concepts are equally applicable and indeed intended specifically to apply to other modes of travel which may cause perceived exertion including but not limited to hiking jogging cross country skiing and so on.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a computer implemented method for providing a topographical graph. Briefly described one embodiment of the method among others can be implemented as follows. A computer implemented method for providing a topographical graph includes the steps of accessing by a computer processor road map data associated with a geographic area accessing by the computer processor elevation data associated with the geographic area referencing the elevation data to determine by the computer processor points at which there is a change in incline along roads in the geographic area and constructing the topographical graph with the points defining nodes in the topographical graph and arcs between the nodes representing road segments having a substantially constant degree of incline.

In another embodiment a system for providing a topographical graph is provided. The system includes a computerized device hosting a topographical graph application. The topographical graph application is configured to access a road map database having road map data associated with a geographic area access an elevation database having elevation data associated with the geographic area reference the elevation data to determine points at which there is a change in incline along roads in the geographic area and construct the topographical graph with the points defining nodes in the topographical graph and arcs between the nodes representing traversable road segments having a substantially constant degree of incline.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions for providing a method for providing a topographical graph enabled at least in part on a processor of a computerized device is provided. A road map database is electronically accessible by the processor the road map database storing road map data associated with a geographic area and an elevation database is electronically accessible by the processor the elevation database storing elevation data associated with the geographic area. The instructions which when executed by the processor perform the steps of referencing the elevation data to determine points at which there is a change in incline along roads in the geographic area and constructing the topographical graph with the points defining nodes in the topographical graph and arcs between the nodes representing traversable road segments having a substantially constant degree of incline.

In still another embodiment the present disclosure provides a computer implemented method of determining a level of perceived exertion in traversing a travel path by a traveler having a particular level of skill in a mode of travel wherein the travel path comprises at least one arc and the at least one arc comprises one or more consecutive elementary pieces each elementary piece of an arc having a substantially same degree of incline. The method includes the steps of determining for each elementary piece of an arc a level of perceived exertion based on an average amount of time persons having the traveler s skill level take to traverse the elementary piece a weight of the elementary piece based on the degree of incline and the traveler s skill level and the position of the elementary piece in an ordered set of consecutive elementary pieces making up the arc determining for each arc of the path a level of perceived exertion by summing the determined levels of perceived exertion for the elementary pieces of the arc and summing the level of perceived exertion for the arcs of the travel path.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Many embodiments of the disclosure may take the form of computer executable instructions including algorithms executed by a programmable computer. However the disclosure can be practiced with other computer system configurations as well. Certain aspects of the disclosure can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable algorithms described below. Accordingly the term computer as generally used herein refers to any data processor and includes Internet appliances hand held devices including palm top computers wearable computers cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems processor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers and the like.

The disclosure also can be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. Moreover the disclosure can be practiced in Internet based or cloud computing environments where shared resources software and information may be provided to computers and other devices on demand. In a distributed computing environment program modules or subroutines may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Aspects of the disclosure described below may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetic and optically readable and removable computer disks fixed magnetic disks floppy disk drive optical disk drive magneto optical disk drive magnetic tape hard disk drive HDD solid state drive SSD compact flash or non volatile memory as well as distributed electronically over networks including the cloud. Data structures and transmissions of data particular to aspects of the disclosure are also encompassed within the scope of the disclosure.

A topographical graph may be defined as a directed graph tilde over G tilde over V representative of a road map or other normally two dimensional map that in addition to its usual attribute of distance for each arc also has an attribute of perceived exertion PE for each arc. The set tilde over V is a finite set of nodes in which every v tilde over V represents a point on a physical road segment at which there is a change in percent grade incline and an arc a v u is defined as a road segment of constant percent grade incline between two nodes v u tilde over V . During the transformation information from a given topographical map or map having associated elevation information is imposed upon the digital road network as described below. The resulting map the graph tilde over G is a representation of the available traversal options as measured by the values of PE in addition to the usual road distance on the original physical roads.

When traversing the arcs in the digital road network G it is possible to encounter several different types of intersections with various slope characteristics. Most possible cases are analyzed below and it is demonstrated how a topographical graph tilde over G is constructed in each case using the graph transformation algorithm provided herein. In each example a digital road network representation G is pictured on the left and the topographical graph tilde over G is pictured on the right. Additionally traversing an arc in the direction opposite to that shown in each Figure implies that a traveler e.g. a cyclist traversing the arc in that direction experiences the opposite percent grade incline. For example if an arc has 2 grade in one direction it has 2 grade in the opposite direction.

The digital road network is transformed into a topographical graph by determining where there are changes in percent grade incline along each road and creating corresponding locations for each node in tilde over V . Starting at node Vin the digital road network the arc v v is traversed until reaching either 1 a point p at which the percent grade incline of the road changes or 2 v. If a point p is reached at which the percent grade incline of the road changes as shown in the node p is added to tilde over V tilde over V tilde over V p and arc v p is added to v p in the topographical graph tilde over G . After adding p to tilde over V traversal of the digital road network arc v v is continued from point p until either reaching another point p at which the percent grade incline changes or reaching v. If vis reached there are no other points at which the percent grade incline changes along v v . Node vmay be one of several different cases of intersections. When reaching node v it must be determined whether or not the percent grade incline at vchanges on any incident arc. If the percent grade incline changes on any arc in the digital road network incident to v vis added to tilde over V and p v is added to in the topographical graph. Several of the possible cases that may occur when encountering an intersection are presented and discussed below.

In case 1 shown in the percent grade incline remains the same on each arc in each direction from the physical intersection v. During the transformation node vis not included in the topographical graph as it is not a point at which the percent grade incline changes. tilde over G tilde over V with tilde over V V v. Case 1 illustrates the resulting topographical graph created when node vin the digital road network is encountered from any other node incident to vin V and the percent grade incline along all arcs incident to vdoes not change. In the next cases presented the percent grade incline along incident arcs may not be equal.

In this case the percent grade incline remains the same for each road running north south and east west through the intersection. When node vis reached by starting at node vand traveling through node v the percent grade incline does not change. Arc v v may be included in the topographical graph if there is a change in incline at node v but node vis not included in the resulting graph. However when node vis reached by starting at node vand traveling through node v the percent grade incline changes and arcs v v and v v as well as node v are included in the topographical graph.

In case 3 shown in there are three arcs with the same percent grade incline and one arc with a different percent grade incline from the other three. The arcs with the same grade have the same grade when coming from the arc with the different percent grade. When node vis reached by starting at node vand traveling through v the percent grade incline does not change and node vis not included in the topographical graph. However when node vis reached by starting at node vand traveling through v the percent grade incline changes and vand arcs v v and v v are included in the resulting graph.

In this case shown in there are two sets of arcs with identical percent grade incline. As the percent grade incline traveling through node vfrom node vto node vremains the same node vis not included in the topographical graph. However when node vis reached by traveling through node vfrom node v node vas well as arcs v v and v v are included in the resulting graph.

In this case shown in there is a fork in the road and the percent grade incline remains the same when traveling in one direction at the fork. As a result when traveling from node vto node vvia node v the percent grade incline does not change and node vis not included in the topographical graph. However when traveling from node vto node vvia node v the percent grade incline changes and node vas well as arcs v v and v v are added to the resulting graph.

In case 6 shown in there is a fork in the road and the percent grade incline is equal in all directions. When traveling from any node to any other node via node v the percent grade incline does not change and vis not included in the resulting topographical graph.

In this case shown in there is a roundabout with six exits in which the percent grade incline stays constant within the roundabout but changes leaving each exit. The resulting topographical graph contains a complete subgraph on the nodes representing exits of the roundabout where all arcs within the subgraph have percent grade incline equal to the percent grade incline along the roundabout 0 in this case .

Now that several of the exemplary cases which may be encountered when reaching an intersection have been presented a summary of the algorithm and process used to construct a topographical graph from the digital road network will be presented and illustrated with an example.

To construct a topographical graph using the digital road network data associated with a two dimensional road map of a geographic area or any dataset or map indicating location or distances between points over any geographic area e.g. the OSM dataset with reference to corresponding elevation map data e.g. the DEM provided by the U.S. Geological Survey to determine where there are changes in incline along any physical road segment. The transformation of G to tilde over G the topographical graph begins at a node v in the digital road network which is traversed along an incident arc v u until reaching either 1 a point p at which the percent grade incline changes or 2 node u. Each time the percent grade incline changes the point at which it changes p is added and appropriately labeled as a node in the topographical graph and the arc incident to it v p is added as an arc in the topographical graph. When an intersection in the digital road network is reached one of several cases may occur as demonstrated above. Depending upon the case the nodes and arcs added to the topographical graph may vary. However arcs will only be added and appropriately labeled to the topographical graph if they begin and end at points at which the percent grade incline changes.

Traversal of the digital road network G and its transformation into the corresponding topographical graph tilde over G terminates when all nodes in G have been visited.

Using the process described above an example digital road network shown in is transformed into a topographical graph shown in . Consider G V A with six nodes as shown in . Using this data the percent grade incline along each arc in G can be calculated and used to construct a topographical graph tilde over G . For example arc v v G is 264 feet in length and contains 8 elementary pieces of 33 feet in length each. The first 4 consecutive elementary pieces traveling from vto vhave 2 percent grade incline and the last 4 consecutive elementary pieces have 4 percent grade incline. Each arc in the digital road network G has known elevation data at the start and end of each elementary piece.

Starting at node v a topographical graph is constructing using the method described above. Arc v v is traversed incident to vuntil either the percent grade incline changes or node vis reached. In this case the percent grade incline changes at the start of the fifth elementary piece within the digital road network arc. A node is thus added to the topographical graph tilde over G to represent this change in incline and traversal of the arc v v is continued until either the percent grade incline changes again or the node vis reached. The percent grade incline does not change before reaching node v. At node v each incident arc is examined. Because the percent grade incline changes immediately on arc v v a node is added at vin the vertex set of the topographical graph and arc v v is added to the set of arcs in the topographical graph. At the beginning of arc v v the percent grade incline does not change. Before using vas the new starting node arc v v is traversed. Arc v v is comprised of 15 elementary pieces and is 495 feet in length. There are two points at which the percent grade incline along this arc changes. The first five elementary pieces of arc v v are 2 grade the second five elementary pieces are 0 grade and the last five elementary pieces are 2 grade. The arc is traversed until reaching the point at which the percent grade incline changes along the arc to 0 grade. Because the section of 2 grade along this arc came directly after another section of 2 grade on arc v v and there are no other arcs incident to v vis not included in the topographical graph but a new arc of 2 grade is created from node vto node v. Another node vis added to the vertex set in the topographical graph at the point at which the percent grade incline changes from 0 to 2 . Once node vis reached it is determined whether or not the percent grade incline changes along any incident arcs. As the percent grade incline changes along arc v v node vand arc v v are added to the topographical graph. This process is repeated until all nodes in the digital road network have been visited. The results of this exemplary process are shown in .

Additionally various points of interest may be added to the constructed topographical graph for example known locations of rest stops overnight accommodations and or potential points of interest to travelers.

Perceived exertion PE is defined as the psychological perception of effort and is related to actual work performed. The construct of PE was first described by Borg Borg G. A. V. 1973 . Perceived exertion a note on history and methods. 5 2 90 93 and was validated as a reliable method of measuring differences in perception of work load by Morgan Morgan W. P. 1973 . Psychological factors influencing perceived exertion. 5 2 97 103 and Skinner Skinner J. S. Hustler R. Bergsteinova V. and Buskirk E. R. 1973 . The validity and reliability of a rating scale of perceived exertion. 5 2 94 96. . Unlike the known measures employed for measuring path difficulty some of which are noted in the background section of this disclosure PE is related to both work performed and the characteristics of the person performing the work. Thus when measuring PE in the context of bicycling both the technical aspects of a path and cyclists characteristics must be considered. Cyclists PE of a path is related to both the percent grade incline of its component parts and riders level of expertise for example as defined by USA Cycling. Similarly the PE of a path for other forms of travel e.g. hiking is related to percent grade incline as well as skill or expertise level of the traveler.

PE of a path is calculated as the sum of the PE of its component parts. The component parts of the exemplary model provided herein are shown in Table 1.

A directed graph G V A is considered to be a representation of the roads or traversable paths of any geographic area e.g. the United States where the set V V V is a finite set of nodes in which every v Vrepresents a location where there is a change in percent grade incline and every v Vrepresents a potential rest stop overnight accommodation or other point of interest. An arc v u is defined as a road segment between two nodes v u V from v to u. For two consecutive path arcs v u v u it implies that u v. As shown in Table 1 a daily path is composed of consecutive arcs which are in turn composed of consecutive elementary pieces of the same percent grade incline for each individual arc. An elementary piece is a segment of road 33 feet in length and is considered to be the smallest component part element in our road details. The length of an elementary piece may be dependent on the resolution of available road map data and thus smaller components may be utilized where available. Levels of PE are calculated for each component part of a path as described below.

The PE h b of an elementary piece b is calculated using three factors 1 the average time it takes a traveler of a particular skill level e.g. a cyclist of a given USA Cycling category l l 1 . . . 5 to traverse the elementary piece based on its percent grade incline 2 the weight of the elementary piece as tied to its percent grade incline and 3 the position of the elementary piece in an ordered set of consecutive elementary pieces of the same percent grade.

The PE of an nelementary piece of a given percent grade in an arc composed of n elementary pieces may be determined using its traversal time t b its initial weight w b its weight adjustment a b and its position n 1 within an ordered set of consecutive elementary pieces of the same percent grade as follows 1 

Travelers e.g. cyclists hikers etc. having different levels of expertise will take different amounts of time to travel distances e.g. elementary pieces having different amounts of incline. The amount of time for travelers of different levels of expertise to travel elementary pieces having differing percent grade inclines i.e. t b can be determined compiled for example as shown below in Table 2.

Similarly a weight is assigned to each elementary piece related to its percent grade incline and the amount of perceived exertion experienced by a cyclist or other form of traveler when traversing. Weight assignments may be based on information gathered from cycling or other forms of travel experts and reflect differences in the perceived exertion level of travelers at various percent grade inclines. For example category cyclists always perceive downhill inclines as less strenuous than uphill inclines while cyclists in lower categories perceive extremely steep inclines as more strenuous due to the energy required to brake. Similarly perceived exertion for other forms of traversing terrain such as hiking varies depending on the incline and the skill level of the traveler. An example of the standard elementary piece weighting scheme and values of perceived exertion for each category of cyclists e.g. w b is shown in Table 3.

In addition to the cyclists or traveler of other travel form traversal time and assigned elementary piece weights based on percent grade incline the position of an elementary piece b is also a factor when calculating its perceived exertion level. The position of an elementary piece is an important factor when calculating its perceived exertion level as when cyclists ride or travelers traverse through other forms of travel on several elementary pieces of a particular percent grade in succession they may perceive that the ride becomes harder as they are required to ride on pieces of high percent grade incline or easier as they ride on pieces of low percent grade incline. To account for this phenomenon each elementary piece of a given grade is also assigned a weight adjustment e.g. a b to be added when it lies within a collection of consecutive pieces with the same percent grade incline. Weight adjustments for elementary pieces of given percent grade by cycling category are shown below in Table 4.

The PE level of arc a h a for a given cycling category l l 1 . . . 5 is calculated as the sum of the PE level of its k elementary pieces 

The PE level of path p h p for a cycling category l l 1 . . . 5 is calculated as the sum of the PE of its c consecutive arcs 

The method of calculating PE of a path for cyclists of different levels of expertise presented above was tested and validated as an appropriate measure of PE and may be similarly employed to calculate PE of a path for various forms of travel which cause differing levels of perceived exertion depending on incline and or skill level of the traveler including for example hiking jogging even driving all terrain or other vehicles as well as many other forms of travel as will readily be understood by those skilled in the relevant fields.

As provided by the present disclosure the level of PE in traversing any elementary piece can be determined based on traveler skill level and the degree of incline. The level of PE in traversing any arc can be determined by summing the levels of PE in traversing the component elementary pieces of the arc and the level of PE for any given travel route can be determined by summing the PE levels of each arc in the travel route. As such a travel route for a traveler having a particular skill level may be optimized for minimal perceived exertion by selecting the path among other possible paths between starting and ending points that is composed of arcs having the lowest total level of perceived exertion for those having the traveler s skill level. Known algorithms such as the label correcting algorithm described by Ahuja for solving shortest path problems on graphs Ahuja R. K. Magnanti T. L. and Orlin J. B. 1993 . Network Flows Theory Algorithms and Applications. Prentice Hall Inc. may be adapted and utilized for optimizing based on perceived exertion.

Further a new form of map may be developed for any geographic area based on the techniques provided by this disclosure which indicates levels of perceived exertion associated with segments e.g. elementary pieces arcs and or paths connecting location points on the map. The map may indicate levels of perceived exertion instead of or in addition to distances between points contour lines or other indicia traditionally included on maps. Such a map may be based on a topographical graph as described herein with nodes indicating points along a traversable road or trail having a change in incline and with perceived exertion being determined based on incline and skill level as described herein. Additionally or alternatively such a map may be based on any map data from which the incline of a segment may be determined with the perceived exertion being determined based on incline and skill level as described herein.

The server may be or include any database capable of storing and or providing access to information such as an electronic database a computer and or computerized server database server or generally any network host capable of storing data and connected to any type of data network. Further the server may include or be a part of a distributed network or cloud computing environment. Any type of electronic and or computerized device that is capable of storing information may be included as the server and is considered within the scope of this disclosure. The server may include computer readable storage media and a processor for processing data and executing algorithms including any of the processes and algorithms set forth in this disclosure. The topographical graph application is electronically accessible over at least one network system . The network system may include any type of network infrastructure such as the Internet or any other wired wireless and or partially wired network. The server application and network system may include a variety of hardware and software components to provide successful functioning of the server and the application as is well known within the art. Further any features characteristics designs and or functions that are known within the art may be included with the system to further enhance its efficiency.

The user computer device may be any computer device that is capable of communicating with the application for example via a network system and may be operated by any person using the system or any representative thereof. Any number of user computer devices may use the system at any given time. The user computer device may access the application through a variety of ways including through a computerized device in communication with the system over a network system. For example the user computer device may be any computer including any personal computer Internet appliance hand held device including palm top computers wearable computers cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems processor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers minicomputers and the like. One or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse microphone touchscreen interface or the like may be used to transmit information to and or request information from the application by the user computer device .

The topographical graph application may be fully or partially hosted on the server . The topographical graph application may include any tool device system process or combination thereof which receives input information e.g. current location start and end points for a desired travel plan etc. from a user and provides users with a topographical graph and or a travel route based on the provided topographical graph. For example the application may receive a desired starting and ending point for a travel plan from a traveler using device and constructs a topographical graph and provides an optimized travel route access to the traveler using device . The application may include any computer readable memory or databases which may be stored in any computer readable medium and may be accessible by a computer processor. The application may further include or access computer program instructions which may cause a processor to perform any algorithms and or functions which may be described in this disclosure.

The system further includes a road map database . The application has access to the road map database which may be fully or partially hosted on the server or may be hosted elsewhere and otherwise accessible to the application . The road map database stores information associated with road maps of a geographic area. As used herein road map generally means any map indicating or from which an indication may be extrapolated distances along roads trails or any other traversable path within a geographic area. The road map database may be a third party provided or publicly accessible database including polyline data such as available through OpenStreetMap OSM . Further the road map database may include information indicating locations of rest stops overnight accommodations and or potential attractions or points of interest to travelers.

An elevation database is further included in the system and includes elevation data associated with a geographic area. The elevation database may be a third party provided or publicly accessible database such as the Digital Elevation Model DEM provided by the U.S. Geological Survey.

The application may include or provide access to a web or network based software platform including a graphical user interface or webpage which provides interactive access to the system to a user of a user computer device . Alternatively or additionally a user computer device may include software providing access to the system . The topographical graph application may be a web based application and may require authorization information such as username and password before allowing the user to access the application . Alternatively the application may be included on the user computer device e.g. as any combination of software and hardware including a processor and computer readable memory for performing the algorithms provided by this disclosure . Additionally the user computer device may include a GPS module for determining a location of the computer device which may be used by the application for example to update the travel plan or route as the traveler progresses through the planned travel plan or route. The user computer device may be a wearable device adapted for comfortable fit and use by cyclists hikers joggers all terrain vehicle users soldiers or others who use modes of travel over terrain which may cause perceived exertion.

A traveler using the user computer device to access the topographic graph application may thus input a desired starting and ending point for a travel plan. Further the user may input a skill level e.g. cycling hiking or other level of expertise which may be a defined level e.g. as with USA cycling categories or may be generally subjective assessments of skill e.g. novice intermediate expert . The application constructs a topographical graph as described above e.g. in and accompanying discussion . That is the application may construct a topographical graph having nodes indicating points along a road or trail where the degree of incline changes and with arcs between nodes having a substantially same degree of incline. The topographical graph may be constructed using information for the geographic area in the road database with reference to corresponding elevation information stored in the elevation database . The constructed topographical graph for any geographic area may be stored in a topographic graph database which may be accessible to users of a user computer device .

The application may further generate an optimized travel plan for the traveler for example based on minimal perceived exertion. A perceived exertion database may be included in the system which is accessible to the application and may be fully or partially hosted on the server or hosted elsewhere and otherwise accessible to the application . The perceived exertion database stores information associating the perceived exertion for travelers of differing skill level when traversing roads having different inclines. For example the perceived exertion database may store associations between skill and percent grade incline such as provided in Tables 2 through 4 above. Using information stored in the perceived exertion database the application may calculate perceived exertion for the traveler based on the traveler s input skill level in traversing various possible elementary pieces and arcs on the topographical graph between the traveler s input starting and ending point. The application may thus generate an optimized travel plan by selecting a travel route having the least perceived exertion between the starting and ending points. Additionally the application may generate an optimized travel plan with consideration of rest areas overnight accommodations points of interest or to avoid which may be input by the traveler.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s of the disclosure without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present disclosure and protected by the following claims.

