---

title: Devices, methods, and computer readable storage devices for providing application services
abstract: Application services associated with a mobile communication device are facilitated by a mediator gateway. A request for providing an application service is received by the mediator gateway. The request is associated with a mobile communication device. The mediator gateway selects a network among a plurality of networks associated with different carriers to which to send the request. The request is translated into an application programming interface request that is specific to a carrier associated with the selected network. The application programming interface request is sent to an application programming interface gateway associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642078&OS=09642078&RS=09642078
owner: AT&T MOBILITY II LLC
number: 09642078
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131025
---
The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more particularly to providing application services.

Over the last decade cellular carriers have developed an increasing number of services to support mobile applications. For example these services include e.g. mobile presence services location based services multimedia messaging service MMS short message service SMS messaging etc. These services have traditionally been accessed by very well defined carrier supported services.

In the last few years enterprises have implemented various methods for developing and deploying mobile applications. In order to facilitate the development and implementation of mobile applications and communication with enterprises to provide access to these services by enterprises carriers have implemented specialized gateways with Application Programming Interfaces APIs that provide a front end to these services. These gateways which are referred to as carrier API gateways allow enterprises to issue requests using high level languages and parameters HLLAPIs and low level language procedural calls LLAPIs . Once requests from enterprises are received by the carrier API gateways the carrier API gateways then issue complex and secure commands for various carrier based services such as presence services location services multimedia messaging service MMS short message service SMS etc. This information is then relayed back to the requesting enterprise using high level APIs or low level APIs. The benefit of this approach is that enterprises supporting mobile applications only have to interface with one API gateway for each carrier as opposed to making multiple calls for location services presence services MMS SMS and other carrier services.

While carrier API gateways simplify the interface to enterprises for providing application services to mobile communication devices the reality is that enterprises are seldom if ever served by a single carrier. Most enterprises utilize at least two carriers and often have three or four carriers supporting their mobile applications.

Currently enterprise servers have to interface with a different carrier API gateway for each carrier with which they contract resulting in a requirement to interface through a plurality of carrier API gateways for a plurality of contracted carriers. This may be understood with reference to .

Referring to an enterprise web and application server referred to hereafter as an enterprise server interfaces with carrier API Gateway A for providing application services for mobile communication devices A and B associated with carrier networks A. Similarly the enterprise server interfaces with carrier API Gateway B for application services for mobile communication devices C and D associated with carrier networks B. The enterprise server communicates with the carrier API gateways A and B via a communication network such as the Internet. The carrier API gateway A is dedicated to carrier and the carrier API gateway B is dedicated to carrier .

Requests from and responses to the enterprise server that are associated with carrier are communicated via the Internet the carrier API gateway A and the carrier networks A. Similarly requests from and responses to the enterprise server that are associated with carrier are communicated via the Internet the carrier API gateway B and the carrier networks B.

Carrier API gateway A and the carrier API gateway B typically have inconsistent communication protocols. Thus the enterprise server must issue requests and interpret responses differently for each carrier API gateway.

As the number of application services grows interfacing with different carrier API gateways becomes cumbersome and inefficient. Furthermore if any given carrier has not implemented an API gateway the enterprise server must then interface directly in a rudimentary fashion with a plurality of single threaded services for smaller carriers.

It should be appreciated that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form the concepts being further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of this disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

According to an illustrative embodiment a device is provided for providing an application service. The device includes a processor and a memory having stored thereon instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform operations. The operations include receiving a request for providing an application service. The request is associated with a mobile communication device. The operations also include selecting a network among a plurality of networks associated with different carriers to which to send the request translating the request into an application programming interface request that is specific to a carrier associated with the selected network and sending the application programming interface request to an application programming interface gateway associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network.

According to another illustrative embodiment a method is provided for providing application services. The method includes receiving by a mediator gateway a request for providing an application service. The request is associated with a mobile communication device. The method further includes selecting a network among a plurality of networks associated with different carriers to which to send the request translating the request into an application programming interface request that is specific to a carrier associated with the selected network and sending the application programming interface request to an application programming interface gateway associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network.

According to another illustrative embodiment a computer readable storage device is provided that has instruction stored thereon which when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations for providing application services. The operations include receiving a request for providing an application service. The request is associated with a mobile communication device. The operations also include selecting a network among a plurality of networks associated with different carriers to which to send the request translating the request into an application programming interface request that is specific to a carrier associated with the selected network and sending the application programming interface request to an application programming interface gateway associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network.

Detailed illustrative embodiments are disclosed herein. It must be understood that the embodiments described and illustrated are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein the word illustrative is used expansively to refer to embodiments that serve as examples or illustrations. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized to show details of particular components. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting.

According to an illustrative embodiment a mediator for API gateways referred to hereafter as a mediator gateway is provided. The mediator gateway communicates with a plurality of enterprise servers using a single MetaAPI interprogram logical interface.

The mediator gateway employs a single enterprise and carrier independent interprogram protocol boundary and set of interprogram requests replies data calls and administrative calls. The mediator gateway translates requests from the enterprise servers into a plurality of carrier specific API requests replies data calls and administrative calls. The mediator gateway provides the enterprise servers with a single interface to a plurality of carrier specific API gateways. The mediator gateway is a stateful machine that can simulate a plurality of carrier networks.

Illustrative embodiments may be understood with reference to which illustrates an environment in which a mediator gateway may be implemented. Referring to a mediator gateway resides outside of the carrier networks A and B and functions in a domain placed between the carrier API gateways A and B and the enterprise server . According to illustrative embodiments the mediator gateway communicates with the enterprise server via a communication network such as the Internet . The mediator gateway also communicates with the carrier API gateways A and B via a communication network such as the Internet . Alternatively the mediator gateway may communicate with the carrier API gateways A and B over carrier dedicated multiprotocol label switching MPLS connection not illustrated .

The mediator gateway may be implemented with a computing device such as that shown in . The enterprise server and carrier API gateways A and B may be implemented with computing devices similar to that shown in . The mobile communication devices may be implemented with any communication device that is provided with application services e.g. smartphones laptops tablets etc.

Although one mediator gateway is shown for simplicity of illustration it should be appreciated that there may be any number of distributed mediator gateways. Also although only one enterprise server is shown for simplicity of illustration it should be appreciated that any number of enterprise servers may communicate with the carrier API gateways A and B via the mediator gateway . Similarly it should be appreciated that any number of carrier networks with respective carrier API gateways may be used and any number of mobile communication devices may be provided with application services.

Further although the carrier networks A are illustrated as including a 2G 3G Radio Access Network RAN and a Long Term Evolution LTE RAN and the carrier networks B are illustrated as including a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA RAN and an LTE RAN it should be appreciated that this is by way of example. The carrier networks A and B may be implemented with any suitable cellular network or combination of cellular networks. Such cellular networks may operate according a protocol dictated by telecommunications standards such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . It should be understood however that the networks A and B may also be implemented using wireless networks that use any existing or yet to be developed telecommunications technology. For example some other suitable cellular telecommunications technologies include but are not limited to Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers. In addition other types networks may be used e.g. Wireless LAN WLAN either alone or in combination with the cellular networks. Further although not shown for simplicity of illustration it should be appreciated that the carrier networks A and B include servers and other components for providing carrier various services such as location services presence services emergency services MMS SMS etc.

According to illustrative embodiments the mediator gateway maintains a database storing information about the mobile communication devices A B C and D. The database keeps track of the locations of the mobile communication devices A B C D events associated with the mobile communication devices e.g. purchases carriers that are serving the mobile communication devices etc. The mediator gateway also maintains a database that keeps track of the status of the carrier networks A and B. Also the mediator gateway contains a catalog or database of all APIs.

According to an illustrative embodiment when the mediator gateway receives a request from the enterprise server for providing an application service associated with a mobile communication device the mediator gateway determines a carrier that provides service to that mobile communication device e.g. based on information stored by the mediator gateway or based on information specified within the received request. The mediator gateway then translates the request from the enterprise server into an API request that is specific to the carrier that serves the mobile communication device with which the request is associated. The mediator gateway sends the translated carrier specific API request to the carrier API gateway associated with the carrier that serves the mobile communication device associated with the request.

In addition to determining the carrier that serves the mobile communication device associated with the request from the enterprise the mediator gateway selects a network operated by that carrier to use based on the request. For this purpose the mediator gateway consults a database e.g. the database shown in that maintains carrier network status and determines which network operated by the carrier will provide the best performance e.g. the best quality of service for fulfilling the request.

When the API request is fulfilled an API response may be sent back to the carrier API gateway and then to the mediator gateway . The mediator gateway in turn may translate the API response to a response that is not specific to the carrier and then relay the response to the enterprise server via the Internet . As an alternative the API response may be delivered directly from the carrier API gateway to the enterprise server via the Internet bypassing the mediator gateway . The decision as to whether or not the API response is sent to the mediator gateway or directly to the enterprise server may be made in advance by the mediator gateway based on predefined rules or at the time of the request based on current carrier network availability quality of service metrics and or parameters included within the request. For example the request may include security parameters that indicate whether the response should be sent to the mediator gateway . The best network route may also be taken into to consideration in determining whether the response should be sent directly to the enterprise server . For example if there is congestion between a carrier API gateway and the mediator gateway then the response may bypass the mediator gateway . In some cases the request from the enterprise server may dictate that the response be delivered directly to the enterprise server .

To understand the flow of requests and responses via the mediator gateway consider a scenario in which the enterprise server sends a query for a location of the mobile communication device A to the mediator gateway . The mediator gateway determines that the request is associated with the mobile communication device A and determines that the mobile communication device A is served by carrier . Depending upon parameters of the request e.g. a desired quality of service QoS the mediator gateway selects a network among the networks operated by the carrier e.g. either the 2G 3G RAN or the LTE RAN to which to send the request. The mediator gateway translates the request into an API request that is specific to the carrier API gateway A. The translated request is sent to the carrier API gateway A and the carrier API gateway A relays the request to the mobile communication device A via the selected network among the carrier networks A.

The mobile communication device A replies with a response indicating its location and the response is sent as an API response to the carrier API gateway A via the selected network among the carrier networks A. Based upon the parameters of the initial request the API response is then sent to the mediator gateway to be translated into a non carrier specific API response that will be passed onto the enterprise server or the API response is sent directly from the carrier API gateway to the enterprise server .

To further understand the flow of requests and responses described above consider an illustrative example in which the enterprise server is a server for a soft drink distributor. The soft drink distributor enterprise server may send a request to the mediator gateway querying the location of mobile communication device A. The request may include a request for preferences of the mobile communication device A with regard to soft drinks. Upon receipt of the request via the carrier API gateway A and a selected network among the carrier networks A the mobile communication device A fulfills the request and sends a reply indicating its location and soft drink preferences of a user of the mobile communication device. The reply is received by the soft drink distributor enterprise server either via the carrier API gateway A or via a combination of the carrier API A gateway and the mediator gateway . The soft drink distributor enterprise server may then issue a request to vending machines that are associated with the soft drink distributor and are within proximity of the mobile communication device A to prepare to have the soft drinks preferred by the user of the mobile communication device ready for purchase. The request is relayed to the vending machine in a manner similar to the way in which the initial request is relayed to the mobile communication device A. The mediator gateway makes it possible for the soft drink distributor enterprise server to issue only one request to the vending machine and to the mobile communication device A though there may be vending machines associated with the soft drink distributor that are associated with different carriers.

As noted above the mediator gateway keeps track of the status of the carrier networks A and B. According to an illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway may simulate a network if the mobile communication device for which application services are to be provided is out of coverage e.g. because of a dead cell or if the mobile communication device cannot be reached e.g. because of a dead battery in the mobile communication device. For example if a request for providing application services associated with a mobile communication device is received but the mobile communication device is out of coverage or cannot be reached the mediator gateway may keep the conversation going with the enterprise server in accordance with pre defined rules and profiles. In other words the mediator gateway is a stateful machine that can simulate operations for the carrier networks A and B and the carrier API gateways and B if needed. For example if the application service to be provided is a location based service the mediator gateway may predict a location of the mobile excommunication device for providing the location based services based e.g. on a last reported location of the mobile communication device or the location of a last event associated with the mobile communication device.

The mediator gateway may also take a number of predefined set of user actions if a mobile communication device is out of coverage. The mobile communication device user may opt in and opt out of a service that would allow the mediator gateway to take certain actions. For example a mobile communication device may opt out of allowing an enterprise server to provide application services if the location of the mobile communication device is not known.

According to an illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway also interfaces with virtual desktop interface VDI servers and integrates carrier API services. This is useful for a case in which a mobile communication device does not have a particular application which the enterprise server can send requests to and receive responses from. In this case the mobile communication device may have an image of the application service provide by the enterprise server. The mobile communication device acts as a client of a VDI server for this application service and the VDI server handles requests for the application service and provides responses on behalf of the mobile communication device. The mediator gateway recognizes that the mobile communication device does not have the application but rather is a client of the VDI server. The mediator gateway may store and provide a parallel virtual image of all mobile communication device data transmissions to other web servers or applications residing on the Internet or at the enterprise server . This is made possible because the mediator gateway maintains a real time virtual image of all the data that are being transmitted to and received from the mobile communication device. This enables a mobile communication device to have several VDI sessions with multiple servers and potentially multiple enterprise servers at the same time thus creating a truly mobile virtual environment.

According to another illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway may accelerate network performance. For example if a mobile communication device operates in a slow network the mediator gateway may enhance data transmission speed by using data compression and other techniques to accelerate network performance.

According to another illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway provides a point of presence in the network such that mediator gateways communicating via the Internet worldwide can access and provision users of mobile communication devices. The mediator gateway may also act as a carrier core network element single point of presence that handles provisioning of mobile communication devices for a plurality of different carriers.

According to another illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway provides enhanced authentication services for mobile communication devices. For example the mediator gateway may be able to authenticate a mobile communication device if the device is out of coverage for a certain amount of time. This may be facilitated by the mediator gateway performing a velocity check . As illustrative example consider a scenario in which a mobile communication device is used to purchase a soft drink from a vending machine. Information may be received from a first vending machine at a first location indicating that the mobile communication device was used to purchase a soft drink from the first vending machine. Then information may be received from a second vending machine at a second location one thousand miles away from the first location indicating that the same mobile communication device was used to purchase a soft drink from the second vending machine forty five minutes after the purchase from the first vending machine. As it would not be possible for the mobile communication device to be at the first location and travel to the second location that is one thousand miles away in forty five minutes the mediator gateway can determine that there is fraud without having to know the particular of the location of the mobile communication device. The mediator gateway may then provide a fraud alert to e.g. to a carrier operator providing cellular service to the mobile communication device and or to the enterprise server with which the vending machine is associated.

According to another illustrative embodiment the mediator gateway provides enhanced encrypted service to mobile communication devices. For the purpose the mediator gateway may maintain a database for API services that include encryption carrier selection network service selection quality of service etc. Carriers already provide authentication and encryption based on the location of the device. The mediator gateway may provide enhanced encryption e.g. symmetric or asymmetric public key virtual private network etc. The determination as to which encryption method to use may be based upon provisioning parameters. These parameters may be determined when linkages to the carrier API gateways A and B are initially provisioned such that the mediator gateway provides encryption according to the carrier API gateway with which it communicates.

As an illustrative example consider again the scenario involving a vending machine. A mobile communication device may include an application which a user of the mobile commination device may use to report a bad experience with a soft drink. This information may be reported to the enterprise server e.g. a server of a soft drink distributor. The enterprise server of the soft drink distributor may query the location of the mobile communication device via the mediator gateway . When the location of the mobile communication device is reported to the enterprise server of the soft drink distributor via e.g. the mediator gateway the enterprise server of the soft drink distributor may then send a request to provide a coupon to the mobile communication device. The mediator gateway receives this request and then sends the coupon to the mobile communication device via a selected carrier network and carrier API gateway. The mediator gateway may provide apply encryption to the coupon in addition to that provided by the carrier.

Although the description above is directed to providing application services to mobile communication devices A B C D it should be appreciated that the embodiments may be applicable to any environment in which an enterprise seeks to provide application services to entities that are capable of communicating via e.g. the Internet . For example consider an airline that has an enterprise server and plane manufacturing entities that are equipped with API gateways. Each of the manufacturing entities may be involved with manufacturing different parts of a plane. The airline may have ordered a new plane and may want to know the status of production. Rather than having to send queries to each of the different manufacturing entities the airline may send one query to the mediator gateway . The mediator may translate the query into appropriate queries for each of the multiple manufacturing entities and may send the translated queries to the manufacturing entities via their respective API gateways which may be similar to carrier API gateways A and B. The manufacturing entities may respond with the status of the parts that each of the entities are producing via the respective API gateway which may be similar to the carrier API gateways A and B and the mediator gateway may then send this response back to the enterprise server of the airline.

It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented. While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software in addition to or instead of computer readable instructions.

The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules program components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers handheld computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like. The terminology computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims can include volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media such as for example RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store information that can be accessed by the components shown in excluding propagating signals.

Referring to the computing device includes a processor that receives requests from an enterprise server for providing application services transmits a translated request to the carrier API gateways A and B receives a response from the carrier API gateways A and B and sends a translated response to the enterprise server via the I O data ports . The I O Data Ports can be implemented with e.g. an interface including an antenna or other suitable type of transceiver through which data and signals may be transmitted and received wired and or wirelessly.

The computing device also includes a physical hard drive . The processor communicates with the memory and the hard drive via e.g. an address data bus not shown . The processor can be any commercially available or custom microprocessor. The memory is is representative of the overall hierarchy of memory devices containing the software and data used to implement the functionality of the device . The memory can include but is not limited to the types of memory devices described above. As shown in the memory may include several categories of software and data used in the device including applications a database an operating system OS and input output I O device drivers .

The I O device drivers may include various routines accessed through at least one of the OS by the applications to communicate with devices and certain memory components.

The applications can be stored in the memory and or in a firmware not shown as executable instructions and can be executed by the processor . The applications include various programs that implement the various features of the device . For example the applications may include applications for receiving requests for providing application services from an enterprise server determining a carrier serving a mobile communication device associated with the request selecting a network associated with the carrier translating the request and sending the request as described above. The applications may also include applications for receiving a response translating the response and sending the response as described above.

The database represents the static and dynamic data used by the applications the OS the I O device drivers and other software programs that may reside in the memory. The database may may be used to store e.g. information regarding the locations of mobile communication devices the status of networks carriers associated with mobile communication devices etc.

While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that at least a portion of the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system for example another server in communication with the processor via the Internet a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium combinations thereof and the like. Thus any of the data applications and or software described above can be stored within the memory and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown that may include a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN for example.

Although details of the carrier API gateways A and B are not illustrated it should be appreciated that a carrier API gateway may be implemented with a computing device having features similar to those illustrated and described with reference to . In particular a computing device within a carrier API gateway may comprise a memory including applications for performing various processes described above. The computing device in the carrier API gateway may also include a processor for executing such applications.

Similarly although details of an enterprise server are not illustrated it should be appreciated that an enterprise server may be implemented with a computing device having features similar to those illustrated and described with reference to . In particular a computing device within the enterprise server may comprise a memory including applications for performing various processes described above. The computing device in the enterprise server may also include a processor for executing such applications.

Referring to the method beings at step at which a request for providing an application service associated with a mobile communication device such as mobile communication devices A B C and D is received e.g. by the mediator gateway . The request is received e.g. from the enterprise server . At step the mediator gateway selects a network among the plurality of networks associated with different carriers e.g. carrier networks A and carrier networks B to which to send the request. Although not illustrated this step may be performed after determining which carrier serves the mobile communication device with which the request is associated. At step the mediator gateway request is translated into an API request that is specific to the carrier associated with the selected network. At step the mediator gateway sends the API request to a carrier API gateway associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network.

At step a response is received that is associated with the mobile communication device such as mobile communication devices A B C D. At step a determination is made whether the API response should be sent to the mediator gateway or directly to the enterprise server . This determination may be made in advance by the mediator gateway as described above.

If it is determined that the API response should not be sent to the mediator gateway then at step the response is sent directly to the enterprise server bypassing the mediator gateway . If it is determined at step that the API response should be sent to the mediator gateway then at step the mediator gateway receives the response from the carrier API gateway that is associated with the carrier that is associated with the selected network. At step the mediator gateway translates the API response into a response that is not specific to the carrier that is associated with the selected network. At step the translated response is sent to the enterprise server .

According to illustrative embodiments the mediator gateway offers several advantages. For example use of the mediator gateway results in a significant reduction in constituent mobile carrier hardware software and system customization and maintenance efforts. The mediator gateway also results in improved accessibility of a plurality of mobile communication devices and applications across heterogeneous mobility carrier operating runtime platforms and environments The mediator gateway provide provides improvements in quality of service for mobile communication device users and allows for connected application persistence and throughput resulting in a general improvement in mobile communication device user experience. The mediator gateway may also provide significant capital and operating expenditure savings for enterprises and carriers which benefit individual mobile communication device users in terms of lowering subscription plan rates.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely illustrative illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

