---

title: Content interchange bus
abstract: Disclosed is a content interchange bus that is configured for (i) receiving a first content creation request from a client, the first content creation request including a first content object that includes data intended for distribution, a first metadata name/value pair describing the first content object, and a second metadata name/value pair describing a first content container; (ii) creating the first content container in the cloud storage platform; (iii) storing the first content object in the cloud storage platform; (iv) receiving a first message from the client, the first message including the first content container's uniform resource identifier and/or the first content object's uniform resource identifier, the message including a topic string that includes a first routing string; and (v) routing the first message to a first subscriber based at least partially on the topic string including the first routing string.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09170996&OS=09170996&RS=09170996
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09170996
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130516
---
The present invention embraces a system for exchanging content via messages. The system typically includes a content interchange bus for routing messages. Messages may include one or more pointers to content stored in a cloud storage platform. These pointers may then be used to retrieve content from the cloud storage platform.

In many business transactions it is often necessary to exchange large amounts of structured and or unstructured data. For example in the mortgage industry many documents must be completed and or provided as part of the loan application process. In electronic form the total size of these documents can be substantial e.g. several gigabytes . Various messaging systems can provide for the exchange of documents however these messaging systems typically allow for limited message payloads and thus are typically inadequate for large content transfers e.g. due to large documents and or a large volume of documents . Accordingly a need exists for an improved way of transferring large content between parties.

In one aspect the present invention embraces a system for exchanging content via messages. The system typically includes a content interchange bus that includes a processor a memory and a messaging module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The messaging module is typically configured for receiving a first content creation request from a client the first content creation request including a first content object that includes i data intended for distribution ii a first metadata name value pair describing the first content object and iii a second metadata name value pair describing a first content container. The messaging module is typically configured for creating the first content container in a cloud storage platform the first content container defining a uniform resource identifier indicating its location in the cloud storage platform and storing the first content object in the cloud storage platform the first content object defining a uniform resource identifier indicating its location in the cloud storage platform. The messaging is also typically configured for storing a subscription list the subscription list associating a first subscriber with a first routing string.

Subsequently the messaging module receives a first message from the client. The first message typically includes the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier. The message also typically includes a topic string that includes the first routing string. Based at least partially upon the topic string including the first routing string the messaging module routes the first message to the first subscriber. Later the messaging module receives a first content retrieval request from the first subscriber the first content retrieval request including the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier. Based at least partially upon the first content retrieval request including the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier the messaging module provides a copy of the first content object to the first subscriber.

In another aspect the present invention embraces a method for exchanging content via messages. The method typically includes receiving a first content creation request from a client the first content creation request including a first content object that includes i data intended for distribution ii a first metadata name value pair describing the first content object and iii a second metadata name value pair describing a first content container creating the first content container in a cloud storage platform the first content container defining a uniform resource identifier indicating its location in the cloud storage platform storing the first content object in the cloud storage platform the first content object defining a uniform resource identifier indicating its location in the cloud storage platform storing a subscription list the subscription list associating a first subscriber with a first routing string receiving a first message from the client the first message including the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier the message including a topic string that includes the first routing string routing the first message to the first subscriber based at least partially on the topic string including the first routing string receiving a first content retrieval request from the first subscriber the first content retrieval request including the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier and providing a copy of the first content object to the first subscriber based at least partially upon the first content retrieval request including the first content container s uniform resource identifier and or the first content object s uniform resource identifier.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Furthermore when it is said herein that something is based on something else it may be based on one or more other things as well. In other words unless expressly indicated otherwise as used herein based on means based at least in part on or based at least partially on. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term electronic data as used herein includes any information electronically stored or produced. For example electronic data may include but is not limited to mechanical facsimile electronic magnetic digital or other programs private commercial work in progress etc. programming notes instructions listings of electronic mail receipts output resulting from the use of any software program including word processing documents spreadsheets database files charts graphs and outlines electronic mail or e mail personal digital assistant PDA messages instant messenger messages operating systems source code of all types programming languages linkers and compilers peripheral drives PDF files PRF files batch files ASCII files crosswalks code keys pull down tables logs file layouts and any and all miscellaneous files or file fragments deleted file or file fragment. Electronic data may also include any and all items stored on computer memory or memories hard disks floppy disks zip drives CD ROM discs Bernoulli Boxes and their equivalents magnetic tapes of all types and kinds microfiche punched cards punched tape computer chips including but not limited to EPROM PROM ROM and RAM of any kind on or in any other vehicle for digital data storage or transmittal files folder tabs or containers and labels appended to or associated with any physical storage device associated with each original and each copy.

Furthermore embodiments of the present invention use the term subscriber. It will be appreciated by someone with ordinary skill in the art that the user may be an individual law firm financial institution government organization corporation or other entity that may wish to receive electronic data e.g. electronic documents . Embodiments of the present invention also use the term client to describe a company business financial institution individual or other entity that wishes to distribute electronic data e.g. electronic documents . For example the client may be a financial institution desiring to distribute document relating to a loan application process. Clients and subscribers may be part of the same organization or different organizations.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the terms financial institution and financial entity include any organization that processes financial transactions including but not limited to banks credit unions savings and loan associations investment companies stock brokerages assess management firms insurance companies and the like. In specific embodiments of the invention use of the term bank is limited to a financial entity in which account bearing customers conduct financial transactions such as account deposits withdrawals transfers and the like.

Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of businesses that wish to receive or distribute electronic data.

In one aspect the present invention embraces a method of exchanging content via messages. In another aspect the present invention embraces a system that can be used to exchange content via messages. In this regard depict a method of exchanging content via messages in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Moreover depicts a system for exchanging content via messages in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The system for exchanging content via messages is typically configured to perform one or more steps of the method of exchanging content via messages.

As depicted in the system typically includes a content interchange bus that is in communication with a cloud storage platform . One or more clients A B and one or more subscribers A C are typically in communication with the content interchange bus .

As illustrated in the content interchange bus typically includes a communication device a processor e.g. a processing device and a memory e.g. a memory device . As used herein the term processor generally includes circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of the particular system. For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processor is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory . The processor uses the communication device to communicate with the cloud storage platform and with the one or more clients A B and one or more subscribers A C. As such the communication device generally includes a modem server or other device for communicating with the cloud storage platform and with the one or more clients A B and one or more subscribers A C. Each client and subscriber may use any suitable device for communicating with the content interchange bus . For example a client or subscriber may use a suitable communication device including mobile devices such as a cellular telecommunications device e.g. a cell phone or mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA a mobile Internet accessing device or other user system including but not limited to pagers televisions gaming devices laptop computers desktop computers cameras video recorders audio video player radio GPS devices any combination of the aforementioned or the like.

The content interchange bus also typically includes a messaging module stored in the memory e.g. in the form of computer readable instructions stored in the memory . The messaging module is typically configured to perform one or more steps of the method depicted in .

The cloud storage platform may allow for on demand network access to a shared pool of content provided by clients and or subscribers in the form of cloud resources e.g. networks servers storage services etc. . The network access may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network. The content may include structured and or unstructured data that a client wishes to provide to one or more subscribers. The content may also include structured and or unstructured data provided by one or more subscribers. The cloud storage platform may support one or more protocols such as web based protocols e.g. representational state transfer REST and web service WS and traditional file system protocols e.g. Network File System NFS and Common Internet File System CIFS for uploading and downloading content.

Any suitable cloud storage platform may be employed. In this regard the cloud storage platform may take the form of several different models. These models may include but are not limited to the private model public model community model and hybrid model. In some embodiments the cloud storage platform may be provided in a private model. The private model allows the cloud storage platform to only be used only be a single entity. In some embodiments the cloud storage platform may be provided in a public model. The public model allows the cloud storage platform to be available to the public or to multiple entities. In some embodiments the cloud storage platform may be provided in a community model. The community model allows the cloud storage platform to be accessed and or used by a group of related entities. In some embodiments the cloud storage platform may be provided in a hybrid model. In the hybrid model the cloud storage platform may be used both publicly and privately based on the provider s requests.

In this regard depicts direct access to the cloud storage platform being limited to the content interchange bus . In other words the content interchange bus may act as an intermediary between the cloud storage platform and the clients A B and subscribers A C. That said it within the scope of the present invention for the clients A B and subscribers A C to have direct access to the cloud storage platform .

As noted depict a method of exchanging content via messages in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

In step a content creation request is receiving from a client e.g. from the first client A or the second client B . The content creation request may be received by the content interchange bus or by the cloud storage platform . The content creation request includes a first content object. Alternatively the content creation request may include a plurality of content objects.

Each content object typically includes data intended for distribution e.g. to one or more subscribers a first metadata name value pair describing the first content object and a second metadata name value pair describing a first content container. The data may be any structured and or unstructured data that the client wishes to distribute to one or more subscribers. For example the data may be one or more electronic documents. The first metadata name value pair describes the information contained in the data so that it can be understood and processed. In one embodiment the first metadata name value pair may allow for the data to be automatically understood and processed by a computing system e.g. by a computing system operated by a subscriber . The second metadata name value pair identifies a content container e.g. a folder to which the first content object is associated. Each content container may be associated with one or more content objects.

A logical view of an exemplary content object is depicted in . As depicted in the exemplary content object includes object data which is intended for distribution and a plurality of metadata name value pairs.

Based upon the needs of clients and subscribers it is within the scope of the present invention for content objects to include additional metadata name value pairs e.g. as depicted in . For example in one embodiment the first content object may include a third metadata name value pair that describes a deletion tag. This deletion tag is typically set to a retain value which indicates to the cloud storage platform that the first content object should be retained and not deleted. In the event that the deletion tag s value is changed to a delete value the cloud storage platform will then typically schedule the first content object for deletion e.g. to delete the content object after a predetermined period of time .

If a content object is intended to be accessed by a plurality of users e.g. by a plurality of subscribers then the content object may have a plurality of deletion tags e.g. metadata value pairs each of which is each of which is associated with a particular user. Once a user specific deletion tag has been set to a delete value the user s permission to access the content object is removed instead of scheduling the content object for deletion. That said once all of a content object s user specific deletion tags have been set to a delete value the content object may then be scheduled for deletion.

In one embodiment the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform may authenticate the identity of the client and determine whether the client is authorized to upload content. In this regard any suitable way of authenticating the identity of the client and determining that the client is authorized is within the scope of the present invention. For example the client may provide a username and password to establish authentication and authorization. The Security Assertion Markup Language SAML may be used to exchange authentication and authorization information e.g. via tokens . In addition a secured connection between a user and the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform is typically provided to ensure a secure transmission channel e.g. for a content object or content container .

If the first content container which was identified in the first content object has not yet been created then in step the first content container is created in the cloud storage platform . If the first content container identified in the content object already exists then this step may be skipped. In either case the first content container typically defines a uniform resource identifier URI which indicates the location of the first content container in the cloud storage platform. In other words the URI acts as a pointer to the location of the content container in the cloud storage platform. The first content container s URI may subsequently be used by a user e.g. a client or a subscriber to access the content container. Accordingly each content container typically has a unique URI.

A logical view of an exemplary content container is depicted in . As depicted in the exemplary content container includes one or more content objects. In one embodiment instead of including the content objects themselves the content container may include a reference e.g. a location pointer to the content objects that are associated with the content container . The exemplary content container also includes one or more metadata name value pairs. For example the content container may include a first metadata name value pair describes the information e.g. content objects contained in the content container so that it can be understood and processed. The content container may also include a second metadata name value pair that describes a deletion tag. This deletion tag is typically set to a retain value which indicates to the cloud storage platform that the first content container should be retained and not deleted. In the event that the deletion tag s value is changed to a delete value the cloud storage platform will then typically schedule the first content container and all of the content objects associated with the first content container for deletion.

In step the first content object is stored in the cloud storage platform . Typically the first content object is stored within the first content container e.g. folder identified in the first metadata name value pair to which the first content object is associated. The first content object typically defines a uniform resource identifier URI which indicates the location of the first content object in the cloud storage platform. In other words the URI acts as a pointer to the location of the first content object in the cloud storage platform. The content object s URI may subsequently be used by a user e.g. a client or a subscriber to access the content object. Accordingly each content object typically has a unique URI.

In one embodiment the cloud storage platform may be configured to automatically delete content objects and or content containers after a predetermined period of time e.g. several months or years . Accordingly content may not remain stored in cloud storage platform indefinitely.

In step one or more subscription lists are stored. In one embodiment one or more subscription lists are stored in the cloud storage platform . Alternatively one or more subscriptions lists may be stored in the memory of the content interchange bus . Each subscription list includes one or more routing strings. Each routing string includes one or more characters words phrases and or the like to identify one or more users to which a particular message should be routed. Each subscription list also includes the identity and routing information for one or more users e.g. one or more of the clients A B and the subscribers A C associated with each routing string. By way of example a subscription list may indicate that i a first subscriber A is associated with a first routing string ii a the first subscriber A and a third subscriber C are associated with a second routing string and iii the first client A is associated with a third routing string. In one embodiment a client may upload a subscription list to the cloud storage platform and or to the content interchange bus . In another embodiment a subscription list may be updated after a client sends a request to the content interchange bus to change a subscription list e.g. to add a routing string remove a routing string add subscribers associated with a routing string and or remove subscribers associated with a routing string .

In step a first message is received by the content interchange bus from the client e.g. from the first client A . The message may be automatically generated by the client e.g. automatically generated by an application using a client computing device or manually generated by the client. The message typically includes a topic string and a payload. The topic string in the message typically includes a routing string contained in a subscription list. The topic string may also include one or more action strings. Each action string is more or characters that can be recognized by the recipient s of the message. For example the action string may be automatically recognized by a recipient application e.g. a subscriber application so that the application can automatically process e.g. queue the message. The payload of the message typically includes one or more uniform resource identifiers URIs where each URI corresponds to the location of a content object e.g. the first content object or a content container e.g. the first content container in the cloud storage platform . Because the first message includes a URI e.g. a pointer corresponding to the location of a content object or a content container in the cloud storage platform the first message does not need to include a copy of the content object or the content container itself.

The content interchange bus is typically able to send and receive any type of message that is suitable for use with the present invention. For example the content interchange bus may be capable of receiving instant messages.

To ensure that messages are authentic and only accessed by authorization user the messages may employ public key infrastructure PKI . For example authentication of a message sender and recipient e.g. a client or a subscriber may be provided through the user of digital certificates. In addition public key encryption may be used to ensure that the contents of a message can only be accessed by an authorized user.

Next in step the first message is routed e.g. transmitted to one or more users e.g. one or more of the clients A B and the subscribers A C by the content interchange bus based upon the message s topic string. For example the first message may be routed to a first subscriber. In order to route the first message the content interchange bus determines if the message s topic string includes a routing string found in a subscription list. If the message s topic string includes a routing string found in a subscription list the message is then transmitted to each user e.g. the first subscriber that is associated with that routing string in the subscription list.

If the message s topic string does not include a routing string found in a subscription list the message is typically not routed to a user. Instead an error message is transmitted to the sender of the message e.g. the client . This error message indicates to the sender that the message could not be routed because its topic string does not include a valid routing string.

Subsequently in step a content retrieval request is received e.g. by the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform from a user e.g. by the first subscriber . The content request may be automatically generated by a user during the processing of a received message e.g. after recognizing an action string . The content retrieval request typically includes one or more uniform resource identifiers URIs where each URI corresponds to the location of a content object e.g. the first content object or a content container e.g. the first content container in the cloud storage platform . Typically the URIs were previously provided to the user in a message e.g. a message from a client and routed to the user by the content interchange bus .

In this regard the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform may be configured to determine if each URI contained in the content retrieval request is valid i.e. corresponds to a content object or content container located in the cloud storage platform . If any URI is invalid a notification indicating that one or more URIs is invalid may be transmitted to the user e.g. subscriber that sent the content retrieval request. This notification may be in the form of a message that is routed by the content interchange bus using a subscription list.

In step the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform determines if the sender e.g. the first subscriber of the content retrieval request is authorized to access each content object and or content container associated with each URI included in the content retrieval request. In this regard any suitable way of authenticating the identity of the sender of the content retrieval request e.g. the first subscriber and determining that the sender of the content retrieval request is authorized is within the scope of the present invention. For example the content interchange bus and or the cloud storage platform may track which users are allowed access to which content objects and content containers e.g. by employing subscription lists . The identity of the sender may then be compared against a list of users that are authorized to access each content object and content container referred to in the content retrieval request. The sender may provide a username and password to establish authentication and authorization.

If the sender of the content retrieval request is not authorized to access any content object and or content container associated with the one or more URIs contained in the content retrieval request then in step the content retrieval request may be canceled. In addition a notification indicating that the content retrieval request has been canceled may be transmitted to the sender of the content retrieval request. This notification may be in the form of a message that is routed by the content interchange bus using a subscription list.

If the sender of the content retrieval request is authorized to access some but not all of the content objects and or content containers associated with the one or more URIs contained in the content retrieval request then a notification indicating such may be transmitted to the sender of the content retrieval request. This notification may be in the form of a message that is routed by the content interchange bus using a subscription list.

By determining if the sender of the content retrieval request is authorized an unauthorized individual or entity who acquires the URI for a content object or content container will not be able to gain access to that content object or content container without the permission to do so.

In step for each content object URI in the content retrieval request a copy of that content object associated with that content object URI is transmitted e.g. using a secure transmission channel to the sender e.g. to a sender application of the content retrieval request if the sender is authorized to access that content object. In addition for each content container URI in the content retrieval request a copy of the content container associated with that content container URI including a copy of each content object associated with the content container is transmitted to the sender e.g. the first subscriber if the sender is authorized to access that content container. By providing a copy of content objects and content containers instead of direct access asynchronous access to the same content objects and or content containers can be provided to a plurality of users e.g. subscribers and clients .

After receiving a copy of the content object or content container the sender of the content retrieval request may then automatically process the content object or content container. An action string in a message that triggered the content retrieval request may aid a sender application in knowing how to process data in the content object or content container.

Although a copy of one or more content objects is typically provided to an authorized sender of a content retrieval request the sender is typically unable to alter or modify a content object or content container that is stored in the cloud storage platform . That said it is within the scope of the present invention for the content retrieval request to include a deletion request related to one or more content objects or content containers. If the content retrieval request includes a deletion request then the deletion tag i.e. the third metadata name value pair for each content object and content container referred to in the deletion request may be set to a deletion value. Subsequently the cloud storage platform may delete each content object and content container based upon the deletion tag being set to a deletion value. Accordingly a subscriber or a client may be able delete a content object and or content container once it is no longer needed. That said in the event that a content object or content container has a plurality of user specific deletion tags setting a deletion tag specific to a particular user to a deletion value will instead have the effect of removing that user s permission to access the content object. Once all of a content object s or content container s user specific deletion tags have been set to a delete value the content object or content container may then be scheduled for deletion.

In some embodiments a subscriber may wish to provide a modified version of a content object or a new content object to another user e.g. to the client that uploaded the original content object to the cloud storage platform . For example the subscriber may wish to modify an electronic document uploaded by a client or provided a new electronic document to the client. By way of further example a subscriber application may automatically wish to upload a modified version of a content object or a new content object generated after processing a content object. Accordingly in step the content interchange bus or the cloud storage platform may receive e.g. using a secure transmission channel a new or modified content object from the subscriber e.g. in the form of content creation request . The new or modified content object typically includes data intended for distribution a first metadata name value pair describing the new or modified content object and a second metadata name value pair describing a content container. The first metadata name value pair describes the information contained in the data so that it can be understood and processed. The second metadata name value pair identifies a content container e.g. a folder to which the content object is associated. For a modified content object the second metadata name value pair will typically identify the same content container as the original version of the content object.

In step the new or modified content object is stored in the cloud storage platform . Typically the new or modified content object is stored within the content container e.g. folder identified in the first metadata name value pair to which the content object is associated. The content object defines a uniform resource identifier URI which indicates the location of the content object in the cloud storage platform. For a modified content object the URI will typically differ from the URI of the original content object.

In step a message is received by the content interchange bus from the subscriber. The message typically includes a topic string and a payload. The topic string in the message typically includes a routing string contained in a subscription list. The payload of the message typically includes one or more uniform resource identifiers URI where each URI may corresponds to the location of the new or modified content object provided by the subscriber. The message may be automatically generated by the subscriber e.g. automatically generated by a subscriber computing device or manually generated by the subscriber.

In step the message is routed e.g. transmitted to one or more users e.g. one or more of the clients A B and the subscribers A C by the content interchange bus based upon the message s topic string. In order to route the message the content interchange bus determines if the message s topic string includes a routing string found in a subscription list. If the message s topic string includes a routing string found in a subscription list the message is then transmitted to each user e.g. client that is associated with that routing string in the subscription list.

If the message s topic string does not include a routing string found in a subscription list the message is typically not routed to a user. Instead an error message is transmitted to the sender of the message e.g. a client . This error message indicates to the sender that the message could not be routed because its topic string does not include a valid routing string.

In one embodiment the content interchange bus is configured to track the state of messages e.g. messages sent by a client or sent by a subscriber that it routes. For example the content interchange bus may track whether a message has been successfully sent and received by the intended recipient. In addition the content interchange bus may track whether copies of the content objects and or content containers having their associated URIs included in a message have been provided to the message s recipient s . Furthermore the content interchange bus may track whether any of these steps have failed e.g. there was an error in sending the message the message was not successfully delivered to one or more recipients or a recipient failed to request a copy of a content object or content container within a predefined period of time . The state of a message may then be provided by the content interchange bus in a notification to the sender of the message. This notification may be in the form of a message that is routed by the content interchange bus using a subscription list. Accordingly the sender e.g. a client or a subscriber of the message can have notice of an error that occurs in message transmission. In addition the sender can be able to know whether a copy of a content object or content container has been retrieved.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method including for example a computer implemented process a business process and or any other process apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code and the like or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer executable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable transitory or non transitory computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF signals or other mediums.

Computer executable program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer executable program code portions. These computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the code portions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer executable program code portions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the code portions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer executable program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the code portions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

As the phrase is used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowcharts and or block diagrams. It will be understood that steps of the processes described herein may be performed in orders different than those illustrated in the flowcharts. In other words the processes represented by the blocks of a flowchart may in some embodiments be in performed in an order other that the order illustrated may be combined or divided or may be performed simultaneously. It will also be understood that the blocks of the block diagrams illustrated in some embodiments merely conceptual delineations between systems and one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams may be combined or share hardware and or software with another one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams. Likewise a device system apparatus and or the like may be made up of one or more devices systems apparatuses and or the like. For example where a processor is illustrated or described herein the processor may be made up of a plurality of microprocessors or other processing devices which may or may not be coupled to one another. Likewise where a memory is illustrated or described herein the memory may be made up of a plurality of memory devices which may or may not be coupled to one another.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

