---

title: Customized cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of a data processing device
abstract: A method includes triggering, through an interface of a data processing device, cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of the data processing device. The method also includes initiating, through a driver component associated a processor of the data processing device, an operating system executing on the data processing device and/or an application executing on the data processing device, the processor to process pixel data to be displayed on the display screen area based on the triggering. Further, the method includes rendering, through the processor, the processed pixel data on a cropped portion of the display screen area of the display unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183813&OS=09183813&RS=09183813
owner: NVIDIA Corporation
number: 09183813
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130102
---
This disclosure relates generally to data processing devices and more particularly to a method a device and or a system of customized cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of a data processing device.

A data processing device e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook a mobile device such as a mobile phone may have a display unit associated therewith. The display unit may be illuminated by a backlight of the data processing device. The display unit may be a component of the data processing device consuming maximum power from a battery thereof. In the case of the data processing device being a mobile phone a user of the mobile phone may most frequently check a current time displayed on the display unit and or a remaining battery time without performing any other action on the data processing device. By default an entire display screen area of the display unit may be illuminated by the backlight thereby consuming a lot of power from the battery.

Disclosed are a method a device and or a system of customized cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of a data processing device.

In one aspect a method includes triggering through an interface of a data processing device cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of the data processing device. The method also includes initiating through a driver component associated a processor of the data processing device an operating system executing on the data processing device and or an application executing on the data processing device the processor to process pixel data to be displayed on the display screen area based on the triggering. Further the method includes rendering through the processor the processed pixel data on a cropped portion of the display screen area of the display unit.

In another aspect a non transitory medium readable through a data processing device and including instructions embodied therein that are executable through the data processing device is disclosed. The non transitory medium includes instructions to enable triggering through an interface of the data processing device cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of the data processing device. The non transitory medium also includes instructions to initiate through a driver component associated with a processor of the data processing device an operating system executing on the data processing device and or an application executing on the data processing device the processor to process pixel data to be displayed on the display screen area based on the triggering. Further the non transitory medium includes instructions to render through the processor the processed pixel data on a cropped portion of the display screen area of the display unit.

In yet another aspect a data processing device includes a memory a processor communicatively coupled to the memory a display unit an interface to enable triggering of cropping of a display screen area of the display unit and a driver component associated with the processor an operating system executing on the data processing device and or an application executing on the data processing device. The driver component is configured to initiate the processor to process pixel data to be displayed on the display screen area based on the triggering through the interface. The processor is further configured to render the processed pixel data on a cropped portion of the display screen area of the display unit.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented in any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Example embodiments as described below may be used to provide a method a system and or a device of customized cropping of a display screen area of a display unit of a data processing device. Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments.

In one or more embodiments an operating system may execute on data processing device shows operating system as being stored in memory . shows controller as being configured to manage backlight driver circuit that is configured to switch on off backlight based on a control signal from controller . Also controller is shown along with backlight driver circuit as being part of a control module configured to control backlight e.g. a Light Emitting Diode LED . In one or more embodiments control module may be a dedicated integrated circuit that is programmable.

In one or more embodiments as data processing device may be configured to derive power from a battery battery is shown as being interfaced with control module . It is obvious that control module may include other elements necessary for the functioning of data processing device but not relevant to the concepts associated with the exemplary embodiments discussed herein. Therefore discussion associated with the aforementioned other elements have been skipped for the sake of clarity and convenience.

In one or more embodiments data processing device may include a display unit e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD a Cathode Ray Tube CRT monitor associated therewith display unit also may be powered through battery . In one or more embodiments output data associated with processing through processor may be input to a multimedia processing unit not shown configured to perform encoding decoding associated with the data. In one or more embodiments the output of the multimedia processing unit may be rendered on display unit shows processor being communicatively coupled to display unit . In one or more embodiments a display screen area of display unit may be illuminated through backlight .

In one or more embodiments data processing device may include a user interface coupled to controller in order to enable a user of data processing device to input options associated with cropping of a size of a display screen e.g. display screen pixels of display unit . In one or more embodiments user may not desire and or require viewing of a number of applications executing on data processing device on a large display screen area of display unit the aforementioned utilization of the large display screen area may consume a lot of power leading to reduced backup provided through battery . Exemplary embodiments discussed herein are directed to utilizing the display screen area on display unit efficiently i.e. effectively according to requirements of the applications executing on data processing device and or requirements of user .

In one or more embodiments user may be provided the capability to crop the display screen area through user interface . In one or more embodiments the aforementioned cropping may be initiated through a driver component e.g. a software driver associated with processor operating system and or an application . In one or more embodiments the triggering of the custom display screen area cropping may be accomplished through user inputting appropriate data through user interface through user clicking a physical button associated with data processing device e.g. external toggle button such as the volume button user clicking touching settings options accessible through the display screen of data processing device etc. Other forms of the triggering are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments discussed herein.

In one or more embodiments in addition to or instead of user having a capability to input custom cropping options user interface may have a set of cropping profiles not shown e.g. accessible through a drop down menu from which user chooses the cropping percentage.

It is to be noted that rendering of the scaled down pixel data does not limit the scope of the exemplary embodiments. shows an alternate embodiment of cropping display screen area . Here a display Original Design Manufacturer ODM e.g. an ODM of display unit may specify divisions of display screen area . User interface may provide options based on the aforementioned specified divisions e.g. through a drop down menu therein . User may be provided the capability to choose one of the options to cause display screen area to be appropriately cropped. Here it should be noted that pixel data is not scaled down. An example scenario involving this would be when user desires to view only the bottom portion of display screen area of a mobile phone an example data processing device that shows the current time. shows the appropriate cropping for the aforementioned example scenario. Here portions of pixel data not to be rendered on display screen area may be ignored discarded by processor .

In yet another example embodiment driver component may provide a capability for user to define a custom mode of displaying pixel data from processor on display unit . In one or more embodiments the custom mode may be interpretable through operating system . For example user may input reduced dimensions of display screen area in the custom mode through user interface . The aforementioned input from user may result in a cropped display screen area with without scaling of pixel data discussed above.

Thus exemplary embodiments discussed herein provide for reduced power utilization from battery of data processing device . In scenarios where user is unable to charge e.g. during travel data processing device for long hours user may benefit through the cropping of display screen area discussed above.

The driver component e.g. driver component discussed above or equivalent software thereof may be stored in memory to be installed on data processing device after a download through the Internet. Alternately an external memory may be utilized therefor. Also instructions associated with the driver component may be embodied on a non transitory medium readable through data processing device such as a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disc DVD a Blu ray disc a floppy disk or a diskette etc. The aforementioned instructions may be executable through data processing device .

The set of instructions associated with the driver component or equivalent software thereof is not limited to specific embodiments discussed above and may for example be implemented in operating system an application program e.g. application a foreground or a background process a network stack or any combination thereof. Other variations are within the scope of the exemplary embodiments discussed herein.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices and modules described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry e.g. CMOS based logic circuitry firmware software or any combination of hardware firmware and software e.g. embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium . For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry and or Digital Signal Processor DSP circuitry .

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. data processing device . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

