---

title: Fabrication of enclosed nanochannels using silica nanoparticles
abstract: In accordance with the invention, there is a method of forming a nanochannel including depositing a photosensitive film stack over a substrate and forming a pattern on the film stack using interferometric lithography. The method can further include depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern and removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles, wherein the structure comprises an enclosed nanochannel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09156004&OS=09156004&RS=09156004
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09156004
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application is a continuation in part application of U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 892 427 filed on Sep. 28 2010 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 549 732 filed on Oct. 16 2006 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 726 651 filed on Oct. 17 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. DAAD19 99 1 0196 awarded by the Army Research Office and Grant No. HR0011 05 1 0006 awarded by the DOD Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter of this invention relates to fabrication of micro nano structures. More particularly the subject matter of this invention relates to nanochannels and a method for fabricating enclosed nanochannels using lithography and self assembly of silica nanoparticles.

Micro and nano structures including nanoparticle assembly with two and three dimensional periodicity can have potential applications in the areas of photonic crystals chemical sensors catalysts and biotechnology. Patterned surfaces can be used as hard templates to assist the self assembly of not only relatively simple clusters but also complex and unique crystallization structures. Soft polymer templates have been used for directed self assembly of particle arrays on flat substrates. Binary colloidal crystals have been fabricated using two different sizes of colloidal particles. Further micro and nano particles have been used as templates for the preparation of porous metallic nanostructures and monodisperse colloidal crystals. Even though nanochannel structures for nanofluidic applications have been fabricated using thermal oxidation or nanoimprint there is a need for a simple and inexpensive approach for the fabrication of enclosed channels formed of nanoparticles.

Thus there is need to solve these and other problems of the prior art and provide a simple method for the fabrication of nanochannel structures.

In accordance with the teachings of the present invention there is a method of forming a nanochannel including depositing a photosensitive film stack over a substrate and forming a pattern on the film stack using interferometric lithography. The method can further include depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern and removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles wherein the structure includes an enclosed nanochannel.

According to various embodiments there is a method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure including forming a first layer of silica nanochannels. The step of forming the first layer of silica nanochannels having a first spatial period and a first aspect ratio includes a depositing a film stack over a substrate b forming a pattern on the film stack using lithography c depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern and d removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles wherein the structure comprises enclosed silica nanochannels. The method of forming multilayer silica nanochannel can also include forming a second layer of silica nanochannel having a second spatial period and a second aspect ratio over the first layer of silica nanochannels by repeating steps a d to form the second layer of silica nanochannels and repeating steps a d m 2 times to form an m layered silica nanochannel structure.

According to various embodiments there is another method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure including forming a first layer of silica nanochannels having a first spatial period and a first aspect ratio. The step of forming first layer of silica nanochannels includes a depositing a film stack over a substrate b forming a pattern on the film stack using lithography c depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern. The method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure can further include repeating the steps a c to form a second layer of structure having a second spatial period and a second aspect ratio over the first layer of structure. The method can further include repeating the steps a c m 2 times to get m layers of structure over m layers of pattern and removing the m layers of pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles thereby forming m layers of silica nanochannel structure.

According to various embodiments there is a nanochannel device for selectively separating components of a fluid including at least one first nanochannel having a first opening at least one second nanochannel with a second opening wherein the first opening is in a direction different from the first opening and at least one porous sidewall having a plurality of pores between the first and the second nanochannel wherein the first nanochannel the second nanochannel and the at least one porous sidewall are disposed such that the fluid enters through the first opening of the first nanaochannel percolates through the plurality of pores of the porous sidewall and exits through the second opening of the second nanochannel.

According to various embodiments there is a method of diagnosing nanochannel formation. The method can include depositing a drop of a suspension including silica nanoparticles on a patterned surface determining that a nanochannel is not completely formed if the suspension of silica nanoparticles forms an elongated drop along a direction of the pattern and determining that a top of the nanochannel is formed if the suspension of silica nanoparticles shows wetting.

In implementations a method of forming a nanochannel is disclosed. The method can include depositing a photosensitive film stack over a substrate forming a first pattern on the film stack using interferometric lithography to form a nanochannel forming a second pattern on the film stack using interferometric lithography and a mask aligner to form a barrier in the nanochannel depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern and removing the first pattern and the second pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles wherein the structure comprises an enclosed nanochannel with the barrier formed along a portion of the enclosed nanochannel.

In implementations the depositing a photosensitive film stack can comprise depositing a first layer comprising an antireflective coating over the substrate and depositing a second layer comprising a photoresist over the first layer.

In implementations the second layer can comprise a layer of positive photoresist or a layer of negative photoresist.

In implementations the depositing the plurality of silica nanoparticles can comprise at least one cycle of spin coating using a suspension of silica nanoparticles.

In implementations the depositing the plurality of silica nanoparticles can comprise multiple cycles of spin coating wherein each cycle of spin coating uses a suspension of silica nanoparticles with a same size distribution.

In implementations the depositing the plurality of silica nanoparticles can comprise multiple cycles of spin coating wherein at least one cycle of spin coating uses a suspension of silica nanoparticles with a size distribution different than the other cycles of spin coating.

In implementations a nanochannel device for selectively separating components of a fluid is disclosed. The nanochannel device can comprise at least one first nanochannel comprising a first opening a second opening and a barrier positioned between the first opening and the second opening wherein the barrier comprises a plurality of pores to allow fluid to flow from the first opening to the second opening.

In implementations the nanochannel device can further comprise a second nanochannel arranged perpendicular to the first nanochannel and separated from the first nanochannel by a barrier comprised of a plurality of pores to allow fluid to flow from the first nanochannel to the second nanochannel.

In implementations the second nanochannel can comprise a first opening a second opening and a barrier positioned between the first opening and the second opening wherein the barrier comprising a plurality of pores to allow fluid to flow from the first opening to the second opening wherein a thickness and or a pore size controlled by the nanoparticle size of the barrier between the first opening and the second opening is adjusted relative to the thickness and or the pore size controlled by the nanoparticle size of the barrier between the first and the second nanochannel to affect the flow of moieties across the two barriers.

In implementations the nanochannel device can comprise at least one porous divider arranged between the first and the second nanochannel.

In implementations the at least one porous divider can comprise a plurality of pores between the first and the second nanochannel wherein the first nanochannel the second nanochannel and the at least one porous divider are disposed such that the fluid enters through the first opening of the first nanochannel percolates through the plurality of pores of the porous divider and exits through the second opening of the second nanochannel.

In implementations the nanochannel device can further comprise functionalized silica nanoparticles to selectively transport one component of the fluid.

In implementations the nanochannel device can further comprise a CVD film providing sealing of the top surface of the roof of the nanochannels.

In implementations the nanochannel device can further comprise an atomic layer deposited film atop the chemical vapor deposited film where the atomic layer deposited film can be AlO.

Additional advantages of the embodiments will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate embodiments of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 1 to 5. In certain cases the numerical values as stated for the parameter can take on negative values. In this case the example value of range stated as less that 10 can assume negative values e.g. 1 2 3 10 20 30 etc.

As shown in the method of forming a nanochannel can include depositing a photosensitive film stack over a substrate . Non limiting examples of the substrate can include a pre cleaned silicon wafer quartz and sapphire. In some embodiments depositing the film stack can include depositing a first layer including an antireflective coating over the substrate and depositing a second layer including a photoresist over the first layer . In accordance with various embodiments the first layer can include a bottom anti reflective coating BARC for i line photoresist. Yet in other embodiments the first layer can include a g line BARC or a deep UV BARC. Non limiting examples of BARC can be XHRiC 16 and Wet i 10 7 manufactured by Brewer Science Inc. Rolla Mo. . In various embodiments the first layer can be deposited using standard spin coating procedure. In other embodiments the deposition of the first layer can also include baking the first layer at a temperature from about 100 C. to about 250 C. for about 60 second to about 120 second. The second layer can include at least one of a layer of positive photoresist and a layer of negative photoresist. In certain embodiments the photoresist can be an i line photoresist. In other embodiments the photoresist can be a g line or a deep UV photoresist. A non limiting exemplary positive photoresist can be SPR510A manufactured by Shipley Rohm Haas Electronic Materials Marlborough Mass. and a non limiting exemplary negative photoresist can be NR7 500P manufactured by Futurrex Inc. Franklin N.J. . The deposition of the second layer including photoresist can also include a baking step to remove residual solvent. In various embodiments the first layer can have a thickness from about 50 nm to about 200 nm and the second layer can have a thickness from about 200 nm to about 1500 nm.

Referring to the method of forming a nanochannel can also include forming a pattern on the film stack using lithography. In some embodiments the pattern can be formed using interferometric lithography. In interferometric lithography two coherent laser beams with wavelength are intersected at an angle 2 to produce a periodic interference pattern on the film stack with a spatial period d 2 sin . The angle between the two laser beams can determine the pattern spatial period while the exposure time power density and development time can determine the line width and the pattern morphology. According to various embodiments a laser in the UV range consistent with the photosensitivity of the film stack can be used to form the periodic interference pattern on the film stack for example a 248 nm laser can be used for deep UV photoresist and a 355 nm laser can be used for i line photoresist. Non limiting examples of a laser in the UV range can include a 355 nm tripled yttrium aluminum garnet YAG laser a 248 nm KrF excimer laser a 193 nm ArF excimer laser and a 157 nm Fexcimer laser. In various embodiments using a 355 nm laser one can form a pattern on the film stack with a spatial period greater than about 200 nm. In other embodiments an ArF laser can be used to form a pattern on the film stack with a spatial period as small as about 68 nm and with frequency doubling as small as about 34 nm. In some embodiments the method of forming a pattern on the film stack can include immersion interference lithography. Immersion interference lithography can extend the spatial period of the pattern to 2n where n is the immersion liquid refractive index. In other embodiments the method of forming the pattern on the film stack can include conventional lithography either in the ultra violet UV or deep UV region. The step of forming a pattern on the film stack can further include a bake and develop cycle. In some embodiments the step of forming a pattern on the film stack can further include etching the first layer including an antireflective coating.

As shown in the method of forming a nanochannel can include depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern . In some embodiments silica nanoparticles can be deposited by spin coating a colloidal dispersion of silica nanoparticles. In other embodiments silica nanoparticles can be deposited over the pattern using alternative deposition techniques such as but not limited to dip coating convective deposition and layer by layer electrostatic deposition. In various embodiments the step of depositing silica nanoparticles can include at least one cycle of spin coating using a suspension of silica nanoparticles. In some embodiments the step of depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles can include multiple cycles of spin coating wherein each cycle of spin coating uses a suspension of silica nanoparticles with a same size distribution. In other embodiments the step of depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles can include multiple cycles of spin coating wherein at least one cycle of spin coating uses a suspension of silica nanoparticles with a size distribution different than the other cycles of spin coating. While not intending to be bound by any specific theory it is believed that various cycles of spin coating utilizing suspensions of silica nanoparticles with different size distributions can fill the spaces between the walls of the pattern on the film stack and can also control the thickness of the top sealing layer. For example in some embodiments colloidal solutions or suspensions of three different size distributions of silica nanoparticles can be used in three different cycles of spin coating to form the structure over the pattern . Exemplary colloidal solutions of silica nanoparticles can include Snowtex series of colloidal silica ST C with a particle size in the range of about 10 nm to about 20 nm ST OL with a particle size in the range of about 40 nm to about 50 nm and ST ZL with a particle size in the range of about 70 nm to about 100 nm manufactured by Nissan Chemical America Corporation Houston Tex. . The colloidal solutions of silica nanoparticles can be diluted with deionized water to get the desired concentration for spin coating. In some embodiments colloidal silica nanoparticles can be used in the concentration range of about 1 wt. to about 10 wt. and in some cases from about 4 wt. to about 6 wt. . In various embodiments the method of forming a nanochannel can also include agitating the colloidal solution of silica nanoparticles in an ultrasonic bath before spin coating. In some embodiments the cycle of spin coating can include baking to remove any residual solvent for example such as baking at a temperature from about 60 C. to about 120 C. for about 1 minute to about 8 minutes.

As shown in the method of forming a nanochannel can include removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles . According to various embodiments removing the pattern can be achieved by calcination. Calcination can be carried out by heating a substance to a high temperature but below its melting point in the presence of air or controlled environment to bring about thermal decomposition or phase transition in its chemical or physical structure. In some embodiments the calcination can be carried at about 700 C. to about 900 C. for about 1 hour to about 3 hours and in some cases at about 800 C. for about 1.5 to about 2 hours. In various embodiments the high temperature calcination can induce some degree of sintering between the silica nanoparticles and thereby enhancing the mechanical stability of the nanochannel structure . In other embodiments the pattern can be removed by techniques such as but not limited to chemical plasma and reactive ion etching. Yet in some other embodiments piranha composition such 1 1 1 1.5 and 1 2 30 HO 98 HSOcan be used either alone or in combination with calcination to remove the pattern while retaining the silica nanoparticle structure .

According to various embodiments the method of forming a nanochannel can further include depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles over the substrate before the step of depositing a photosensitive film stack over the substrate as shown in .

According to various embodiments the method of forming a silica nanochannel can further include at least one of increasing the concentration of suspension adding some bonding agents and increasing the humidity during spin coating to slow the drying process to prevent cracking in the sealing layer. In some embodiments a bonding agent such as but not limited to polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP can be added to the aqueous colloidal solution of silica and ethylene glycol can be added to the ethanol colloidal solution of silica to prevent cracking in the sealing layer.

In various embodiments the method of forming a nanochannel can also include modifying the surface of silica nanoparticles to provide additional functionality. In some embodiments the surface of silica nanoparticles can be modified to provide additional functionality before the step of depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern wherein the step of removing the pattern is compatible with the functionalization. In other embodiments the surface of silica nanoparticles can be modified after the step of removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles . In some embodiments the surface of silica nanoparticles can be functionalized to bind biologically active molecules for optical and or electrical analysis. In other embodiments a thin layer of gold or silver can be deposited on silica nanoparticles to increase sensitivity of the silica nanoparticles to biomolecules. In various embodiments the surface of silica nanoparticles can be functionalized for one or more of photonics catalysis chemical biological sensing separation bio mimic structure and nanofluidic applications. Furthermore according to various embodiments there is a device formed by the exemplary method as shown in including a nanochannel structure wherein the nanochannel structure includes silica nanoparticles having a functionalized surface for one or more of photonics catalysis chemical biological sensing separation bio mimic structure and nanofluidic applications.

According to various embodiments the method of forming a nanochannel can further include depositing a releasing layer including chromium over the substrate and under the silica nanoparticles and immersing the structure of silica nanoparticles including nanochannels in a boiling aqueous sulfuric acid solution thereby releasing the free standing structure of silica nanoparticles including nanochannels . In some embodiments a support layer to provide mechanical support to the nanochannels can be deposited over the releasing layer as shown in . In various embodiments the support layer can comprise silicon nitride. In some other embodiments the method of forming a nanochannel can further include depositing a support layer over the substrate and under the silica nanoparticles and selectively etching the substrate thereby releasing the free standing structure of silica nanoparticles including nanochannels on the support layer .

According to various embodiments there is a method of diagnosing the stage of the nanochannel formation. The method can include depositing a drop of a suspension including silica nanoparticles on a patterned surface. The method can also include determining that a nanochannel is not completely formed if the suspension of silica nanoparticles forms an elongated drop along a direction of the pattern due to hydrophobic surface of the silicon substrate and photoresist of pattern and determining that a top of the nanochannel is formed if the suspension of silica nanoparticles shows wetting due to hydrophilic surface of silica nanoparticles . For example upon application of one or more drops of a suspension on the pattern shown in but before spinning the suspension of silica nanoparticles can form an elongated drop along the direction of the pattern due to the hydrophobic surface properties of the substrate and the photoresist . Once the channel tops are formed as shown in partial wetting of the drop of suspension of silica nanoparticles can be observed due to the hydrophilicity of the silica nanoparticles and no contact of the one or more drops of a suspension of silica nanoparticles with the hydrophobic photoresist .

According to various embodiments there is a method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure as shown in . The method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure can include forming a first layer of silica nanochannels having a first spatial period and a first aspect ratio. The term aspect ratio used herein refers to a ratio of height to width of the silica nanochannels . In various embodiments the method of forming the first layer of silica nanochannels can include a depositing a film stack over a substrate b forming a pattern on the film stack using lithography c depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern and d removing the pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles . The structure can include enclosed silica nanochannels as depicted in . The method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure can further include forming a second layer of silica nanochannels having a second spatial period and a second aspect ratio over the first layer of silica nanochannels by repeating the steps a d employed in forming the first layer of silica nanochannels . In various embodiments the steps a d can be repeated m 2 times to form an m layered silica nanochannel structure . In some embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be the same as the second spatial period and second aspect ratio. In other embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be different from the second spatial period and second aspect ratio.

According to various embodiments there is another exemplary method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure as shown in . The method can include forming a first layer of structure having a first spatial period and a first aspect ratio over the pattern by a depositing a film stack over a substrate b forming a pattern on the film stack using lithography c depositing a plurality of silica nanoparticles to form a structure over the pattern . The method can include repeating the steps a c to form a second layer of structure having a second spatial period and a second aspect ratio over the first layer of structure as shown in . The method can further include repeating the steps a c m 2 times to get m layered structure . The method can further include removing the m layers of pattern while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles thereby forming m layered silica nanochannel structure . In various embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be same as the second spatial period and second aspect ratio. In other embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be different from the second spatial period and second aspect ratio.

According to various embodiments the method of forming a multilayer silica nanochannel structure can further include rotating the substrate to a desired angle during the formation of a mlayer of silica nanochannels to form the mlayer at the desired angle relative to the m 1 layer. In some embodiments the layers can be at an angle in the range of about 0 to about 90 . is a schematic illustration of an exemplary substantially perpendicular layered nanochannel structure wherein a plurality of nanochannels in a first layer with a first spatial period and first aspect ratio are perpendicular to a plurality of nanochannels in the second layer with a second spatial period and a second aspect ratio. In some embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be same as the second spatial period and the second aspect ratio. In other embodiments the first spatial period and the first aspect ratio can be different from the second spatial period and the second aspect ratio.

According to various embodiments there is porosity between the nanochannels and between different layers . The porosity of the nanochannel structure can be of the scale of d 3 where d is the diameter of the silica nanoparticles and can be controlled with the size of the silica nanoparticles. A porous sidewall including a plurality of pores between nanochannels and is shown in .

According to various embodiments the method of forming silica nanochannel and silica nanochannel structure can have numerous degrees of freedom. In some embodiments the spatial period shape and size of the nanochannels can be controlled by varying the lithographic parameters such as thickness and photoresist type i.e. positive or negative photoresist exposure development times and develop parameters such as postbake time and temperature developer concentration temperature and time . In other embodiments the silica nanochannel profile can be controlled by controlling the spin coating process spin program and the number of deposition cycle concentration of colloidal silica nanoparticles and silica nanoparticle size.

For example nanochannel devices and can be fabricated using the techniques discussed above. In particular a photosensitive film stack can be deposited over a substrate. A first pattern can be formed on the film stack using interferometric lithography. This film stack is developed and nanoparticles are deposited by spin coating to form an array of nanochannels. A second pattern can be formed on a second film stack deposited over the first layer of nanochannels using interferometric lithography and a mask aligner to form one or more barriers in the nanochannel. A plurality of silica nanoparticles can be deposited to form the second layer of nanochannels which incorporates the one or more barriers. Finally the first pattern and the second pattern can be removed for example by heating in an oxygen ambient while retaining the structure formed by the plurality of silica nanoparticles wherein the structure comprises an enclosed nanochannel with the one or more barriers formed along a portion of the enclosed nanochannels.

Evaporation through the roof of the nanochannels into the ambient above the chip limits the duration of an experiment due to drying of the fluid. Additionally under an applied electric field the fluid can transport through the roof instead of the barriers and bead up on the top surface of the roof. It is desirable to provide a sealant for the roof while still allowing diffusion of the liquid and biological moieties through the porous walls. Since the roof and walls are porous this requires line of sight deposition technique such that the deposition is self sealing on the top few layers of the roof and does not penetrate into channel regions leaving the porosity of the barriers and the channel walls. Chemical vapor deposition CVD of a film over the roof significantly decreases the evaporation through the roof. Both SiNand SiOfilms have been used successfully as shown schematically in . An additional atomic layer deposition ALD step following the CVD step provides additional sealing. It is important to block the openings into the nanochannel areas during this ALD step to avoid ALD sealing of the barriers and channel walls. Among other materials AlOcan be used for this atomic layer deposition step.

Following examples set forth below illustrate different degrees of freedom that can be utilized in practicing the present teachings. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art however that the present teachings can be practiced with many other sets of parameters in accordance with the disclosure.

Enclosed silica nanochannels with a height of about 300 nm and a width of about 120 nm on a about 1 cm long substrate were obtained using silica nanoparticles with diameter in the range of about 40 nm to about 50 nm. Interferometric lithography with a 355 nm tripled yttrium aluminum garnet YAG laser was used to produce the periodic pattern. Snowtex series of colloidal silica ST OL was used in six cycles of spin coating and calcination at about 800 C. was done for about 2 hours. The thickness of the sealing layer was in the range of about 100 nm to about 150 nm i.e. 2 3 particles .

High aspect ratio silica nanoparticle walls in the range of about 2 1 to about 4 1 and thin top seals with one to two silica nanoparticles were obtained using a thick coat of negative photoresist NR7 500P from Futurrex Inc. . The thickness of the negative photoresist was in the range of about 500 nm. Silica nanoparticles with a diameter of about 50 nm were used to form high aspect ratio nanochannels with a spatial period of about 500 nm and about 1000 nm. Silica nanochannels with a spatial period of about 1000 nm were obtained using silica nanoparticles having a diameter of about 80 nm. Furthermore. silica nanochannels with spatial period of about 500 nm were obtained with silica nanoparticles having a diameter of about 15 nm.

Two layer silica nanochannel structures were fabricated using silica nanoparticles having a diameter of about 50 nm through repeat processing on a single substrate. After a first layer of buried silica nanochannels was fabricated the full process including application of antireflective coating and photoresist films interferometric lithographic pattern definition and development spin coating of silica nanoparticles and calcination led to formation of a second layer of enclosed nanochannels over the first layer. In one case the silica nanochannels in the first layer were parallel to the second layer with both layers having a spatial period of about 500 nm. In another case the silica nanochannels in the first layer with a spatial period of about 1000 nm were perpendicular to the second layer with spatial period of about 500 nm.

According to various embodiments there is a device including at least one of a single layer multi layer and a combination of single and multi layer nanochannel structure wherein the nanochannel structure can include silica nanoparticles with a functionalized surface to bind biological molecules for optical and or electrical analysis. In some embodiments the surface of silica nanoparticles can be functionalized for at least one of photonics catalysis chemical biological sensing separation bio mimic structure and nanofluidic applications.

While the invention has been illustrated with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications can be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular function. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

