---

title: Fastener driving tool using a gas spring
abstract: A portable linear fastener driving tool is provided that drive staples, nails, or other linearly driven fasteners. The tool uses a gas spring principle, in which a cylinder filled with compressed gas is used to quickly force a piston through a driving stroke movement, while a driver also drives a fastener into a workpiece. The piston/driver is then moved back to its starting position by use of a rotary-to-linear lifter, and the piston again compresses the gas above the piston, thereby preparing the tool for another driving stroke. The driver has protrusions along its edges that contact the lifter, which lifts the driver during a return stroke. A pivotable latch is controlled to move into either an interfering position or a non-interfering position with respect to the driver protrusions, and acts as a safety device, by preventing the driver from making a full driving stroke at an improper time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08602282&OS=08602282&RS=08602282
owner: Senco Brands, Inc.
number: 08602282
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---
The present application is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 913 049 titled METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A FASTENER DRIVING TOOL USING A GAS SPRING filed on Oct. 27 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 387 718 which is a divisional of Ser. No. 12 243 693 titled METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A FASTENER DRIVING TOOL USING A GAS SPRING filed on Oct. 1 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 011 441 which claims priority to provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 977 678 titled FASTENER DRIVING TOOL USING A GAS SPRING filed on Oct. 5 2007.

The present invention relates to linear fastener driving tools and more particularly directed to portable tools that drive staples nails or other linearly driven fasteners. The invention is specifically disclosed as a gas spring linear fastener driving tool in which a cylinder filled with compressed gas is used to quickly force a piston through a driving stroke movement while also driving a fastener into a workpiece. The piston is then moved back to its starting position by use of a rotary to linear lifter which again compresses the gas above the piston thereby preparing the tool for another driving stroke. A driver member is attached to the piston and has protrusions along its edges that are used to contact the lifter member which lifts the driver during a return stroke. A pivotable latch is controlled to move into either an interfering position or a non interfering position with respect to the driver protrusions and acts as a safety device by preventing the driver from making a full driving stroke at an improper time. In alternative embodiments the fastener driving tool uses a different type of driving device such as a mechanical spring to force the driver into a driving stroke.

An early air spring fastener driving tool is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 215 808 to Sollberger. The Sollberger patent used a rack and pinion type gear to jack the piston back to its driving position. A separate motor was to be attached to a belt that was worn by the user a separate flexible mechanical cable was used to take the motor s mechanical output to the driving tool pinion gear through a drive train.

Another air spring fastener driving tool is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 720 423 to Kondo. This Kondo patent used a separate air replenishing supply tank with an air replenishing piston to refresh the pressurized air needed to drive a piston that in turn drove a fastener into an object.

Another air spring fastener driving tool is disclosed in published patent application no. US2006 0180631 by Pedicini which uses a rack and pinion to move the piston back to its driving position. The rack and pinion gear are decoupled during the drive stroke and a sensor is used to detect this decoupling. The Pedicini tool uses a release valve to replenish the air that is lost between nail drives.

What is needed in the art is a portable fastener driving tool that is electrically powered but which uses a gas spring principle of operation to drive a fastener into an object and also uses few moving parts which allows for simplicity of operation and provides a substantially gas tight system for containing the pressurized gas for the gas spring.

Accordingly it is an advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which the cylinder that contains the moving piston and driver is substantially surrounded by a pressure vessel as a main storage chamber to increase the storage space of the pressurized gases needed for the gas spring effect.

It is another advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that uses a gas spring principle to provide a quick downward driving stroke and uses a rotary to linear lifter having a cam shaped perimeter surface and multiple cylindrical protruding pins that lift the fastener driver element and the piston back to the initiating firing or driving position.

It is a further advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which the tool has a cylinder displacement volume and also includes a main storage chamber and in which a volumetric ratio of the main storage chamber s volume with respect to the cylinder s displacement volume is at least 2.0 1.

It is still a further advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which there is a working storage volume comprising a combination of a main storage chamber and a cylinder displacement volume and in which there is no gas replenishment system on board the tool for allowing a user to replenish the charge gases of the tool s working storage volume thereby reducing opportunities for gas leaks.

It is yet another advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that uses a gas spring principle that uses a rotary to linear lifter to move the driver back to its firing or driving position in which there can be a variable driving stroke by use of multiple rotations of the lifter member.

It is still another advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which for a first embodiment a movable latch is controlled by a solenoid to disengage from multiple teeth of the driver element during a driving stroke but also will tend to engage the teeth of the driver element as a safety interlock and also at the maximum driver element displacement just before a driving stroke is to occur so that the movable latch engages the driver teeth until the user activates the tool.

It is still another advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which for a second embodiment a gearbox is provided that is essentially self locking from its output side or has a one way feature and thus the gearbox lifter combination holds the driver in position just before a driving stroke.

It is a yet further advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle which includes a system controller that allows operation in either a bottom firing mode or a trigger firing mode. 

It is a still further advantage of the present invention to provide a fastener driving tool that operates on a gas spring principle in which the system controller has error correction capability including the capability of recovering from a jam of the driver element without having to completely disable the tool.

Additional advantages and other novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned with the practice of the invention.

To achieve the foregoing and other advantages and in accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for controlling a fastener driving tool is provided in which the method comprises the following steps a providing a fastener driving tool that includes i a housing ii a system controller iii a fastener driving mechanism that moves a driver member toward an exit end of the mechanism iv a prime mover that moves a lifter member which moves the driver member away from the exit end of the mechanism v a latch control device that moves a latch member which has a catching surface vi a safety contact element vii a user actuated trigger and vii a fastener b initiating a driving cycle by pressing the exit end against a workpiece and actuating the trigger thereby i causing the latch control device to activate which moves the catching surface of the latch member to a position that does not interfere with movements of the driver member and ii causing the fastener driving mechanism to force the driver member to move toward the exit end and drive the fastener into the workpiece c actuating the prime mover thereby moving the lifter member and causing the driver member to move away from the exit end toward a ready position and d then de activating the latch control device which allows a mechanical biasing of the latch member to move the catching surface of the latch member to a position that interferes with movements of the driver member.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method for controlling a fastener driving tool is provided in which the method comprises the following steps a providing a fastener driving tool that includes i a housing ii a system controller iii a safety contact element iv a user actuated trigger v a fastener iv a prime mover that moves a lifter member which moves a driver member away from an exit end of the mechanism and vii a fastener driving mechanism that moves the driver member toward the exit end of the mechanism the fastener driving mechanism including A a hollow cylinder comprising a cylindrical wall with a movable piston therewithin the hollow cylinder containing a displacement volume created by a stroke of the piston and B a main storage chamber that is in fluidic communication with the displacement volume of the cylinder wherein the main storage chamber and the displacement volume are initially charged with a pressurized gas b selecting by a user an operating mode of the driving cycle to be one of a bottom firing mode and a restrictive firing mode wherein i if the restrictive firing mode is selected the tool will operate if the safety contact element has been actuated before the trigger actuator has been operated and ii if the bottom firing mode is selected the tool will operate if both A the trigger actuator has been operated and B the safety contact element has been actuated in either sequence c initiating a driving cycle by pressing the exit end against a workpiece and actuating the trigger thereby causing the fastener driving mechanism to force the driver member to move toward the exit end and drive a fastener into the workpiece and d actuating the prime mover thereby moving the lifter member and causing the driver member to move away from the exit end toward a ready position.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention a fastener driving tool is provided which comprises a a housing that contains a prime mover and a system controller b a fastener driving mechanism that includes i a hollow cylinder having a movable piston therewithin the hollow cylinder having a first end and a second opposite end the hollow cylinder containing a displacement volume created by a stroke of the piston the displacement volume being initially charged with a pressurized gas ii a guide body that is substantially adjacent to the second end of the cylinder the guide body having a receiving end an exit end and a passageway therebetween the receiving end being proximal to the second end of the cylinder the guide body being configured to receive a fastener that is to be driven from the exit end iii an elongated driver member that is in mechanical communication with the piston the driver member having a driving surface that is sized and shaped to push a fastener into an external workpiece wherein the passageway of the guide body allows the driver member to pass therethrough toward the exit end during a driving stroke and allows the driver member to pass therethrough away from the exit end during a lifting interval A the driver member having a first longitudinal edge B the driver member having a first plurality of spaced apart protrusions along the first longitudinal edge and iv a lifter member that exhibits an outer shape that defines a perimeter of the lifter member s surface A the lifter member being movable under command of the system controller by the prime mover B the lifter member having a discontinuous contact surface that at predetermined locations along the discontinuous contact surface makes contact with the first plurality of spaced apart protrusions of the driver member such that under first predetermined conditions the lifter member is moved in a first direction and thereby causes the driver member to be moved from its driven position toward its ready position and C the lifter member being positionable by the prime mover under second predetermined conditions such that the discontinuous contact surface of the lifter member does not mechanically interfere with the first plurality of spaced apart protrusions along the first longitudinal edge of the driver member during the driving stroke in which the driver member moves from its ready position toward its driven position c a safety contact element that extends to the exit end of the guide body and which is movable between an actuated position when the safety contact element is pressed against the external workpiece and a non actuated position when the safety contact element is not pressed against the external workpiece d a trigger actuator that is user actuated e a trigger position sensor and f a safety contact element position sensor wherein the cylinder and piston act as a gas spring under the second predetermined conditions to move the driver member from its ready position toward its driven position using the pressurized gas acting on the piston while the driver member s driving surface contacts a fastener and moves the fastener toward the exit end of the guide body.

Still other advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in this art from the following description and drawings wherein there is described and shown a preferred embodiment of this invention in one of the best modes contemplated for carrying out the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of other different embodiments and its several details are capable of modification in various obvious aspects all without departing from the invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions will be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. The exemplification set out herein illustrates one preferred embodiment of the invention in one form and such exemplification is not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any manner.

The terms first and second preceding an element name e.g. first pin second pin etc. are used for identification purposes to distinguish between similar elements and are not intended to necessarily imply order nor are the terms first and second intended to preclude the inclusion of additional similar elements.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiment of the invention an example of which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like numerals indicate the same elements throughout the views.

Referring now to a first embodiment of a fastener driving tool is generally designated by the reference numeral . This tool is mainly designed to linearly drive fasteners such as nails and staples. Tool includes a handle portion a fastener driver portion a fastener magazine portion and a fastener exit portion .

A left outer cover of the driver portion is indicated at . A top cover is indicated at while a front outer cover or housing of the driver portion is indicated at . A rear cover for the handle portion is indicated at which is also the battery pack cover while a rear cover of the magazine portion is indicated at . It will be understood that the various directional nomenclature provided above is with respect to the illustration of and the first embodiment fastener driving tool can be used in many other angular positions without departing from the principles of the present invention.

The area of the first embodiment tool in which a fastener is released is indicated approximately by the reference numeral which is the bottom of the fastener exit portion of tool . Before the tool is actuated a safety contact element extends beyond the bottom of the fastener exit and this extension of the safety contact element is depicted at which is the bottom or front portion of the safety contact element. Other elements that are depicted in include a guide body and a front cover which are in mechanical communication with the magazine portion .

Reference numeral indicates a magazine housing while reference numeral indicates a fastener track through which the individual fasteners run therethrough while they remain within the magazine portion . A feeder carriage is used to feed an individual fastener from the magazine into the drive mechanism area and a back plate is used to carry an individual fastener while it is being driven. In the illustrated embodiment the feeder carriage positions a fastener to a position within the guide body that is coincident with the path of the driver member so that when the driver moves through a driving stroke its driving end will basically intercept the fastener and carry that fastener to the exit end of the tool essentially at the bottom portion of the tool s exit area.

The first embodiment fastener driving tool also includes a motor which acts as a prime mover for the tool and which has an output that drives a gearbox . An output shaft of the gearbox drives a lifter drive shaft see . A solenoid is depicted on and further details of its operation are discussed below. A battery is attached near the rear of the handle portion and this battery provides electrical power for the motor as well as for a control system.

A printed circuit board that contains a controller is generally designated by the reference numeral and is placed within the handle portion in this embodiment. A trigger switch is activated by a trigger actuator . As can been seen by viewing the handle portion is designed for gripping by a human hand and the trigger actuator is designed for linear actuation by a person s finger while gripping the handle portion . Trigger switch provides an input to the control system . There are also other input devices for the controller however those input devices are not seen in .

The controller will typically include a microprocessor or a microcomputer device that acts as a processing circuit. At least one memory circuit will also typically be part of the controller including Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM devices. To store user inputted information if applicable for a particular tool model a non volatile memory device would typically be included such as EEPROM NVRAM or a Flash memory device.

Referring now to a working cylinder subassembly is designated by the reference numeral and this is included as part of the fastener driver portion . On the working cylinder includes a cylinder wall and within this cylinder wall is a piston a movable piston stop and a stationary piston stop see . Part of the piston mechanism of this embodiment includes a piston seal a piston guide ring and a piston scraper see . Surrounding in the illustrated embodiment the cylinder wall is a main storage chamber also sometimes referred to herein as a pressure vessel storage space and an outer pressure vessel wall which corresponds to the front cover of along the left portion of this view . At the top as seen on of the fastener driver portion is a top cap for the cylinder mechanism.

Also within the fastener driver portion are mechanisms that will actually drive a fastener into a solid object. This includes a driver a cylinder venting chamber which would typically always be at atmospheric pressure a driver track see a rotary to linear lifter and a latch . The driver is also sometimes referred to herein as a driver member and the rotary to lifter is also sometimes referred to herein as a lifter member or simply as a lifter. Driver is rather elongated and as an individual element can best be seen in . There are multiple teeth that are positioned along the driver. In the illustrated embodiment these teeth are spaced apart not only in a transverse direction from the elongated centerline of driver but they are also spaced apart from one another along the outer longitudinal edges of the driver . The positions of teeth are clearly illustrated in . It will be understood that the precise positions for the teeth could be different from those illustrated for the driver without departing from the principles of the present invention.

There is a cylinder base that mainly separates the gas pressure portions of the fastener driver portion from the mechanical portions of that driver portion . The venting of air from the cylinder venting chamber passes through the cylinder base as seen at a vent see . The mechanical portions of begin with a rotary to linear lifter which was briefly mentioned above along with a lifter drive shaft . Drive shaft protrudes through the center portions of the fastener driver portion and through the center of the lifter and this shaft is used to rotate the lifter as desired by the control system.

Lifter is not designed with an entirely circular outer perimeter but instead is arcuate and portions of its perimeter exhibit an eccentric shape of a cam see . A portion of the lifter s outer perimeter is mainly circular for about half of a circle designated by the reference numeral but the other half of the lifter s outer perimeter is more eccentric which provides an elliptical surface that is designated by the reference numeral . The rotary to linear lifter also includes three cylindrical protrusions or extensions that will also be referred to herein as pins. The first such pin pin is designated the second pin pin is designated while the third pin pin is designated . These pins are all viewed on . Furthermore there is a fourth cylindrical pin pin that protrudes from the opposite side of the lifter which fourth pin is designated and which can be viewed on several of the other figures namely .

It should be noted that also depict a back side of the first three pins and in which these views essentially show a boss portion of those pins. These boss portions of the pins are not entirely necessary for the proper functioning of the rotary to linear lifter however the boss portions are illustrated in the figures of this patent document for ease of description. In other words the surface of the lifter could be perfectly smooth at those locations rather than exhibiting a boss. It should be understood that the working side of these three pins and is on the opposite side of the lifter in the views of and this working side is directly illustrated in . When discussing these pins and with respect to in this written description it is with reference to the boss side of those pins however the effects of the working side of those pins is discussed in some detail with respect to other structures that are also illustrated on . It should also be noted that pins and are illustrated as having circular cross sectional shapes which is desirable for this embodiment although other cross sectional shapes could instead be used without departing from the principles of the present invention particularly for the fourth pin .

The latch that was briefly noted above is depicted on and has a latch shaft protruding therethrough and this shaft rotates the latch as determined by the controller. Latch includes a latch catching surface at and this will be more fully explained below. In there is an internal cover that is a portion of the back plate and hides some of the other mechanical components that will be visible in other views.

In the piston is not quite at its uppermost or top most position and a gas pressure chamber can be seen above the top most area of the piston near the piston seal . It will be understood that the gas pressure chamber and the main storage chamber or storage space are in fluidic communication with one another. It will also be understood that the portion to the interior of the cylinder wall forms a displacement volume that is created by the stroke of the piston . In other words the gas pressure chamber is not a fixed volume but this chamber will vary in volume as the piston moves up and down as seen in . This type of mechanical arrangement is often referred to as a displacement volume and that terminology will mainly be used herein for this non fixed volume .

It will be further understood that the main storage chamber preferably comprises a fixed volume which typically would make it less expensive to manufacture however it is not an absolute requirement that the main storage chamber actually be of a fixed volume. It would be possible to allow a portion of this chamber to deform in size and or shape so that the size of its volume would actually change during operation of the present invention without departing from the principles of the present invention.

In the illustrated embodiment for the first embodiment fastener driving tool the main storage chamber substantially surrounds the working cylinder . Moreover the main storage chamber is annular in shape and it is basically co axial with the cylinder . This is a preferred configuration of the illustrated first embodiment but it will be understood that alternative physical arrangements could be designed without departing from the principles of the present invention.

Referring now to the piston is depicted at its bottom most travel position and in this configuration the displacement volume and the main storage chamber are at their largest combined volumes while the cylinder venting chamber is at its minimum volume. This bottom position is also sometimes referred to herein as the driven position. 

In the movable piston stop is now in contact with the stationary piston stop which is why the cylinder venting chamber is at its minimum or zero volume. In the driver is also at its bottom most travel position and its lower most tip can be seen extending out the exit port at the bottom of the guide body .

In the rotary to linear lifter and the latch are in their respective positions at the end of a firing driving stroke and the latch has its latching surface in a location that will not interfere with the teeth of the driver . This is necessary so that the driver can make a linear stroke from its top most position to its bottom most position. However the latch will later be slightly rotated by the latch shaft which is spring loaded so that its catching surface will be able to interfere with the teeth .

In the configuration depicted on the fastener driving tool has been used to drive a fastener and the tool now must cause the driver to be lifted back to its top most position for a new firing driving stroke. This is accomplished by rotating the lifter which is actuated by the motor through its gearbox etc.

As rotary to linear lifter rotates counterclockwise as seen in at least one of its pins or will come into contact with one of the teeth along the left side as seen in of the driver . This will cause the driver to be lifted upward as seen in . As the lifter rotates one of the teeth will be in contact with one of the rotating pins throughout a portion of the rotational travel of the lifter and the next pin will then come into contact with the next tooth so that the driver continues to be moved upward. This will remain true until the eccentric cam surface comes into play and since there are no working lifter pins protruding along that surface the driver will not continue to be driven upward while the eccentric cam surface is positioned along the right portion as seen in of the rotary to linear lifter . However when this occurs the latch which is spring loaded will have its latch catching surface in a proper location to catch the closest tooth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver thereby preventing the driver from falling downward for any significant distance. After this occurs the next lifter pin which will be the pin will then come along and again make contact with one of the teeth along the left hand side as seen in of the driver thereby continuing to lift the driver toward the top as seen in of the cylinder .

In the illustrated embodiment of the first embodiment fastener driving tool the rotary to linear lifter makes two complete rotations to lift the driver from its bottom most position to its top most position. The upper position is also sometimes referred to herein as the ready position. At the end of the second rotation the parts will be configured as illustrated in . The piston is once again near the top of the cylinder and the combined volumes of the main storage chamber and displacement volume have now been reduced to a smaller volume which means their gases are under a greater pressure since the gas that was above the piston and in chamber was compressed during the lift of the driver. As noted above the actual volume of the main storage chamber does not change in the illustrated embodiment. During the lift of the driver the latch was engaged with the teeth however the latch has a smooth surface in one direction that allows the teeth to push the latch out of the way during the upward lift of the driver. This is much like a ratchet type action remembering that the latch is spring loaded so as to act in this manner.

In the last tooth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver is engaged with the latch catching surface and so latch now prevents the driver from being moved downward as seen in this view . The third pin is still in contact with the lower most tooth along the left hand side as seen in of the driver at this point in the rotational travel of the rotary to linear lifter . There is a sensor which in the illustrated embodiment is a limit switch see that detects the rotational movements of the lifter . This sensor detects the fourth pin as discussed below in greater detail.

When the sensor detects the fourth pin a first time in this embodiment the control system turns off the solenoid which will then allow the latch to engage the right hand teeth in these views of the lifter . Note that the solenoid can also be turned off earlier during the lift if desired. When sensor detects this pin a second time in this embodiment the current to the motor is turned off and the motor thus is de energized and stops the lifting action of the driver . As described herein the solenoid acts as a latch actuator.

Due to the gas pressure above the piston the driver piston subassembly will drift downward in these views a small distance until the tooth contacts the latch surface . This is the position illustrated in of these components and this configuration is considered to be the rest position of the tool. Although the gas pressure in the combined main storage chamber and displacement volume is at its maximum the latch prevents the driver from being moved further downward so the piston is essentially locked in this position until something else occurs. In a preferred mode of the invention the pressure vessel may be pressurized at about 100 PSIG to 120 PSIG.

When it is time to drive a fastener the next action in the illustrated first embodiment is to cause the motor to become energized once again. This occurs by two independent actions by the user in some modes of the invention these two independent actions can occur in either order. There is also an optional restrictive mode of operation in which the two independent actions must occur in a specific order. These two actions are pressing the nose of the safety contact element against a solid surface and depressing the trigger actuator . The trigger actuator will cause the trigger switch to change state which is one condition that will start sending current to the motor . The safety contact element has an upper arm see that will be moved as the nose is pushed into the tool and this upper arm will actuate another sensor which in the illustrated embodiment is a second limit switch see . When both of these actions are occurring simultaneously current is delivered to the motor which will once again turn the rotary to linear lifter a short distance. Also the controller will energize the solenoid which will rotate the latch a small angular distance clockwise as seen in to disengage the latch catching surface from one of the teeth of the driver . More specifically this would be the last tooth as seen in . Note that show details of the same structure depicted in at different perspective angles.

It should be noted that the rotary motion of the lifter will cause a small upward movement of the driver so that the latch can easily disengage from the last tooth of the driver . Thus there will not be a binding action that might otherwise cause the mechanism to jam.

Now that all this has occurred the latch is in its disengaged position so that its catching surface will not interfere with any of the teeth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver also the eccentric cam surface is now facing the teeth along the left hand side as seen in of the driver and none of the three working pins of the lifter will interfere with those left hand teeth . Once the driver tooth drops off the last lifting pin the driver is quickly thrust downward in a linear stroke due to the high gas pressure within the main storage chamber and displacement volume . This is the gas spring effect. Along the way the driver will pick up a fastener that is waiting at the feeder carriage and drive that fastener along the back plate to the exit area at the bottom at the area on . After this action has occurred the driver will be situated at its lower most position as viewed in .

The pressure of the gas in the combined main storage chamber and displacement volume is sufficiently high to quickly force the driver downward and such pneumatic means is typically much faster than a nail driving gun that uses exclusively mechanical means such as a spring for driving a fastener. This is due to the gas spring effect caused by the high gas pressure within the main storage chamber and displacement volume that once the driver is released can quickly and easily move the driver in a downward stroke.

As the driver is being moved downward the piston and the movable piston stop are forcing air or possibly some other gas out of the cylinder venting chamber that is below the piston. This volume of air is moved through a vent to atmosphere and it is desired that this be a low resistance passageway so as to not further impede the movement of the piston and driver during their downward stroke. The gas above the piston is not vented to atmosphere but instead remains within the displacement volume which is also in fluidic communication with the main storage chamber .

One aspect of the present invention is to provide a rather large storage space volume to hold the pressurized gas that is also used to drive the piston downward during a driving stroke of the driver . There is a fluidic passage between the upper portion of the cylinder and the main storage chamber . In the illustrated first embodiment the cylinder wall does not extend all the way to the top cap . It is preferred that the volume of the main storage chamber be larger than the total volume of the cylinder working spaces i.e. the displacement volume by a volumetric ratio of at least 2.0 1 and more preferably at least 3.0 1. This will allow for a powerful stroke and a quick stroke.

The illustrated first embodiment of the present invention allows for both a quick firing or driving stroke time and also a fairly quick lifting time to bring the driver back to its upper position ready for the next firing driving stroke. Both of these mechanical actions can sequentially occur in less than 340 milliseconds combined time and allow a user to quickly place fasteners into a surface. In one operating mode of the present invention the human user can hold the trigger in the engaged position and quickly place a fastener at a desired location merely by pressing the nose or bottom of the tool against the working surface to actuate the fastener driver and place the fastener. Then the user can quickly remove the fastener driver tool from that surface and move it to a second position along the work surface while still depressing the trigger the entire time and then press the nose or bottom of the tool against the working surface at a different position and it will drive a fastener at that different position. This is referred to as a bottom fire capability and when using the illustrated embodiment it can occur virtually as fast as a human can place the tool against a surface then pick up the tool and accurately place it against the surface at a different position and thereby repeat these steps as often as desired until emptying the magazine of fasteners. This type of mode of operation will be discussed in greater detail below in connection with the logic flow chart starting at with respect to the control system of the fastener driving tool .

Referring now to another side sectional view is provided that shows some of the elements beneath the latch and other portions of the first embodiment fastener driving tool . There are two electromechanical limit switches and . The limit switch detects movements of the fourth pin of the rotary to linear lifter as noted above . The limit switch detects movement of the upper arm which is a portion of the safety contact element that is pushed rearward or up in these views with respect to the overall tool when the nose of the tool is pressed against a working surface. These limit switches provide electrical input signals to the controller which is discussed below in greater detail. It will be understood that other types of sensors could be used instead of electromechanical limit switches such as optoelectrical sensors or magnetic sensors including a Hall effect switch or even a metal sensing proximity switch.

Also viewed on is a return spring which causes the safety contact element to be pushed back downward in this view once the user releases the nose of the tool from the working surface. In addition there is a depth of drive adjustment at .

Referring now to further details of the solenoid are viewed. In the solenoid has a plunger that will move linearly either in or out from the main coil body of the solenoid . When the solenoid is energized it pulls the plunger in toward the solenoid body which rotates a solenoid arm part of the solenoid s linkage which in turn rotates the latch shaft that also rotates the latch a small arcuate distance. This causes the latch to disengage from the teeth of the driver . On the other hand when the solenoid becomes de energized the plunger will be pushed out by the plunger spring which will rotate the solenoid arm a short distance and that in turn rotates the latch shaft and the latch . This will tend to cause the latch to engage the teeth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver . However since this is a spring action the teeth can slide against the surface of the latch and move the latch out of the way if the teeth are attempting to move upward along with the driver . However the spring action of the solenoid plunger spring will be strong enough to push the latch into its engaged position and any teeth attempting to move downward will be caught by the catching surface of the latch .

This catching action of the latch has more than one benefit. In the first place the latch holds the tooth which is the bottom tooth along the right hand side of the driver as seen in in place when the piston has been lifted to its top or firing position. The driver cannot be fired until the latch is moved out of the way as discussed above. On the other hand if there is some type of jam or an improper use of the tool by a user such that the driver does not totally complete its travel during a firing driving stroke the latch will also prevent a misfire from occurring at an inconvenient time.

More specifically if the driver jams during a drive stroke and if a person tries to clear the jam and if there was no precaution taken to prevent the remainder of the stroke from occurring at that moment then possibly an injury could occur when the driver suddenly becomes released from its jammed condition. In other words a fastener could be driven during the attempt to clear the jam and that fastener would likely be directed somewhere that is not the original target surface. In the present invention the latch will have its solenoid become de energized once the jam occurs because solenoid will de energize after a timeout interval occurs and therefore the latch will be engaged and the catching surface will be in a position to interfere with the downward movement of the driver teeth . By use of this configuration the driver could only move a short distance even if the jam was suddenly cleared because the latch catching surface will literally catch the next tooth that unexpectedly comes along during a downward travel of the driver . This makes the tool much safer in situations where a complete driver stroke has not occurred.

The process for controlling the solenoid and the moments when the solenoid will either be energized or de energized are discussed below in connection with the flow chart that begins on .

With respect to various types of firing or driving modes a trigger fire mode is where the user first presses the tool nose against a working surface and then depresses the trigger actuator . It is the trigger being depressed that causes the drive stroke to occur in this situation. With respect to a bottom fire mode the trigger is actuated first and then the user presses the nose of the tool against a work surface and it is the work surface contact that causes the drive stroke to occur. As discussed above the user can continue to hold the trigger down while pressing against and releasing the tool from the work surface multiple times and obtain quick multiple firing strokes or driving strokes thereby quickly dispensing multiple fasteners into the working surface at various locations.

There is also an optional restrictive firing mode in which the nose of the tool must be first placed against a working surface before the trigger is pulled. If the sequence of events does not unfold in that manner then the drive stroke will not occur at all. This is strictly an optional mode that is not used by all users and certainly in not all situations.

With regard to alternative embodiments of the present invention an exemplary fastener driving tool can be made with a main storage chamber volume of about twelve cubic inches and a cylinder displacement volume of about 3.75 cubic inches. This would provide a volumetric ratio of the main storage chamber versus the displacement volume of about 3.2 1. As discussed above it is desirable for the volumetric ratio of the main storage chamber s volume to the displacement volume to be at least 2.0 1 and it could be much higher if desired by the fastener driving tool s designer.

The working pressure in the system could be around 120 PSIG and should probably be at least 100 PSIG for a quick firing tool. By the term working pressure the inventors are referring to the pressure in the displacement volume and main storage chamber at the time the piston is at its ready position which is when it is at or proximal to its uppermost travel position as illustrated in .

It should be noted that other gases besides air can be used for the main storage chamber and the displacement volume if desired. While air will work fine in many or most applications alternative gases could be used as the charge gas such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen gas. Moreover the use of nitrogen gas can have other benefits during the manufacturing stage such as for curing certain adhesives for example.

In the illustrated first embodiment there is no fill valve on the fastener driving tool at the storage tank main storage chamber . This is a preferred mode of the present invention although an optional fill valve could be provided if desired by a tool designer. The design of the preferred mode of the present invention is such that the charge gas should not significantly leak from the tool and therefore a fill valve would not be required.

Another feature of the present invention is that a variable stroke is possible by causing the rotary to linear lifter to be rotated a multiple number of times to create a shorter or longer firing driving stroke if desired. In the illustrated first embodiment the lifter makes a complete rotation two times to lift the piston from its lower most position to its top most position. This number of rotations of the lifter could be increased to three times or four times if desired or even could be decreased to a single turn for a shorter stroke tool if desired.

Another possible variation is to use a composite sleeve for the internal cylinder wall which would make contact with the seals of the piston . In addition the outer pressure vessel wall could also be made of a composite material if desired. The use of a carbon fiber composite for example would decrease weight but would maintain the desired strength.

Referring now to some of the details of a first piston arrangement are illustrated in cross section for one of the embodiments of the present invention. The piston is depicted at the reference numeral . A piston seal is near the upper end in this view of the piston and a piston scraper is near the lower end in this view of the piston. A piston guide ring is located at a central region of the piston and essentially surrounds that middle portion of the piston.

Referring now to some of the details of a second piston arrangement are illustrated in cross section for an alternative embodiment of the present invention. The second embodiment piston is designated by the reference number . There are upper and lower seals at and respectively. Between these seals is an annular space that is at least partially filled with lubricating fluid such as oil. This oil will tend to lubricate the movements of the piston along the inner surface of the alternative cylinder wall . The seals and are designed to hold the oil within the annular space indefinitely or at least to lose the oil only at a very slow rate.

Referring now to the opposite side compared to of the rotary to linear lifter is illustrated. The three pins and are directly seen in this view and this is the working side of those three pins which make contact with the teeth of the driver . shows the positional relationship of these three pins with respect to the lifter and the center position for the lifter drive shaft in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In addition shows the semi circular outer shape of a first part of the perimeter of the lifter at and the more elliptical outer shape of a second part of the perimeter of the lifter at as discussed above. The outer shape of the perimeter portions at and define an outer perimeter of a surface from which these pins and protrude.

Referring now to a logic flow chart is provided to show some of the important steps used by a system controller for the fastener driving tool of the illustrated embodiment for the present invention. Starting at an initializing step a step loads registers with predetermined values and a step loads special function registers with predetermined values. A step now checks the RAM Random Access Memory to be sure it is functioning properly and then a step clears the RAM. A step now loads unused RAM with predetermined values based on the software coding for the system controller typically in firmware or hard coded .

A step now determines the stability of the system electrical power supply. And then a step initializes the interrupts that will be used for the controller. The controller is now ready to enter into an operational routine.

At a step the control logic enters a FIRST 1 routine. A decision step now determines whether or not a mode selector switch has been activated. Note this mode switch would typically be only an optional feature for a driving tool and many tools will not include this mode switch at all. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a decision step . On the other hand if the mode selector switch was turned on then the logic flow is directed to a step in which the tool enters a restrictive fire routine. The logic flow is directed now to a decision step that determines if the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a decision step . On the other hand if the trigger has been pulled then the logic flow is directed to a step that will further direct the logic flow to the STOP 1 function or routine at step on . It should be noted that in the restrictive fire mode of operation the trigger cannot be pulled first instead the nose of the fastener driving tool must be pushed against the solid surface before the trigger is pulled.

If the answer at step was NO the decision step now determines whether or not the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step in which the logic flow enters a TRIGGER routine. A step turns on a work light which is a small electric lamp e.g. an LED that illuminates the workpiece where the fastener is to be driven.

A decision step now determines whether or not a predetermined timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES a step directs the logic flow to a STOP 1 routine that is illustrated on at a step . What this actually means is that a user pulled the trigger but then did not actually use the tool against a solid surface and rather than having the tool ready and primed to fire a fastener at any moment for an indefinite period of time a predetermined amount of time will pass i.e. the timeout interval and once that has occurred the system will be basically deactivated in the STOP 1 mode. This is not a permanent stoppage of the functioning of the tool but is only temporary. Note that the timeouts are interrupt driven in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

If the timeout has not occurred at decision step then a decision step determines if the safety has been actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to the FIRST 1 routine . On the other hand if the safety has been actuated at step then the logic flow is directed to a step that will send the logic flow to a DRIVE routine which is on at a step . This will be discussed below in greater detail.

If either at step or step the trigger was not yet pulled then the logic flow is directed to the decision step . When the logic flow reaches decision step the logic now determines whether or not the safety has been actuated. This step determines whether or not the safety contact element has been pressed against a solid object to an extent that actuates the sensor e.g. limit switch which means that the tool is now pressed against a surface where the user intends to place a fastener. If the answer is NO the logic flow is directed back to the mode switch query at decision step . However if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step in which the controller enters a SAFETY routine.

Once at the SAFETY routine at step a step turns on the work light which is the same lamp LED that was discussed above in reference to step . A decision step now determines whether or not a timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that directs the logic flow to the STOP 1 function at step on . This temporarily stops the tool from operating. On the other hand if the timeout has not yet occurred the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is NO the logic flow is directed back to the decision step . On the other hand if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that causes the tool to enter the DRIVE mode of operation at step on .

As can be seen by reviewing the flow chart of unless the tool is in the restrictive fire mode at step the tool can be actuated with either one of the two important triggering steps occurring first i.e. the trigger could be pulled before the safety is actuated or vice versa.

Referring now to the logic flow from is directed to the DRIVE routine from two other steps on these are step and step . Once at the DRIVE routine a switch debounce step is executed to determine whether or not one or both of the triggering elements was somehow only actuated intermittently. If so the system designers have determined that the tool should not operate until it is more certain that the input switches have actually been actuated. To do this the logic flow is directed to a decision step to determine if the safety is still actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow back to the SAFETY routine at step . On the other hand if the safety still is actuated at step then the logic flow is directed to a decision step to determine if the trigger is still being pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow back to the TRIGGER routine at step .

On the other hand if decision steps and are both answered affirmatively then a step clears the operational timers and the logic flow is then directed to a decision step that determines if the software code flow is within certain parameters. This is a fault checking mode of the software itself and if the system does not determine a satisfactory result then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to a STOP routine at a step on . This will ultimately turn the tool off and require a safety inspection of the tool or at least have the tool reset. However the tool does not need to be completely disabled and after the safety inspection and tool reset procedure the tool will be ready to use again without being sent to a service center. In an exemplary mode of the invention the code flow check step determines if a correct number resides in a register or memory location this number is the result of being incremented at predetermined executable steps of the software for the system controller.

If the software code flow check is within acceptable parameters at decision step then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns on the motor and then a step that turns on the solenoid. A step now starts the solenoid timer and a step now starts the motor run timer. As will be discussed below these timers will be periodically checked by the system controller to make sure that certain things have occurred while the solenoid is on and while the motor is running. Otherwise after a predetermined maximum amount of time the motor will be turned off and the solenoid will be turned off due to these timers actually timing out which should not occur if the tool is being used in a normal operation and if the tool is functioning normally.

In addition to the solenoid and motor run timers discussed above a dwell timer is used to allow the tool to begin its normal operation before any further conditions are checked. This is accomplished by a decision step on which causes the logic flow to essentially wait a short amount of time before continuing to the next logic steps.

Once the dwell timer has finished at step the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the solenoid on time has been exceeded. If the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the solenoid. This situation does not necessarily mean the tool is being misused or is not functioning properly and therefore the logic flow does not travel to a stop step from the step . Instead the logic flow is directed to a decision step discussed below.

If the solenoid on time has not been exceeded then the logic flow also is directed to the decision step which determines if the cam limit switch has received a first signal. This is the limit switch that detects the presence or absence of the fourth pin of the lifter. If the tool of the illustrated embodiment is being used the lifter will make two complete rotations when lifting the driver and piston from their bottom most positions to their top most positions. Therefore the cam limit switch will receive two different signals during this lift. Step determines if the first signal has occurred. If not then a decision step determines whether the motor timeout has occurred. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to decision step . On the other hand if the motor run timer has indeed timed out then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to a STOP routine at step . This would likely indicate that there is a problem with the tool or a problem with the way the user is attempting to operate the tool.

Referring back to decision step if the first signal from the cam has occurred then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the solenoid. This will allow the latch to engage the teeth of the driver in case there has been some type of jam or other type of unusual operation while the driver and piston are being lifted. It also allows the latch eventually to properly engage the bottom most tooth of the driver which is the normal operation once the driver and piston have been raised to their top most or firing position.

The logic flow is now directed to a decision step that determines whether a second signal has been received from the cam limit switch. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether or not the motor run timer has timed out. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to decision step . On the other hand if the motor timer has timed out the logic flow is directed to a step that directs the logic flow to the STOP routine at and indicates that there is some type of problem.

Once decision step determines that the second signal from the cam has been received then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the motor then to a step that starts a reset timeout referred to as all switches on. In this mode it is either assumed that both the actuation input devices are still actuated or at least that the controller needs to make an examination of those input devices to see what the proper status of the tool should be. Accordingly the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the safety is still actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that then sends the logic flow to the FIRST 1 routine at step on . On the other hand if the safety is still actuated the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the trigger is still pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that also directs the logic flow to the FIRST 1 step at on . Finally if the trigger is still pulled then a decision step determines whether or not a reset timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to the STOP 1 routine at step on . If the reset timeout has not yet occurred at step then the logic flow is directed back to the decision step and the inspection of all of the switches will again be performed.

The logic flow is continued on in which there are two different types of stop routines. The routine called STOP at step will first turn off the motor at a step turn off the solenoid at a step and turn off the work light at a step . The STOP routine will then clear the timers at a step . The logic flow then becomes a DO Loop and continues back to the STOP routine at step . This is a fault mode and the tool must be inspected. As a minimum it needs to be reset to terminate the DO Loop processing of the software which means that the battery must be disconnected from the tool. If the user has been using the tool properly this may be an indication that there is some operational problem with the tool itself or that a fastener perhaps has jammed somewhere in the tool and the operator did not notice that fact.

The other type of STOP routine is the STOP 1 routine at step . Once that occurs a step turns off the motor turn off the solenoid at a step and turn off the work light at a step . The STOP 1 routine will then clear the timers at a step and a decision step determines whether or not the trigger is still pulled. If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed back to the STOP 1 routine at step . If the trigger is not pulled at step the logic flow is then directed to a decision step that determines if the safety is still actuated. If YES the logic flow is directed back to the STOP 1 routine at step . However if the safety is not actuated the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to the FIRST 1 routine at step on . At this point the tool has been successfully used and is ready for the next firing driving actuation.

Referring now to a second embodiment of a fastener driving tool is generally designated by the reference numeral . Tool is mainly designed to linearly drive fasteners such as nails and staples. Tool includes a handle portion a fastener driver portion a fastener magazine portion and a fastener exit portion .

A right outer cover or housing of the driver portion is indicated at . A top cover is indicated at while a front outer cover of the driver portion is indicated at . A rear cover for the handle portion is indicated at which is also the battery pack cover while a rear cover of the magazine portion is indicated at . It will be understood that the various directional nomenclature provided above is with respect to the illustration of and the second embodiment fastener driving tool can be used in many other angular positions without departing from the principles of the present invention.

The area of the second embodiment tool in which a fastener is released is indicated approximately by the reference numeral which is the bottom of the fastener exit portion of tool . Before the tool is actuated a safety contact element extends beyond the bottom of the fastener exit and this extension of the safety contact element is depicted at which is the bottom or front portion of the safety contact element. Other elements that are depicted in include an upper guide body and a front cover the upper guide body generally is in mechanical communication with the magazine portion .

Reference numeral indicates a magazine housing while reference numeral indicates a fastener track through which the individual fasteners run while they remain within the magazine portion . A feeder carriage see is used to feed an individual fastener from the magazine into the drive mechanism area and a back plate is used to carry an individual fastener while it is being driven. In the illustrated embodiment the feeder carriage positions a fastener to a position within the upper guide body that is coincident with the path of the driver member see so that when the driver moves through a driving stroke its driving end will basically intercept the fastener and carry that fastener to the exit end of the tool essentially at the bottom portion of the tool s exit area.

The second embodiment fastener driving tool also includes a motor see which acts as a prime mover for the tool and which has an output that drives a gearbox see . An output shaft see of the gearbox drives a lifter drive shaft see . A solenoid see is included in tool and further details of its operation are discussed below. A battery is attached near the rear of the handle portion and this battery provides electrical power for the motor as well as for a control system.

A printed circuit board see that contains a controller is generally designated by the reference numeral and is placed within the handle portion in this embodiment. A trigger switch see is activated by a trigger actuator . As can been seen by viewing the handle portion is designed for gripping by a human hand and the trigger actuator is designed for linear actuation by a person s finger while gripping the handle portion . Trigger switch provides an input to the control system .

A three position selector switch acting as a mode control switch is mounted on tool at . This switch allows the user the tool s operator to select an operating Mode A or an operating Mode B or to turn the tool OFF. These operating modes are described in detail below and in conjunction with logic flow charts in the drawings.

There also are one or more light emitting diodes LEDs mounted on tool which provides an indication as to certain functions of the tool. This is described below in greater detail in the description of the logic flow charts. There are also other input devices for the controller however those input devices are not seen in .

The controller at will typically include a microprocessor or a microcomputer device that acts as a processing circuit. At least one memory circuit will also typically be part of the controller including Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM devices. To store user inputted information if applicable for a particular tool model a non volatile memory device would typically be included such as EEPROM NVRAM or a Flash memory device.

Referring now to which are similar to a working cylinder subassembly is designated by the reference numeral and this is included as part of the fastener driver portion . The working cylinder includes a cylinder wall and within this cylinder wall is a movable piston . Further details of this piston arrangement are illustrated in described below. Surrounding the cylinder wall in the illustrated second embodiment is a main storage chamber also sometimes referred to herein as a pressure vessel storage space and an outer pressure vessel wall which corresponds to the front cover of along the right portion of this view . At the top as seen in these views of the fastener driver portion is an upper end portion at for the cylinder mechanism.

Also within the fastener driver portion are mechanisms that will actually drive a fastener into a solid object. This includes a driver a cylinder venting chamber beneath the piston which would typically always be at atmospheric pressure a driver track not seen in this view however see at a rotary to linear lifter and a latch . The driver is also sometimes referred to herein as a driver member and the rotary to lifter is also sometimes referred to herein as a lifter member or simply as a lifter. Driver is rather elongated and as an individual element can best be seen in . There are multiple teeth that are positioned along the driver. In the illustrated embodiment these teeth are spaced apart not only in a transverse direction from the elongated centerline of driver but they are also spaced apart from one another along the outer longitudinal edges of the driver . The positions of teeth are clearly illustrated in .

It will be understood that the precise positions for the teeth and could be different from those illustrated for the driver or without departing from the principles of the present invention. It will also be understood that the precise shapes of teeth and could be different from those illustrated for the driver or without departing from the principles of the present invention. It will be further understood that the longitudinal edges of the driver elements and do not necessarily have to be linear or straight although a straight edge is probably the simplest to construct and use. Moreover the longitudinal edges of the driver elements and do not necessarily need to be parallel to one another or parallel to the longitudinal axis of the driver itself although again such parallel construction is probably the simplest to build and use.

There is a cylinder base that mainly separates the gas pressure portions of the fastener driver portion from the mechanical portions of that driver portion . The venting of air from the cylinder venting chamber passes through the cylinder base as seen at a vent on . The mechanical portions of begin with a rotary to linear lifter which was briefly mentioned above along with a lifter drive shaft . Drive shaft protrudes through the center portions of the fastener driver portion and through the center of the lifter and this shaft is used to rotate the lifter as desired by the control system. See also . 

Lifter can be designed with an entirely circular outer perimeter or it can have a different shape. In the first embodiment of lifter was arcuate and portions of its perimeter exhibited an eccentric shape of a cam see . A portion of the lifter s outer perimeter was mainly circular for about half of a circle designated by the reference numeral but the other half of the lifter s outer perimeter was more eccentric which provided an elliptical surface designated by the reference numeral . In the second embodiment of the outer shape of lifter is still illustrated as half circular and half eccentric. However it will be understood that the lifter s exact outer shape is not important so long as it provides a base to hold in place certain protrusions or pins that will make physical contact with teeth on the driver but in a manner that creates a discontinuous contact surface with those teeth. This will be discussed below in greater detail. See for example . 

The rotary to linear lifter includes three cylindrical protrusions or extensions that will also be referred to herein as pins. The first such pin pin is designated the second pin pin is designated while the third pin pin is designated . See . These pins are mainly not visible on since they face away from the viewer of this .

It should be noted that do not show a boss portion of the three pins and as did pins and on since such boss portions of the pins are not entirely necessary for the proper functioning of the rotary to linear lifter . Instead the surface of the lifter may be perfectly smooth e.g. flat at those locations rather than exhibiting a boss. 

It should be understood that the working side of these three pins and is on the opposite side of the lifter in the view of . When discussing these pins and with respect to in this written description it is with reference to the non protruding side of those pins however the effects of the working side of those pins is discussed in some detail with respect to other structures that are also illustrated on .

It should also be noted that pins an are illustrated as having circular cross sectional shapes which is desirable for this embodiment although other cross sectional shapes could instead be used without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example the pins could have a smooth arcuate outer surface along the portions that will come into contact with the protrusions or teeth of the lifter and the remaining portion of the outer surface of the pins could exhibit a sharp angular cut off edge that for example would have the appearance of a slice of pie. This alternative shape can apply both to the pins and of the first embodiment and to the pins and of the second embodiment without departing from the principles of the present invention. Moreover the pins do not necessarily need to protrude from the lifter surface at right angles.

In the first embodiment of there was a fourth cylindrical pin pin that protruded from the opposite side of the lifter designated pin . In this second embodiment of there is no fourth pin at all. Instead a small permanent magnet at is placed in the lifter . A Hall effect sensor described below is used to sense the movements of this magnet and thus the movements of lifter .

The latch that was briefly noted above is depicted on and has a latch shaft protruding therethrough and this shaft rotates the latch as determined by the controller. Latch includes a latch catching surface at see and this will be more fully explained below.

In the piston depicted at or near its uppermost or top most position in this view and a gas pressure chamber can be seen above the top most area of the piston near the top piston seal see . It will be understood that the gas pressure chamber and the main storage chamber or storage space are in fluidic communication with one another. It will also be understood that the portion to the interior of the cylinder wall forms a displacement volume that is created by the stroke of the piston . In other words the gas pressure chamber is not a fixed volume but this chamber will vary in volume as the piston moves up and down as seen in . As noted above this type of mechanical arrangement is often referred to as a displacement volume and that terminology will mainly be used herein for this non fixed volume .

In the piston is piston is depicted at or near its bottom most travel position in this view and a gas pressure chamber can be seen above the top most area of the piston. It will be understood that the gas pressure chamber and the main storage chamber or storage space are in fluidic communication with one another. It will also be understood that the portion to the interior of the cylinder wall forms a displacement volume that is created by the stroke of the piston . In other words the gas pressure chamber is not a fixed volume but this chamber will vary in volume as the piston moves up and down. This type of mechanical arrangement is often referred to as a displacement volume and that terminology will mainly be used herein for this non fixed volume .

It will be further understood that the main storage chamber preferably comprises a fixed volume which typically would make it less expensive to manufacture however it is not an absolute requirement that the main storage chamber actually be of a fixed volume. It would be possible to allow a portion of this chamber to deform in size and or shape so that the size of its volume would actually change during operation of the present invention without departing from the principles of the present invention.

In the illustrated embodiment for the second embodiment fastener driving tool the main storage chamber substantially surrounds the working cylinder . Moreover the main storage chamber is annular in shape and it is basically co axial with the cylinder . This is a preferred configuration of the illustrated second embodiment but it will be understood that alternative physical arrangements could be designed without departing from the principles of the present invention.

For example illustrates a fastener driver mechanism in which a main storage chamber is not co axial with a working cylinder of the fastener driving tool which is generally designated by the reference numeral . In other words storage chamber does not substantially surround the working cylinder and instead is located off to one side of this working cylinder. This arrangement allows for various physical component arrangements of the tool and offers a different possible center of mass which might be advantageous for some special applications.

In the main storage chamber has an outer pressure vessel wall and the working cylinder has a cylinder wall . These two spaces and are pneumatically in communication with one another by way of a passageway near the top in this view of the working cylinder at . Within cylinder wall is a movable piston not visible in this view which can be constructed in a similar manner to the movable piston illustrated in described above. Also within the fastener driver portion is a driver member not visible in this view which can be constructed in a similar manner to the driver illustrated in and described above.

A cylinder base separates the gas pressure portions of the fastener driver portion from the mechanical portions of that fastener driver portion . The tool can include a handle portion not shown a fastener magazine portion not shown and a fastener exit portion . The remaining parts of tool can be very similar or identical to other parts of the second embodiment tool illustrated in .

Referring again to the piston is depicted near or at its bottom most travel position and in this configuration the displacement volume and the main storage chamber are at their largest combined volumes while the cylinder venting chamber is at its minimum volume. This bottom position is also sometimes referred to herein as the driven position. In movable piston is now in contact with the stationary piston stop which is why the cylinder venting chamber is at its minimum or zero volume. In the driver is also at its bottom most travel position and its lower most tip can be seen extending out the exit port at the bottom of a lower guide body .

In the rotary to linear lifter and the latch are in their respective positions at the end of a firing driving stroke and the latch has its latching surface in a location that will not interfere with the teeth of the driver . This is necessary so that the driver can make a driving stroke from its top most position to its bottom most position see also . However the latch will later be slightly rotated by the latch shaft which is spring loaded so that its catching surface will be able to interfere with the teeth .

In the configuration depicted on the fastener driving tool has been used to drive a fastener and the tool now must cause the driver to be lifted back to its top most position for a new firing driving stroke. This is accomplished by rotating the lifter which is actuated by the motor through its gearbox etc.

As rotary to linear lifter rotates counterclockwise as seen in at least one of its pins or will come into contact with one of the teeth along the left side as seen in of the driver . This will cause the driver to be lifted upward as seen in in a return stroke. As the lifter rotates one of the teeth will be in contact with one of the rotating pins throughout a portion of the rotational travel of the lifter and the next pin will then come into contact with the next tooth so that the driver continues to be moved upward. This lifting procedure will continue until the controller determines that the driver has been moved to its proper position for a new driving stroke. When this occurs the latch which is spring loaded will have its latch catching surface in a proper location to catch the closest tooth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver thereby preventing the driver from falling downward for any significant distance. After this occurs the next lifter pin which will be the pin will then come along and again make contact with one of the teeth along the left hand side as seen in of the driver thereby continuing to lift the driver toward the top as seen in of the cylinder .

In the illustrated embodiment of the second embodiment fastener driving tool the rotary to linear lifter makes two complete rotations to lift the driver from its bottom most position to its top most position. The upper position is also sometimes referred to herein as the ready position. At the end of the second rotation the parts will be configured as illustrated in . The piston will again be near the top of the cylinder and the combined volumes of the main storage chamber and displacement volume have now been reduced to a smaller volume which means their gases are under a greater pressure since the gas that was above the piston and in chamber was compressed during the lift of the driver. As noted above the actual volume of the main storage chamber does not change in the illustrated embodiment. During the lift of the driver the latch was engaged with the teeth however the latch has a smooth surface in one direction that allows the teeth to push the latch out of the way during the upward lift of the driver. This is much like a ratchet type action remembering that the latch is spring loaded and thus has a mechanical bias so as to act in this manner.

At the end of the piston s normal upward movement the last tooth along the right hand side as best seen in of the driver is engaged with the latch catching surface and so latch now prevents the driver from being moved downward as seen in this view . This is similar to the arrangement of components depicted in for the first embodiment. The third pin is still in contact with the lower most tooth along the left hand side of the driver at this point in the rotational travel of the rotary to linear lifter . There is a sensor which in the illustrated embodiment is a Hall effect sensor see that detects the rotational movements of the lifter . This sensor detects the magnet as discussed below in greater detail.

When the sensor detects the magnet a first time in this second embodiment the control system turns off the solenoid which will then allow the latch to engage the right hand teeth in these views of the lifter . Note that the solenoid can also be turned off earlier during the lift if desired. When sensor detects this magnet a second time in the second embodiment the current to the motor is turned off and the motor thus is de energized and stops the lifting action of the driver . As described herein the solenoid acts as a latch actuator.

In the second illustrated embodiment tool the latch surface is not in contact with the driver teeth when the driver has been moved to its ready position. In this second illustrated embodiment the gearbox has an attribute by which it essentially is self locking from its output side i.e. from its output shaft and this prevents the lifter from allowing the driver to move backward which is the down direction in . Therefore the driver piston subassembly will not drift downward a small distance and thus the driver teeth do not come into contact with the latch even in view of the gas pressure above piston in the space .

At the ready position for the driver the latch may be positioned such that it would interfere with the driver teeth i.e. in an interfering position as a safety feature i.e. in which the latch surface would catch the teeth of the driver if the driver somehow would move downward . However the gearbox lifter combination does not allow the last tooth to contact that latch at this point in the tool s operation.

This is the position illustrated in of the second embodiment tool and this configuration is considered to be the rest position of the tool . Although the gas pressure in the combined main storage chamber and displacement volume is at its maximum the gearbox prevents the driver from being moved further downward in this view so the piston driver combination is essentially locked in this position until something else occurs. In a preferred mode of the invention the pressure vessel may be pressurized at about 130 PSIG to 140 PSIG just before a driving stroke.

It should be noted that for the second embodiment tool the gearbox can be of yet another alternative construction. For example instead of being self locking from its output side a regular gearbox could be used if provided with a one way feature such as an adjacent one way clutch or a one way clutch constructed therewithin . In this manner the driver would still be prevented from moving down in and contacting the latch surface just before a driving stroke.

When it is time to drive a fastener the next action in the illustrated second embodiment is to cause the motor to become energized once again so that the lifter rotates further in its original direction. This occurs by two independent actions by the user in some modes of the invention these two independent actions can occur in either order. There is also an optional restrictive mode of operation in which the two independent actions must occur in a specific order. These two actions are pressing the nose of the safety contact element against a solid surface and depressing the trigger actuator . The trigger actuator will cause the trigger switch to change state which is one condition that will start sending current to the motor . The safety contact element has an upper arm see that will be moved as the nose is pushed into the tool and this upper arm will actuate another sensor which in the illustrated embodiment is a small limit switch see .

When both of these actions occur simultaneously current is delivered to the motor which will once again turn the rotary to linear lifter a short distance. Also the controller energizes the solenoid which rotates the latch a small angular distance clockwise as seen in to move the latch catching surface from an interfering position so that the latch will not prevent the driver from moving downward when it is correctly time for a driving stroke. Therefore the last tooth of driver as seen in would not catch on this latch catching surface. Note that show details of the same structure depicted in at different perspective angles.

Now that all this has occurred the latch is in its disengaged position so that its catching surface will not interfere with any of the teeth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver and none of the three working pins of the lifter will interfere with those left hand teeth . Once the driver tooth drops off the last lifting pin the driver is quickly thrust downward in a driving stroke due to the high gas pressure within the main storage chamber and displacement volume . This is the gas spring effect. Along the way the driver will pick up a fastener that is waiting at the feeder carriage and drive that fastener along the back plate to the exit area at the bottom at the area on . After this action has occurred the driver will be situated at its lower most position as viewed in .

The pressure of the gas in the combined main storage chamber and displacement volume is sufficiently high to quickly force the driver downward and such pneumatic means is typically much faster than a nail driving gun that uses exclusively mechanical means such as a spring for driving a fastener. This is due to the gas spring effect caused by the high gas pressure within the main storage chamber and displacement volume that once the driver is released can quickly and easily move the driver in a downward stroke.

As the driver is being moved downward the piston and the movable piston stop are forcing air or possibly some other gas out of the cylinder venting chamber that is below the piston. This volume of air is moved through a vent to atmosphere and it is desired that this be a low resistance passageway so as to not further impede the movement of the piston and driver during their downward stroke. The gas above the piston is not vented to atmosphere but instead remains within the displacement volume which is also in fluidic communication with the main storage chamber .

One aspect of the present invention is to provide a rather large storage space or volume to hold the pressurized gas that is also used to drive the piston downward during a driving stroke of the driver . There is a fluidic passage between the upper portion of the cylinder and the main storage chamber . In the illustrated second embodiment the cylinder wall does not extend all the way to the top end region . It is preferred that the volume of the main storage chamber be larger than the total volume of the cylinder working spaces i.e. the displacement volume by a volumetric ratio of at least 2.0 1 and more preferably at least 3.0 1. This will allow for a powerful stroke and a quick stroke moreover it provides for an efficient operating air spring.

The illustrated second embodiment of the present invention allows for both a quick firing or driving stroke time and also a fairly quick lifting time to bring the driver back to its upper position ready for the next firing driving stroke. Both of these mechanical actions can sequentially occur in less than 340 milliseconds combined time and allow a user to quickly place fasteners into a surface. In one operating mode of the present invention the human user can hold the trigger in the engaged position and quickly place a fastener at a desired location merely by pressing the nose or bottom of the tool against the working surface to actuate the fastener driver and place the fastener. Then the user can quickly remove the fastener driver tool from that surface and move it to a second position along the work surface while still depressing the trigger the entire time and then press the nose or bottom of the tool against the working surface at a different position and it will drive a fastener at that different position. This is referred to as a bottom fire capability and when using the illustrated embodiment it can occur virtually as fast as a human can place the tool against a surface then pick up the tool and accurately place it against the surface at a different position and thereby repeat these steps as often as desired until emptying the magazine of fasteners. This type of mode of operation will be discussed in greater detail below in connection with the logic flow chart starting at with respect to the control system of the fastener driving tool .

Referring now to another side sectional view is provided that shows some of the elements beneath the latch and other portions of the second embodiment fastener driving tool . There are two limit switches and . The limit switch is a Hall effect sensor that detects movements of the magnet of the rotary to linear lifter as noted above . The limit switch is a small electromechanical limit switch that detects movement of the upper arm which is a portion of the safety contact element that is pushed rearward or up in these views with respect to the overall tool when the nose of the tool is pressed against a working surface. These limit switches provide electrical input signals to the controller which is discussed below in greater detail. It will be understood that other types of sensors could be used instead of electromechanical limit switches or Hall effect switches such as optoelectronic sensors or magnetic sensors or even a metal sensing proximity switch.

Also viewed on is a return spring which causes the safety contact element to be pushed back downward in this view once the user releases the nose of the tool from the working surface. In addition there is a depth of drive adjustment at .

As generally indicated on at a reference numeral the driver may be driven toward the exit end by a type of driver actuation device other than a gas spring. For example the driver member could have a top circular area that is forced downward in this view by a mechanical spring which could be a fast acting coil spring for example thereby also causing driver to move downward in this view . Or an alternative driver actuation device could use a different type of mechanical force for example applied by compressed foam in the area at . In such alternative embodiments there would be no need for a cylinder at all and instead the spring or other device at would merely need a mechanical guide to keep it moving in a correct motion.

Further alternative ways to force the driver of to move in a driving stroke toward the exit end are the use of a fast acting motor or the use of a compressed gas valve releasing compressed air into a cylinder against for example a piston instead of the circular area or perhaps a pressurized liquid valve releasing pressurized hydraulic fluid into a cylinder against the piston for example . If a piston is used with compressed gas or pressurized liquid then a cylinder not shown would also be added to the unit of instead of merely using a mechanical guide.

Referring now to further details of the solenoid are viewed. In the solenoid has a plunger that will move linearly either in or out from the main coil body of the solenoid . When the solenoid is energized it pulls the plunger in toward the solenoid body which rotates a solenoid arm part of the solenoids linkage which in turn rotates the latch shaft that also rotates the latch a small arcuate distance. This causes the latch to disengage from an interfering position with the driver . On the other hand when the solenoid becomes de energized the plunger will be pushed out by the plunger spring which will rotate the solenoid arm a short distance and that in turn rotates the latch shaft and the latch . This will tend to cause the latch to engage the teeth along the right hand side as seen in of the driver . However since this is a spring action the teeth can slide against the surface of the latch and move the latch out of the way if the teeth are attempting to move upward along with the driver . However the spring action of the solenoid plunger spring will be strong enough to push the latch into its engaged position and any teeth attempting to move downward will be caught by the catching surface of the latch .

This catching action of the latch has more than one benefit. In the first place the latch remains in its interfering position as the piston is lifted to its top or firing position. The driver cannot be fired until the latch is moved out of the way as discussed above. On the other hand if there is some type of jam or an improper use of the tool by a user such that the driver does not totally complete its travel during a firing driving stroke the latch will also prevent a misfire from occurring at an inconvenient time.

More specifically if the driver jams during a driving stroke and if a person tries to clear the jam and if there was no precaution taken to prevent the remainder of the stroke from occurring at that moment then possibly an injury could occur when the driver suddenly becomes released from its jammed condition. In other words a fastener could be driven during the attempt to clear the jam and that fastener would likely be directed somewhere that is not the original target surface. In the present invention the latch will have its solenoid become de energized once the jam occurs because solenoid will de energize after a timeout interval occurs and therefore the latch will be engaged and the catching surface will be in a position to interfere with the downward movement of the driver teeth . By use of this configuration the driver could only move a short distance even if the jam was suddenly cleared because the latch catching surface will literally catch the next tooth that unexpectedly comes along during a downward travel of the driver . This makes the tool much safer in situations where a complete driving stroke has not occurred.

The process for controlling the solenoid and the moments when the solenoid will either be energized or de energized are discussed below in connection with the flow chart that begins on .

It will be understood that the latch or could be controlled by a device other than a solenoid without departing from the principles of the present invention. For example the solenoid or could be replaced by motor or some type of air or hydraulic valve if desired. Moreover the latch action could be linear rather than rotational pivotable if desired.

With respect to various types of firing or driving modes a trigger fire mode is where the user first presses the tool nose against a working surface and then depresses the trigger actuator . It is the trigger being depressed that causes the driving stroke to occur in this situation. With respect to a bottom fire mode the trigger is actuated first and then the user presses the nose of the tool against a work surface and it is the work surface contact that causes the driving stroke to occur. As discussed above the user can continue to hold the trigger down while pressing against and releasing the tool from the work surface multiple times and obtain quick multiple firing strokes or driving strokes thereby quickly dispensing multiple fasteners into the working surface at various locations.

There is also an optional restrictive firing mode in which the nose of the tool must be first placed against a working surface before the trigger is pulled. If the sequence of events does not unfold in that manner then the driving stroke will not occur at all. This is strictly an optional mode that is not used by all users and certainly in not all situations.

With regard to alternative embodiments of the present invention second embodiment an exemplary fastener driving tool can be made with a main storage chamber volume of about 11.25 cubic inches and a cylinder displacement volume of about 3.75 cubic inches. This would provide a volumetric ratio of the main storage chamber versus the displacement volume of about 3.0 1. As discussed above it is desirable for the volumetric ratio of the main storage chamber s volume to the displacement volume to be at least 2.0 1 and it could be much higher if desired by the fastener driving tool s designer.

The working pressure in the system could be around 120 PSIG and should probably be at least 100 PSIG for a quick firing tool. By the term working pressure the inventors are referring to the pressure in the displacement volume and main storage chamber at the time the piston is at its ready position which is when it is at or proximal to its uppermost travel position.

It should be noted that other gases besides air can be used for the main storage chamber and the displacement volume if desired. While air will work fine in many or most applications alternative gases could be used as the charge gas such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen gas. Moreover the use of nitrogen gas can have other benefits during the manufacturing stage such as for curing certain adhesives for example.

In the illustrated second embodiment there is no fill valve on the fastener driving tool at the storage tank main storage chamber . This is a preferred mode of the present invention although an optional fill valve could be provided if desired by a tool designer. The design of the preferred mode of the present invention is such that the charge gas should not significantly leak from the tool and therefore a fill valve would not be required.

Another feature of the present invention is that a variable stroke is possible by causing the rotary to linear lifter to be rotated a multiple number of times to create a shorter or longer firing driving stroke if desired. In the illustrated second embodiment the lifter makes a complete rotation two times to lift the piston from its lower most position to its top most position. This number of rotations of the lifter could be increased to three times or four times if desired or even could be decreased to a single turn for a shorter stroke tool if desired.

Another possible variation is to use a composite sleeve for the internal cylinder wall which would make contact with the seals of the piston . In addition the outer pressure vessel wall could also be made of a composite material if desired. The use of a carbon fiber composite for example would decrease weight but would maintain the desired strength.

Referring now to some of the details of the piston arrangement are illustrated in cross section for the second embodiment of the present invention. This piston is designated by the reference number . There are upper and lower seals at and respectively. Between these seals is an annular space that is at least partially filled with lubricating fluid such as oil. This oil will tend to lubricate the movements of the piston along the inner surface of the cylinder wall . Part of the piston mechanism of this embodiment includes a piston scraper .

The seals and are designed to hold the oil within the annular space indefinitely or at least to lose the oil only at a very slow rate. In a preferred mode of the invention the seals have a slick coating material to provide a long operational life. In the illustrated embodiment an exemplary material for this coating is XYLAN which is a TEFLON material that includes molybdenum powder.

The driver element of tool and the driver element of tool both retract into their respective working cylinder areas and . This is a unique arrangement in that some of the driver s latching protrusions or teeth and also retract into the working cylinder areas and . This is made possible by the positioning of the respective lifters and and by the shapes of the driver elements and and also by the sealing arrangement of the pistons and discussed in the previous paragraphs.

It will be understood that the fastener magazine portion of tool and the fastener magazine portion of the tool are essentially optional features. In other words the fastener driving tools and could be constructed to act as single shot devices and no magazine would be provided for such a tool. Alternatively the tools and could be provided with a standard detachable magazine but the tools themselves could also be constructed to work in a single shot mode such that a single fastener is placed in the tool or near its front end or tip e.g. near and that single fastener is then driven by tool or . In this mode the magazine or could be dismounted from the tool or during the single shot procedure later the magazine or could be re mounted to the tool or and the collated fasteners in the magazine could then be driven by the tool as desired by the user.

Referring now to an alternative embodiment rotary to linear lifter is illustrated generally designated by the reference numeral . Lifter has only a single protrusion or pin at and the lifter rotates about a pivot axis at . The outer perimeter shape of lifter is mainly arcuate at and only comprises a small sector of a full circle. Yet lifter can achieve the goals of the present invention in that its protrusion will provide a discontinuous contact surface with the teeth of a driver element such as the driver or driver . Lifter having only a single pin would need to rotate more quickly that the other lifters and described above and in the drawings showing the first and second embodiments of a tool or assuming that it was attempting to lift a driver having the same size and shape and teeth spacings as those previously described drivers .

Referring now to another alternative embodiment rotary to linear lifter is illustrated generally designated by the reference numeral . Lifter has two protrusions or pins at and and the lifter rotates about a pivot axis at . The outer perimeter shape of lifter has a very irregular geometric shape at . Yet lifter can achieve the goals of the present invention in that its protrusions and will provide a discontinuous contact surface with the teeth of a driver element such as the driver or driver . Lifter having only two pins would need to rotate more quickly that the other lifters and described above and in the drawings showing the first and second embodiments of a tool or assuming that it was attempting to lift a driver having the same size and shape and teeth spacings as those previously described drivers .

Referring now to yet another alternative embodiment rotary to linear lifter is illustrated generally designated by the reference numeral . Lifter has three protrusions or pins at and and the lifter rotates about a pivot axis at . The outer perimeter shape of lifter has a very regular geometric shape at which is that of a circle. Yet lifter can achieve the goals of the present invention in that its protrusions and will provide a discontinuous contact surface with the teeth of a driver element such as the driver or driver . Lifter having three pins would need to rotate generally at the same speed as the other lifters and described above and in the drawings showing the first and second embodiments of a tool or assuming that it was attempting to lift a driver having the same size and shape and teeth spacings as those previously described drivers .

Referring now to still another alternative embodiment rotary to linear lifter is illustrated generally designated by the reference numeral . Lifter has two protrusions or pins at and and the lifter rotates about a pivot axis at . The outer perimeter shape of lifter has a very regular geometric shape at which is that of a square. Yet lifter can achieve the goals of the present invention in that its protrusions and will provide a discontinuous contact surface with the teeth of a driver element such as the driver or driver . Lifter having only two pins would need to rotate more quickly that the other lifters and described above and in the drawings showing the first and second embodiments of a tool or assuming that it was attempting to lift a driver having the same size and shape and teeth spacings as those previously described drivers .

Referring now to a logic flow chart is provided to show some of the important steps used by a system controller for the fastener driving tool of the second illustrated embodiment for the present invention. Starting at an initializing step a step loads registers with predetermined values and a step loads special function registers with predetermined values. A step now checks the RAM Random Access Memory to be sure it is functioning properly and then a step clears the RAM. A step now loads unused RAM with predetermined values based on the software coding for the system controller typically in firmware or hard coded .

A step now determines the stability of the system electrical power supply. Then a step causes an electrical output to blink one or more LEDs light emitting diodes on tool so the user is made aware that the tool has entered its startup mode of operation. Step also initializes the interrupts that will be used for the controller and the controller is now ready to enter into an operational routine.

A decision step now determines if the safety has been actuated i.e. whether the safety contact element has been pressed against a solid object to an extent that actuates the sensor e.g. limit switch . Step also determines if the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is YES for either of these questions then the logic flow is directed to a step . If the answer is NO for both of these questions then the logic flow is directed to another decision step .

Step determines whether or not the LEDs have flashed a predetermined maximum number of times. If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed to step . If the answer is NO then the logic flow loops back to step .

At a step the control logic enters a BEGIN routine. A decision step now determines whether or not the current operating mode is the RESTRICTIVE mode. This determination involves inspecting the current state of the selector switch which as noted above has three positions Off Mode A or Mode B . This three position switch is part of an exemplary arrangement of the second embodiment of the fastener driving tool and in this description of the second tool embodiment Mode A and Mode B are also referred to as a Restrictive Mode and a Contact Actuation Mode. 

If the current operating mode is not the RESTRICTIVE mode then the logic flow is directed to a decision step . On the other hand if the current mode is the RESTRICTIVE mode then the logic flow is directed to a step in which the tool enters a restrictive fire routine. The logic flow is directed now to a decision step that determines if the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a decision step . On the other hand if the trigger has been pulled then the logic flow is directed to a step that will further direct the logic flow to the STOP 1 function or routine at a step on . It should be noted that in the restrictive fire mode of operation the trigger cannot be pulled first instead the nose of the fastener driving tool must be pushed against the solid surface before the trigger is pulled. In other words this particular firing mode is a predetermined sequential mode of operation and the term restrictive fire mode is also referred to herein as the sequential mode .

If the logic flow at decision step resulted in a NO result the logic flow at decision step determines whether or not the safety has been actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to the restrictive fire routine just before step . However if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step in which the controller turns on the work light which is a small electric lamp e.g. an LED that illuminates the workpiece where the fastener is to be driven.

A decision step now determines whether or not a sequential mode timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that directs the logic flow to the STOP 1 function at step on . This temporarily stops the tool from operating. On the other hand if the timeout has not yet occurred the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is NO the logic flow is directed back to the decision step . On the other hand if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that causes the tool to enter the DRIVE mode of operation at step on .

If the answer at step was NO the decision step now determines whether or not the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step in which the logic flow enters a TRIGGER routine. A step turns on a work light which is the same lamp LED that was discussed above in reference to step .

A decision step now determines whether or not a predetermined trigger timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES a step directs the logic flow to a STOP 1 routine that is illustrated on at a step . What this actually means is that a user pulled the trigger but then did not actually use the tool against a solid surface and rather than having the tool ready and primed to fire a fastener at any moment for an indefinite period of time a predetermined amount of time will pass i.e. the timeout interval and once that has occurred the system will be basically deactivated in the STOP mode. This is not a permanent stoppage of the functioning of the tool but is only temporary. Note that the timeouts are interrupt driven in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

If the timeout has not occurred at decision step then a decision step determines if the safety has been actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to the BEGIN routine . On the other hand if the safety has been actuated at step then the logic flow is directed to a step that will send the logic flow to a DRIVE routine which is on at a step . This will be discussed below in greater detail.

If at step the trigger was not yet pulled then the logic flow is directed to the decision step . When the logic flow reaches decision step the logic now determines whether or not the safety has been actuated. This step determines whether or not the safety contact element has been pressed against a solid object to an extent that actuates the sensor e.g. limit switch which means that the tool is now pressed against a surface where the user intends to place a fastener. If the answer is NO the logic flow is directed back to the mode switch query at decision step . However if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step in which the controller enters a SAFETY routine.

Once at the SAFETY routine at step a step turns on the work light which is the same lamp LED that was discussed above in reference to step . A decision step now determines whether or not a safety timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that directs the logic flow to the STOP function at step on . This temporarily stops the tool from operating. On the other hand if the timeout has not yet occurred the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether the trigger has been pulled. If the answer is NO the logic flow is directed back to the decision step . On the other hand if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that causes the tool to enter the DRIVE mode of operation at step on .

As can be seen by reviewing the flow chart of unless the tool is in the restrictive fire mode at step the tool can be actuated with either one of the two important triggering steps occurring first i.e. the trigger could be pulled before the safety is actuated or vice versa.

Referring now to the logic flow from is directed to the DRIVE routine from two other steps on these are step and step . Once at the DRIVE routine a switch debounce step is executed to determine whether or not one or both of the triggering elements was somehow only actuated intermittently. If so the system designers have determined that the tool should not operate until it is more certain that the input switches have actually been actuated. To do this the logic flow is directed to a decision step to determine if the safety is still actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow back to the SAFETY routine at step . On the other hand if the safety still is actuated at step then the logic flow is directed to a decision step to determine if the trigger is still being pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow back to the TRIGGER routine at step .

On the other hand if decision steps and are both answered affirmatively then a step clears the operational timers and the logic flow is then directed to a decision step that determines if the software code flow is within certain parameters. This is a fault checking mode of the software itself and if the system does not determine a satisfactory result then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to a STOP routine at a step on . This will ultimately turn the tool off and require a safety inspection of the tool or at least have the tool reset. However the tool does not need to be completely disabled and after the safety inspection and tool reset procedure the tool will be ready to use again without being sent to a service center. In an exemplary mode of the invention the code flow check step determines if a correct number resides in a register or memory location this number is the result of being incremented at predetermined executable steps of the software for the system controller.

If the software code flow check is within acceptable parameters at decision step then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns on the motor and then a step that turns on the solenoid. A step now starts the solenoid timer and a step now starts the motor run timer. As will be discussed below these timers will be periodically checked by the system controller to make sure that certain things have occurred while the solenoid is on and while the motor is running. Otherwise after a predetermined maximum amount of time the motor will be turned off and the solenoid will be turned off due to these timers actually timing out which should not occur if the tool is being used in a normal operation and if the tool is functioning normally.

In addition to the solenoid and motor run timers discussed above a dwell timer is used to allow the tool to begin its normal operation before any further conditions are checked. This is accomplished by a decision step on which causes the logic flow to essentially wait a short amount of time before continuing to the next logic steps.

Once the dwell timer has finished at step the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the solenoid on time has been exceeded. If the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the solenoid. This situation does not necessarily mean the tool is being misused or is not functioning properly and therefore the logic flow does not travel to a stop step from the step . Instead the logic flow is directed to a decision step discussed below.

If the solenoid on time has not been exceeded then the logic flow also is directed to the decision step which determines if the cam limit switch has received a first signal. This is the Hall effect sensor that detects the presence or absence of the magnet of the lifter. If the tool of the illustrated embodiment is being used the lifter will make two complete rotations when lifting the driver and piston from their bottom most positions to their top most positions. Therefore the cam limit switch will receive two different signals during this lift. Step determines if the first signal has occurred. If not then a decision step determines whether the motor timeout has occurred. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to decision step . On the other hand if the motor run timer has indeed timed out then the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to a STOP routine at step . This would likely indicate that there is a problem with the tool or a problem with the way the user is attempting to operate the tool.

Referring back to decision step if the first signal from the cam has occurred then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the solenoid. This will allow the latch to engage the teeth of the driver in case there has been some type of jam or other type of unusual operation while the driver and piston are being lifted. It also allows the latch eventually to properly engage the bottom most tooth of the driver which is the normal operation once the driver and piston have been raised to their top most or firing position.

The logic flow is now directed to a decision step that determines whether a second signal has been received from the cam limit switch. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether or not the motor run timer has timed out. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed back to decision step . On the other hand if the motor timer has timed out the logic flow is directed to a step that directs the logic flow to the STOP routine at and indicates that there is some type of problem.

Once decision step determines that the second signal from the cam has been received then the logic flow is directed to a step that turns off the motor then to a step that starts a reset timeout referred to as all switches on. In this mode it is either assumed that both the actuation input devices are still actuated or at least that the controller needs to make an examination of those input devices to see what the proper status of the tool should be. Accordingly the logic flow is first directed to a decision step which determines whether the operator mode selector switch is set to the Restrictive Mode and if not the logic flow is directed to a decision step discussed below .

If the answer is YES at step the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines whether or not the reset timeout has occurred. If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed to a step and the tool is then enters the STOP1 routine at step on . If the answer was NO at step a decision step determines whether or not the safety is still actuated or pulled . If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed back to step if the answer is NO the logic flow is directed to a decision step which determines whether or not the trigger is still being pulled. If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed back to step if the answer is NO the logic flow is directed to a step and the tool then enters the BEGIN routine at step on .

Back at step if the current selector switch mode was not Restrictive then the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the safety is still actuated. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that then sends the logic flow to the BEGIN routine at step on . On the other hand if the safety is still actuated the logic flow is directed to a decision step that determines if the trigger is still pulled. If the answer is NO then the logic flow is directed to a step that also directs the logic flow to the BEGIN step at on . Finally if the trigger is still being pulled then a decision step determines whether or not a reset timeout has occurred and if the answer is YES the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to the STOP 1 routine at step on . If the reset timeout has not yet occurred at step then the logic flow is directed back to the decision step and the inspection of all of the switches will again be performed.

The logic flow is continued on in which there are two different types of stop routines. The routine called STOP at step will first turn off the motor at a step turn off the solenoid at a step and turn off the work light at a step . The STOP routine will then clear the timers at a step . The logic flow then becomes a DO Loop and continues back to the STOP routine at step . This is a fault mode and the tool must be inspected. As a minimum it needs to be reset to terminate the DO Loop processing of the software which means that the battery must be disconnected from the tool. If the user has been using the tool properly this may be an indication that there is some operational problem with the tool itself or that a fastener perhaps has jammed somewhere in the tool and the operator did not notice that fact.

The other type of STOP routine is the STOP routine at step . Once that occurs a step turns off the motor turn off the solenoid at a step and turn off the work light at a step . The STOP 1 routine will then clear the timers at a step and a decision step determines whether or not the trigger is still pulled. If the answer is YES then the logic flow is directed back to the STOP 1 routine at step . If the trigger is not pulled at step the logic flow is then directed to a decision step that determines if the safety is still actuated. If YES the logic flow is directed back to the STOP 1 routine at step . However if the safety is not actuated the logic flow is directed to a step that sends the logic flow to the BEGIN routine at step on . At this point the tool has been successfully used and is ready for the next firing driving actuation.

In the above detailed description there are a number of various timeouts that may occur during the operation of the tools built according to the present invention. As of the writing of this patent application all of the timeout intervals are set for three 3 seconds. However each of the timeouts is designed so as to be independently settable by the system designer in case it becomes desirable to alter one or more of the individual timeout intervals i.e. to a time value other than three seconds . Normally this would be done in software code stored in the memory circuit used to instruct the processing circuit in its operations although hardware timers could instead be used.

It will also be understood that the logical operations described in relation to the flow charts of and can be implemented using sequential logic such as by using microprocessor technology or using a logic state machine or perhaps by discrete logic it even could be implemented using parallel processors. One preferred embodiment may use a microprocessor or microcontroller to execute software instructions that are stored in memory cells within an ASIC. In fact the entire microprocessor or microcontroller along with RAM and executable ROM may be contained within a single ASIC in one mode of the present invention. Of course other types of circuitry could be used to implement these logical operations depicted in the drawings without departing from the principles of the present invention.

It will be further understood that the precise logical operations depicted in the flow charts of and and discussed above could be somewhat modified to perform similar although not exact functions without departing from the principles of the present invention. The exact nature of some of the decision steps and other commands in these flow charts are directed toward specific future models of fastener driver tools those involving Senco Products tools for example and certainly similar but somewhat different steps would be taken for use with other models or brands of fastener driving tools in many instances with the overall inventive results being the same.

Other aspects of the present invention may have been present in earlier fastener driving tools sold by the Assignee Senco Products Inc. or Senco Brands Inc. including information disclosed in previous U.S. patents and published applications. Examples of such publications are patent numbers U.S. Pat. No. 6 431 425 U.S. Pat. No. 5 927 585 U.S. Pat. No. 5 918 788 U.S. Pat. No. 5 732 870 U.S. Pat. No. 4 986 164 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 679 719.

All documents cited in the Background of the Invention and in the Detailed Description of the Invention are in relevant part incorporated herein by reference the citation of any document is not to be construed as an admission that it is prior art with respect to the present invention.

The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Any examples described or illustrated herein are intended as non limiting examples and many modifications or variations of the examples or of the preferred embodiment s are possible in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The embodiment s was chosen and described in order to illustrate the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to particular uses contemplated. It is intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

While this invention has been described with respect to embodiments of the invention the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains and which fall within the limits of the appended claims.

