---

title: System for implementing internet-based games with a core platform, game modules, and protected game outcome generator
abstract: An internet gaming system includes a core platform, and a vertical extension functionality configured with the core platform and having a first application programming interface. A plurality of game specific modules are provided with a hardware and software configuration to conduct different respective Internet-based games with players via an Internet lottery site, with each game specific module including a dedicated second application programming interface. Input/output data between the core platform and the game specific modules occurs only through the first and second application programming interfaces. A secure game outcome generator has a hardware and software configuration to determine a game outcome for each game played via the system and is linked to the core platform via a secure interface with the vertical extension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09539501&OS=09539501&RS=09539501
owner: Scientific Games International, Inc.
number: 09539501
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131010
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 712 484 filed on Oct. 11 2012 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The subject matter of the present application relates to systems and methods for increasing the security functionality auditability and velocity of payment of Internet games to enable configurations of deterministic random and player alterable Internet games.

Lottery games have become a time honored method of raising revenue for state and federal governments the world over. Traditional scratch off and on line games have evolved over decades supplying increasing revenue year after year. However after decades of growth the sales curves associated with traditional games seem to be flattening out. Consequently both lotteries and their service providers are presently searching for new forms of gaming.

To date there has been much speculation about enabling various lottery products to become available to the consumer over the Internet. The benefits are obvious greater accessibility and a richer gaming environment for the player resulting in enhanced sales. However there are various jurisdictional laws and statutes e.g. the United States Wire Act involving interstate gambling that in the past have brought into question the legality of such an enterprise. Though recently the United States Department of Justice concluded that the Wire Act s . . . prohibitions relate solely to sport related gambling activities in interstate and foreign commerce . . . . 

In the past United States lotteries have used the Internet as a vehicle for disseminating information about their lottery organizations their games and their promotions. They have also used the Internet for simulations of classic instant ticket games games solely for entertainment without a fee a means to communicate with players for selling subscriptions to traditional lotto games and for second chance drawings drawings for prizes resulting from non winning experiences based on the sale of a regular lottery ticket through historic channels. However now that it would appear that Internet lottery games are to become part of the fare offered by US and other jurisdictions lotteries appropriate adherence to lottery security and fair play standards is essential as is designing a mechanism that meets applicable political and legal constraints.

To ensure that these standards and constraints are maintained through the rollout of Internet gaming it is logical to initially at least provide Internet games of a deterministic nature wherein the outcome i.e. prize winning status is regulated either by a secured validation file or some form of Pseudo Random Number Generator PRNG . The significant point being that the game outcome is determined by lottery controlled factors outside of any decisions or controls available to the consumer of the Internet game. This type of deterministic gaming mimics the games currently offered by lotteries e.g. scratch off tickets Pick 3 Pick 4 Powerball etc. thereby making it a simpler task to ensure that security and standards are maintained.

However over the years United States lotteries have come to appreciate the virtues of producing games with more entertainment value that can be sold at a premium price. For instance ten dollar scratch ticket games with higher paybacks and more ways to win now account for over 5 billion a year in United States lottery sales. Making Internet delivered games more challenging and introducing skill levels e.g. Internet Poker may help attract a new player base and consequently increase revenue. Additionally since more challenge gaming formats often require a large player base an ideal security audit system would also accommodate networking players as well as jurisdictions together while still ensuring fairness and auditability. Thus while initially lottery controlled Internet gaming sites may be limited to deterministic games an ideal security and audit system would create a foundation that allows for the gradual expansion of lottery Internet gaming themes to evolve to include player alterable games over a large player base ultimately allowing a player s decision to influence the game s outcome and thereby determine if he or she has won a prize.

Moreover as gaming technology and systems continue to evolve and become more sophisticated numerous new types of lottery related games and products become available that require new methods of security and auditing to ensure lottery rules are maintained. Thus it is highly desirable to develop a lottery Internet gaming platform that provides security and auditing methods for new Internet gaming opportunities. Ideally this lottery Internet security platform should be evolutionary in nature starting with a familiar format that gradually introduces a consumer to Internet and other new gaming formats.

Objects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the following description or may be obvious from the description or may be learned through practice of the invention.

Various inventions are enabled by the present description. A particular one of these inventions includes embodiments related to an Internet gaming system having a core platform with a hardware and software configuration to provide common functionalities to a plurality of different Internet based games made available for play on an Internet game site. These different games may be provided by a common or different game developer to a lottery authority or administrator. The games are different in that they generally have separate prize structures although different themed games may be provided within a common prize structure as described more fully herein.

The system includes a vertical extension functionality configured with the core platform wherein core platform input output data is transmitted through the vertical extension. The vertical extension includes a first application programming interface. A plurality of game specific modules are provided wherein each module includes a hardware and software configuration to conduct at least one of the different respective games with players via the Internet game site. Each game specific module includes a dedicated second application programming interface wherein input output data between the core platform and the game specific modules occurs only through the first and second application programming interfaces in the vertical extension.

The system includes a secure game outcome generator having a hardware and software configuration to determine a game outcome for each game played via the system. This secure game outcome generator is linked to the core platform via a secure interface with the vertical extension that is separate from the first and second application programming interfaces. Because of the isolation functionality provided by the vertical extension including the application programming interfaces the secure game outcome generator is not accessible by the game specific module through the vertical extension.

In a particular embodiment the game specific modules are provided by different game developers with the second application programming interface being generic to the game specific modules from different developers.

In certain embodiments the game specific modules operate on a physically separate server from the core platform and may include a firewall operatively configured between the first and second application programming interfaces.

The core platform may include generic functionality components for all games provided by the system regardless of the type of games enabled by the different game specific modules. For example the core platform may include an electronic commerce functionality component a customer relationship management functionality component and a player history archive functionality component. In certain embodiments the electronic commerce functionality component is linked to an external banking system via a secure firewall to provide any manner of financial transaction to enable payment credit of funds for play of the games.

The game specific modules may be variously configured. In one embodiment each of the game specific modules includes a game engine that executes all logic functions for play of the specific game and a presentation resources component that controls audio and visual display of the game to the player. This component may be periodically updated to change appearance of the game presented to the player.

The secure game outcome generator may operate on the same or a physically separate server from the core platform wherein a firewall is operatively configured between the vertical extension and the secure game outcome generator.

In some embodiments the secure game outcome generator may include an interface separate from the vertical extension wherein game specific outcome files are loaded into the secure game outcome generator for each game specific module. The game specific outcome files may include a validation file for each game play enabled by the respective game specific module wherein the number of winners and losers for the totality of game plays enabled by the game specific module is predetermined by the validation files. The validation files may be linked to respective game plays by a code e.g. provided on a ticket supplied to the player entered by a player upon initiating play of the game via the Internet wherein the code is received by the game module passed through the first and second application programming interfaces of the vertical extension to the core platform with the core platform relaying the code to the game outcome generator. In further embodiments the game outcome generator relays a predetermined game result dictated by the linked validation file back through the core platform and first and second application programming interfaces to the game specific module which conducts and presents the game to the player to reflect the outcome. The game specific modules may include a plurality of different themed games with the player being provided the option to select one of the games for play. The plurality of different themed games may share a common prize structure such that the predetermined game result is applicable to whichever game is selected for play by the player.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the inventive methods and systems one or more examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each embodiment is presented by way of explanation of the invention and not as a limitation of the invention. For example features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used with another embodiment to yield still a further embodiment. It is intended that the present invention include these and other modifications and variations as come within the scope and spirit of the invention.

Security benefits to the overall architecture of are numerous including isolating the game specific module from the core platform at the vertical extension with an API and . The API of and only allow specified Input Output I O between the core platform and the game specific module algorithm . From a security perspective this is significant since the game specific module will vary from game to game and may be developed by parties other than a lottery or game operator. This uncertainty of developers begs the possibility of malware being introduced into the gaming system through a possible third party developer of the game specific module . More importantly the game specific module is the software that will interface to the consumer and consequently the outside world. Thus the greater degree of isolation of the game specific module from the core platform and ultimately the game outcome generator the better. By restricting the game specific module I O to the vertical extension via APIs and all interaction to the core platform are governed by the APIs. Hence with judicious care of the core platform API development the predetermined game module can operate within its own memory space or sandbox with its only access to the core platform via the API which due to the limited number of API calls allow for interface protection e.g. buffer overflow attacks to be built into the core functionality of each API call. Additionally by only allowing the isolated game specific module to conduct I O through vertical extension APIs and the game specific module has no direct access to the game outcome server which ultimately determines if a prize will be awarded for any game.

This general concept of isolation for the game specific module can be extended to another level by only allowing the game specific module to operate on a physically separate server. As illustrated in isolating the game specific module on a separate physical server easily allows for an additional firewall to be placed between the game specific module API and the vertical extension API thereby further segregating the gaming system to only the game specific module memory and hardware. With this isolation even if an offsite hacker was somehow able to gain root access to the game specific module server the security breach would still be confined just to that server with the game outcome generator as well as other core platform functionality still remaining protected. Indeed since the game specific module only communicates with the core platform via APIs and the security settings on the firewall between the two can be configured extremely tight only allowing predefined I O packets from predefined Internet Protocol IP addresses to pass. Another feature of this separate server configuration is that loading of the game server due to the popularity of one or more games will not impact the performance of the core platform . Additionally isolation of the game server readily adapts to allowing multiple game servers to be installed for different games.

As also illustrated in this isolation paradigm can be further expanded to isolate the core platform electronic commerce s I O to an external banking system e.g. debit card issuing processor direct deposit withdraw prepaid account PayPal account etc. with its own firewall . Like the game module the finite set of I O calls between the electronic commerce s functionality and the external banking system allow for the firewall security settings to be configured extremely tight only allowing predefined I O packets from predefined IP addresses to pass.

Returning to a description of the primary components of the Internet gaming system the core platform game module and game outcome generator as its name implies the core platform is designed to be the stable platform that does not change from game to game. The core platform provides and maintains the standard services required of all games including the vertical extension and associated API for all intra system I O associated with each game module . As previously discussed the finite nature of the core platform API allows for a degree of isolation from the game module as well as establishing a generic interface for game module development. The core platform API allows access to specified functionality with the core platform s three key components of electronic commerce Customer Relationship Management CRM and player history and accounting archive . Additionally the core platform s vertical extension also allows for gaming related I O between the separate game outcome generator through a secure interface that ideally would include firewall protection as well as optionally I O with a separate banking system with its own security e.g. firewall . If secure I O with a separate banking system were employed then all I O would be conducted via the vertical extension and the electronic commerce component.

The Internet gaming system game module is designed to be unique to each game offered. However for all games the same core set of API would be employed. The primary components of the game module are the game engine and associated presentation resources . The game engine executes all logic for the game in play receiving its inputs from both the player and the game outcome generator via its API . In some embodiments the game engine outputs game play to the player as well as a log of each display outcome to the game outcome generator . Most visual and audio and other miscellaneous game functionality displayed to the player is retrieved drawn from the data maintained in the associated presentation resource component . Thus under some circumstances the appearance of the game can be changed by replacing the data in the presentation resources component of the game module e.g. changing the screen display from one lottery logo and name to another. This allows for the game module more particularly the component to be routinely updated in appearance without the need for extensive testing that would be necessitated by a change in logic in the game engine . The architecture of the game module with its fixed generic API supports implementation of a game module developer s kit wherein a multiplicity of parties can develop their own games and test them against a core platform simulator imposing few security threats to the actual Internet gaming system .

Finally the Internet gaming system secure game outcome generator is the component that ultimately determines if a game will win or lose or more to the point whether a particular player will win a prize. Thus the game outcome generator exists either within its own protected memory or on a physically different server than the core platform and or game module . This segregation of the game outcome generator not only allows for increased security with ideally its own digital gatekeepers e.g. firewall but also allows for a separate interface for game outcomes to be loaded via possibly a separately secured API that is not necessarily controlled by the same administrators as the rest of the Internet gaming system .

In a particular embodiment the separate interface could then be utilized to load validation files that determine a priori the outcome of a given game. In this embodiment the game outcome generator validation file is similar in design to a lottery central site instant ticket validation files with one file per game series and the total number of winners and losers predefined for the life of the particular game type on Internet gaming system . This time honored method of controlling individual play outcome via a validation file has the advantages of a predictable and auditable prize payout while at the same time effectively shielding players from the win lose information until a particular game is played.

There are numerous ways to link the validation file to a game being played on the Internet gaming system . In the most direct analogy to instant tickets a serial or validation number is assigned to each game played on the Internet gaming system . In this embodiment the validation number could be a specific code that the player types in to initiate game play e.g. a one time code copied from a ticket or receipt signifying that the player has prepaid for game play. In any case the game module would first receive the start code and pass the code through API and to the vertical extension of the core platform . The core platform would then relay the start code to the game outcome generator . Since the start code would be packaged in a predefined API by the game module the format of the start code and the relayed core platform IP address would be detected by the firewall or other security barriers associated with the game outcome generator and allowed to pass for processing. The game outcome generator would then utilize the entered code as a pointer to its associated validation file to determine if the ticket receipt associated with the entered code is valid to initiate Internet lottery game play and whether the game play will ultimately win any prizes. Once the final outcome of game play is determined by the game outcome generator a verification message enabling game play as well as the final outcome i.e. what if any prizes are awarded would then be transmitted from the game outcome generator through security barriers to the core platform which would then be relayed to the predetermined game module via API s and and optionally through security barrier .

Since the outcome of the game is predetermined in this embodiment the enabling communications from the game outcome generator to the predetermined game module would include the final prize amount if any . However this is not to say that the a priori determination of the final prize amount dictates the exact game and associated play style for the consumer. As illustrated in the enabling ticket purchased at the retailer may be marketed as a set amount of play e.g. 20 worth as illustrated on ticket over the Internet i.e. no specific game type or style is specified. Thus the enabling ticket does not necessarily specify what game is to be played or any play style leaving the consumer free to try any game offering on the lottery Internet site and even change games before his or her purchased amount of play is exhausted. However in one embodiment no matter what games the consumer chooses or how he or she decides to play the games the final outcome will still be determined by the activation code initially entered by the consumer.

This is possible if the multiplicity of games offered on the Internet site and all share the same prize structure. For example illustrates three different Internet lottery games and with completely different game themes. Game features a monopoly slot machine wherein the player clicks on the slot machine spin lever attempting to obtain three matching symbols in any selected row . In contrast game features a virtual dice roll that also triggers either a matching symbol or bonus display as well as a parameter of bonus features . Finally game allows the consumer to tip over one of three virtual mining carts possible revealing previously hidden gems that match a prize chart . However the seemingly three different games and all share the same common prize structure illustrated in . As an example the prize structure can be funded by tickets of type enabling play on the seemingly different games and with for example a print run of one million tickets and arbitrary prize fund of 65 resulting in overall odds of winning of 1 3.25. As shown in the associated prize structure there are fourteen different possible outcomes illustrated in column ranging from 3 to 50 000. All of these fourteen possible outcomes are supported with all three games in the example i.e. and . For example in game Diamond Mine the consumer wins by uncovering multiple gems that fill rows to win a designated prize . Reviewing each row and combinations thereof reveals that all fourteen possible outcomes from prize structure . While the play mechanics differ for the other two games and the combination of wins and loses will always be a subset of the fourteen different possible outcomes illustrated in column ranging from 3 to 50 000.

This is not to imply that one Internet gaming site and must operate only one prize structure. Multiple prize structures can be established within the same Internet gaming site with the games associated with a given prize structure linked to a subset of data e.g. three decimal digit game family number embedded in the activation code or other data that is entered by the consumer when he or she initiates play. In this embodiment the prize structure enabled by the code subset entered by the consumer would automatically trigger the family of games associated with the given prize structure to be offered to the consumer. This family of games can appear to be radically different to the player.

By utilizing a priori game outcomes with a common prize structure for a multiplicity of games the associated redemption audit and security requirements for Internet games can be significantly reduced. This is true because the various games are essentially different skins that offer varying play styles that can be switched on the fly from game to game since all games share a common prize structure. Thus no matter what series of games or plays a consumer chooses the a priori final result is assured and the prize payout if any will always remain the same for a given activation ticket. This in turn allows for the traditional lottery central site and retailer network to process validations without any interface to the Internet gaming site. This complete isolation of the Internet gaming site from the lottery payout system creates separate security Zone e.g. a complete security compromise of the Internet gaming site would have no impact on the lottery central site and consequently normal lottery operations. Additionally this separation allows both systems to run asynchronously of each other allowing loading or audit functions to be conducted at each facility without regard to operation at the other facility.

For example provides a block diagram of one possible embodiment of an Internet gaming system enabled by tickets vouchers running a multiplicity of games e.g. and of with a common prize structure e.g. of that is physically separate from the lottery central site . For clarity the block diagram of is organized where the party responsible for completing a task is designated by row with the consumer s actions confined to row the lottery central site operator and designated retailer s actions confined to row the lottery s instant ticket voucher supplier confined to row and a separate lottery Internet gaming provider confined to row .

As shown in the lottery initiates the creation of a predetermined Internet game enabled by a ticket or coupon by generating and approving specifications or working papers . Once the working papers are approved the lottery instant ticket service provider s game programming generates the data that will be used to enable play on the Internet game site . This data will be in the form of traditional instant ticket imaging that distributes the winning and non winning indicia over the ticket coupon print run as well as the cryptographically linked codes that will be loaded into the Internet gaming site game outcome generator . Once the initial game generation is completed the indicia data is printed over a ticket voucher production print run with the produced tickets shipped to the lottery distribution center and ultimately to the retailers . At approximately the same time the digital validation and ship files are transferred from game programming to the lottery central site thereby allowing the central site to validate and authorize payment for winning tickets as they are presented to the retailer. Finally game programming also generates a data file linked to the indicia data printed on tickets vouchers that is uploaded to the Internet game site game outcome generator . In one embodiment this data file could be a direct copy of the indicia printed on tickets coupons with the security of the system being maintained by a Scratch Off Coating SOC obscuring the indicia until after purchased by the consumer. However in a preferred embodiment the Internet gaming site data file differs from the lottery central site validation file as well as the ticket voucher indicia but is cryptographically linked e.g. a secure hash or Hash Message Authentication Code HMAC of indicia data. This preferred cryptographic link embodiment establishes another layer of separation and security between the lottery central site system and the Internet gaming site .

After the digital files are transferred and the tickets voucher are placed on sale at the retailer a consumer purchases a ticket voucher removes the SOC and enters the activation code indicia on the Internet gaming site . The activation information is initially received by a dummy game module whose purpose is to accept new ticket voucher entries and then passed through the Internet gaming site via the core platform and isolation firewall to the game outcome generator where the activation code is checked to determine if it is valid e.g. computationally correct not previously played etc. If the game outcome generator database were cryptographically linked to the validation code e.g. Secure Hash Algorithm SHA asymmetrical encryption etc. the game outcome generator would first process the validation code with the appropriate algorithm prior to referencing its database. Assuming the authentication code is valid the game outcome generator would then authorize play determine the final outcome and determine the appropriate prize structure and associated games for the authentication code. All of this information would then be passed through the firewall to the core platform and to the initiating dummy game module in the Internet gaming site . The consumer then selects which game s he or she wants to play based on the available predetermined game modules associated with the entered activation code and associated prize structure. The consumer then plays out the game s to conclusion ultimately revealing the a priori prize value dictated by the activation code e.g. 10. After the consumer has completed play and seen the final results displayed on his Internet viewer he would then take the same ticket voucher back to a lottery retailer for validation. The retailer would then scan the barcode on the back of the ticket voucher and enter any extra validation data. The validation request when then be passed through the normal lottery network from the retailer to the lottery central site wherein the standard instant ticket validation routine would then access the appropriate validation file and verify that the ticket was not previously redeemed and if it was a winner e.g. 10 . Assuming the ticket was a winner the payment authorization would then be transmitted back to the retailer and the retailer would pay the consumer the same prize amount that was displayed on the Internet gaming site even though the Internet gaming site and lottery central site never communicated with each other.

The previous embodiments demonstrated how the Internet gaming system would function and when entered activation code would actuate game play as well as instruct the game outcome generator as to whether or not the associated gaming experience would culminate in a win and if so for how much. In an alternate embodiment the entered activation code is only utilized to simply activate a given quantity of game play e.g. 20 worth of play as illustrated on ticket with no algorithmic link to the outcome of game play. While this embodiment has the disadvantage of not seamlessly enabling winner validation and payouts at the existing retailer terminal without any existing lottery central site modifications it has the advantage of enabling unrestricted Internet play based on the purchase price of the ticket or voucher e.g. 20 for the ticket illustrated in . Additionally since this embodiment actually denotes the amount of funds committed to Internet gaming the activation code can be used to allow purchases of games of chance that do not require a predetermined outcome e.g. draw games like Powerball Pick 3 Pick 4 etc. yet still employ the same Internet gaming system architecture of the previously described embodiments.

In an alternate embodiment the Internet gaming system uses the same three primary components as before i.e. core platform game module and game outcome generator with the core platform designed to be the stable platform that does not change from game to game while providing maintaining the standard services required of all games. As previously discussed the finite nature of the core platform API allows for a degree of isolation from the game module as well as establishes a generic interface for game module development. The core platform API allows access to specified functionality as well as gaming related I O between the separate game outcome generator and a separate banking system with separate security e.g. firewall .

Also as before the Internet gaming system game modules are designed to be unique to each game offered as well as function as an User Interface UI with the same core set of API employed. Though in a preferred embodiment the secure game outcome generator not only deals with a priori games but also can be employed to determine winning and losing status at the time of play via a Pseudo Random Number Generator PRNG or other means. Furthermore in the case of future draw games e.g. Powerball Pick 3 Pick 4 etc. the game outcome generator can also be employed to review previous bets to correctly notify and optionally credit consumers and associated accounts when a winning draw occurs. As should be appreciated these additional applications of the Internet gaming system to include both a priori and non predetermined games greatly expands the platform s utility and value while still maintaining the enhanced security of protected memory and or a physically different server than the core platform with limited APIs.

As previously stated embodiments may have the disadvantage of not being able to utilize the existing lottery infrastructure for validation and payment of prizes. Although integrating the Internet gaming system to existing closed open loop debit systems can readily mitigate this disadvantage. A closed loop account is an account that does not support general purpose payment instruments with restricted acquiring loading and issuing payment to a fixed set of institutions e.g. Starbucks and Home Depot gift cards department store layaway programs etc. while an open loop account supports general payment instruments e.g. Visa MasterCard American Express etc. debit and credit cards . By judiciously integrating both closed and open loop payment systems with the Internet gaming system a synergistic whole emerges that supports winning payouts and a multiplicity of payment systems while at the same time greatly reducing Internet gaming operating costs.

For example illustrates one possible embodiment of an integrated closed open loop debit system adapted for Internet gaming support. In this embodiment the consumer is issued two closed loop and and one open loop General Purpose Reloadable GPR sub accounts tightly integrated to appear as one overall Internet gaming account . This overall account integration allows for the consumer to perceive one overall account while at the same time allowing Internet gaming transactions to occur at little or no cost thereby enabling micro and nano wagering and prize payouts. Though the actual amount threshold differs micropayments were originally envisioned to involve transactions of less than or equal to 1 USD and nanopayments were envisioned to involve transactions of less than 10 USD . This micro and nano wagering payout support is possible because of the two closed loop accounts and integrated as part of the overall consumer s gaming account . As illustrated in closed loop wagering account can receive financial loads from a multiplicity of sources such as an acquiring processor accepting debit or credit cards over the Internet or closed looped Internet gaming gift cards sold at traditional brick and mortar retail stores or direct bank ACH Automated Clearing House transfers or from the associated GPR account etc. In all cases these financial loads are conducted as a load transaction where the resulting funds are deposited into the consumer s wagering account . Any fees associated with the financial loading process e.g. acquiring processor gateway and interchange fees for accepting a credit or debit card are garnered at the time of the load. Once deposited into the consumer s closed loop wagering account the funds can then be spent in micro or nano increments by electronically transferring the micro nano wager from the consumer s wagering account to the Internet service provider s Internet gaming account for little or no fee i.e. there is no interchange fee associated with the wager. Thus these 1 or 50 or less wager amounts can be made on each wager thereby only gradually depleting the consumer s closed loop wager account total and enabling a longer and more enjoyable play experience. Of course the cost of transfer is further reduced or even eliminated if the consumer s closed loop wagering account and the Internet service provider s Internet gaming account reside at the same banking institution.

This micro or nano payment paradigm can be extended to the Internet service provider paying out prizes. The only difference being that the funds is transferred from the Internet service provider s Internet gaming account to the consumer s closed loop winning account . Again the payment of winnings will garner little or no fees because of the closed loop nature of the accounts. Once transferred to the consumer s winning account the consumer can cash out at any time by transferring the funds again at little or no cost from the closed loop winning account to the open loop GPR account associated with the consumer s gaming account where the funds could be withdrawn from an ATM Automated Teller Machine or spent wherever the open loop association e.g. MasterCard Visa Discover etc. affiliated with the GPR account is accepted. Alternatively the consumer may elect to wager his or her winnings back onto the Internet gaming site. In this case the funds are transferred back from the closed loop winning account to the Internet service provider s Internet gaming account again with little or no fees garnered.

Another benefit of maintaining multiple closed and open loop accounts seamlessly integrated into one consumer Internet gaming account embodiment is that the Internet gaming system can subject the funds in each account to different rules and regulations. For example if the consumer s wagering account can be funded via closed loop gift cards sold at lottery retailer brick and mortar stores a potential security problem arises. The lottery retailer could establish his or her own consumer Internet gaming account and fund their wagering account by simply purchasing all of the closed loop gift cards sold at their establishment. In this example the security problem arises because the lottery retailer is typically paid a commission on the sale of each closed loop gift card e.g. 5 of the retail purchase price. Therefore assuming the retailer could then transfer these loaded funds from their wagering account to their GPR account the retailer would automatically realize a profit from purchasing their own gift cards i.e. 5 of the total funds purchased in this example. Whether technically legal or not this type of closed loop gift card money laundering would cost the Internet gaming service provider profit as well as effectively locking out legitimate consumers by lowering the availability of the closed loop gift cards on sale. However if funds loaded into the consumer s closed loop wagering account were obligated to only be spent on the Internet gaming site i.e. once loaded into the wagering account the only way to deplete funds was to transfer wagers to the Internet service provider account then the profitability of closed loop gift card money laundering would no longer exist and therefore the previously mentioned security threat would be eliminated. In this example the consumer s closed loop wagering account would not have any restrictions thereby allowing the consumer to spend the proceeds as he or she pleases.

Still another benefit of maintaining multiple closed and open loop accounts seamlessly integrated into one consumer Internet gaming account embodiment is for implementing consumer draw game e.g. Pick 3 Pick 4 Powerball etc. subscription accounts. Consumer draw game subscriptions exist when a consumer subscribes to be automatically entered into a periodic drawing for some fixed amount of money with either their preferred or randomly selected numbers. The traditional problem with draw game subscriptions is accounting for the payments over time this is a particularly vexing problem when the game involves pari mutuel payouts. Furthermore problems have arisen when the cost of a draw game e.g. Powerball from 1 a play to 2 was increased during a subscription period. All of these problems inherent in draw game subscriptions can be mitigated or eliminated with the integrated Internet gaming account embodiment of . When the consumer initially contracts for a subscription the subscribed funds are loaded into his or her wagering account . As previously described wagering account can be setup with the funds remaining in the closed loop bank account until the actual periodic draw game is accepting sales. Then on each draw game period a micro payment e.g. 1 can be debited from the consumer s wagering account and transferred to the Internet gaming provider s service account until the subscription ends and the obligated funds are exhausted. Thus for the purposes of accounting a subscription account has been modified to resemble a standard bet placed on each draw game when it occurs. Of course in this embodiment the consumer s wagering account must be configured where the consumer cannot withdraw the funds after they are loaded and the User Interface UI must also be configured to not display the obligated subscribed funds as part of the wagering account balance but both of these restrictions are simply programming parameters for the wagering account design.

Yet another benefit of the Internet gaming account embodiment is the lack of financial liability and banking type regulation inherent with the Internet gaming institution holding the consumer s funds in escrow i.e. digital wallet. As illustrated in this embodiment actually holds the consumer s funds in either closed loop and or open loop accounts that are hosted by a bank not the Internet gaming institution. Only when a wager is conducted are funds actually transferred from the consumer owned closed loop accounts and to the Internet gaming institution account . Thus each wager is a sale to the Internet gaming institution and not subject to possible banking regulations concerning holding another s funds in escrow or the liability inherent therein. When the Internet gaming institution pays out prizes the converse is also true. Each prize payout is a direct transfer from the Internet service provider s account to the consumer s winning account with no restrictions placed on the winning funds. Again the consumer s winnings are deposited directly into the consumer s closed loop winning bank account and are never held in escrow by the Internet service provider.

The advantages of the integrated consumer s closed loop and and open loop accounts being hosted by a bank are not just limited to liability reduction and differed regulation. By placing the consumer s funds under the control of a banking institution the Internet game service provider is not required to be compliant with extensive banking industry security requirements i.e. PCI Payment Card Industry thereby relieving the Internet gaming provider of the extensive compliance testing and audits associated with PCI compliance.

There are multiple embodiments for managing the User Interface UI of the integrated consumer s Internet gaming account . The most direct method is to display three separate balances for each sub account i.e. wagering account winning account and GPR account . However this embodiment has the disadvantage of potentially confusing the consumer with three different balances. A alternative is to provide a summary total of the closed loop wagering and winning accounts as a banner or running cash window as illustrated in . In this example the running cash window represents the total of the consumer s closed loop wagering and winning accounts of i.e. the total funds readily available for wagering but not the associated GPR account i.e. funds not directly available for wagering until a secondary transfer is initiated . As also illustrated in this running cash window of funds available for wagering can be separate from the number of plays or spins in a particular game. This is because the number of plays or spins represents the already purchased plays plus possible bonus plays while the running cash window represents the funds available for wagering but not committed to a particular game. In this embodiment a detailed breakdown of all three sub accounts i.e. wagering account winning account and GPR account of would be available on a consumer summary screen separate from game play.

Another UI embodiment is to illustrate the balances of the closed loop wagering and winning accounts of on an interim screen of when selecting a game to play. In this additional embodiment the wagering and winning account balances are illustrated separately under different pseudonyms i.e. Ticket Balance for and Prize Balance for that convey a more straightforward message to the consumer. Since screen is of an interim i.e. no game play directly involved nature additional information can be provided for the consumer like the original purchase or load as well as the deposition of all winning funds that would be too confusing and provide too much clutter on an actual gaming screen.

In addition to UI the integrated consumer s Internet gaming account of necessitates only one form of consumer authentication for each sub account i.e. wagering account winning account and GPR account . This one form of authentication for multiple accounts is highly desirable to avoid potential confusion for the consumer. However at the same time to avoid banking industry PCI security requirements it is also essential for the Internet game provider to have no knowledge of the consumer s GPR account or number. One possible embodiment is to cryptographically link the multiple consumer account numbers to one cipher text number maintained by the Internet game service provider with the non clear text maintained by the PCI compliant issuing processor and the banking institutions maintaining the consumer s accounts. However this embodiment has the disadvantage of key management coordination between the Internet game service provider and the issuing processor and banking institution. One alternative would be to allow the consumer to login with one account number e.g. GPR account number perform a cryptographic hash e.g. SHA of the number on the consumer s Internet access device e.g. computer smart telephone X box etc. and only pass the resulting Hash Message Authentication Code HMAC to the Internet game provider. When the Internet game service provider wishes to access the consumer s closed loop accounts i.e. wagering and winning the Internet game service provider would only pass the HMAC to the issuing processor and banking institution. The issuing processor bank would then maintain a look up table of HMAC values to account numbers. Another embodiment would be for the consumer to authenticate with only the issuing processor bank while the Internet game service provider only interacts with the issuing processor bank via a series of API calls tied to a unique session identification value.

When initially setting up an account there are varying federal and state laws for authenticating the consumer that must be accommodated e.g. Know Your Customer KYC checks for new GPR accounts that include requiring entry of a full nine digit social security number. Regrettably this level of authentication can be a deterrent to a casual player who may simply want to try Internet gaming without completing the formalities of a full KYC check for a GPR account. Fortunately the integrated system of can accommodate the casual consumer by effectively holding the GPR account in escrow unless the consumer wishes to cash out winnings via a GPR. By deferring access to the GPR until the consumer wishes to cash out winnings the burdensome and intrusive KYC process is deferred until after the gaming experience is completed or more to the point the KYC is deferred until a positive winning experience occurs and therefore the requested information no longer seems so intrusive. Additionally by deferring the KYC until a consumer wishes to cash out winnings the more expensive authentication testing is not only deferred but also only applied to presumably subset of the total number of people playing thereby providing a significant cost savings. The logistics of enabling differed KYC is tied to restricting access of the consumer to the GPR account until he or she wishes to cash out. With the integrated multiple accounts inherent in the preferred embodiment this hiding or restriction of the GPR account becomes a trivial programming exercise. Initially the consumer may be required to register with simply proof of age authentication. At its minimum proof of age may be simply answering an onscreen dialog box to the positive. A more extensive age check could be accomplished by verifying entered name and address data against a known database. At any rate the requirements for age authentication are significantly less than what is required for a GPR KYC. Once age is authenticated the consumer is given an account number identification that is linked to the overall integrated account as opposed to the GPR account number with the GPR account remaining unknown to the consumer. Thus since the consumer has no method to gain access to the GPR account number they have no way of accessing the virtual GPR account and therefore there is no need to perform a KYC at that time. When the consumer wants to cash out they can request a GPR account complete the required KYC information and then be given access and all appropriate information associated with the GPR account tied to their overall integrated account . At that time the consumer can also be asked if they would like to receive a plastic card to further utilize their GPR account.

When the preferred integrated closed open loop debit system is interfaced to the preferred non deterministic Internet gaming system the resulting synergistic system allows for both deterministic and non deterministic Internet play and wagering without impacting the traditional lottery central site see . For clarity the block diagram of is organized where the party responsible for completing a task is designated by row with the consumer s actions confined to row the lottery central site operator and designated retailer s actions confined to row the lottery s instant ticket voucher supplier confined to row the lottery Internet gaming provider confined to row and the financial service provider to row .

In the embodiment shown in there are multiplicities of methods to initiate and fund Internet play. A lottery can create a ticket or coupon with the lottery instant ticket service provider s game programming generating the data that will be used to enable play on the Internet game site . This data will be in the form of traditional instant ticket imaging that distributes the winning and non winning indicia over the ticket coupon print run as well as the cryptographically linked codes that will be loaded into the Internet gaming site game outcome generator with the associated tickets or coupons placed on sale for the consumer to purchase and enter the code for game play . Another possible method of enabling Internet game play in this embodiment is for the consumer to enable play directly with the Internet game site via debit or credit card load or ACH from their bank account .

In any case the consumer s purchase e.g. ticket debit credit card load ACH etc. enables both deterministic and non deterministic game play in this embodiment with the support of the integrated consumer accounts and the integrated closed open loop debit system subsystem that tallies the consumer s funds available for play in his or her wagering account as well as any residual winnings in the winning account . As illustrated in the consumer can communicate with either the Internet gaming system or their accounts directly though the switching between sites would most probably be transparent to the consumer. Once the consumer initiates game play his or her wagering account will transfer funding a game at a time to the Internet service provider s account interfacing via a defined API with the core platform for each game play. When the consumer wins a prize the core platform notifies the Internet service provider account to transfer the winning funds directly to the consumer s winning account .

Therefore it can be seen that the combined embodiment illustrated in enables Internet game play using a multiplicity of funding options including tickets or vouchers sold at brick and mortar retailers without impacting or necessitating any changes in the traditional lottery central site . Also this leveraging of both the existing lottery infrastructure for sales support as well as other means of funding while at the same time supporting both predetermined and non predetermined games is made possible with the embodiment s combination of integrated closed open loop debit system interfaced to the Internet gaming system .

No matter what method is employed to fund and initiate Internet gaming there remains a need to ensure secure control as well as auditability of the game outcome. In most cases for non draw games the game outcome generator of will pass game authorization game play details as well as win lose status to the game module. There are a multiplicity of embodiments for the game outcome generator to pass the a priori play authorization including the final outcome appropriate prize structure and associated games. In a preferred embodiment the a priori play data is embedded in a play script. The exact format of the play script can vary though it is preferred to use a standard format like Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON . The significant point being that the script controls or sets the parameters for all parts of the game s that can impact the outcome i.e. whether the consumer wins a prize or not.

For example illustrates a preferred embodiment of a play script . In this example each game play within the play script is provided with a header identifying the game and other parameters including unique sequence inventory and validation numbers. Immediately following the header is a seed data node containing encrypted sensitive data including indicia definitions and sequences as well as whether this particular game play will win and the associated prize. Finally immediately following the cipher text is the terminator indicating the end of the script for this game play.

The partial record encryption illustrated in functions as the digital equivalent of a Scratch Off Coating SOC . The concept being that the clear text portions of the stored play script e.g. header sequence number validation number etc. readily accommodate data lookup and auditing while at the same time prohibiting anyone with access to the play script file from being able to pick out winning plays since all sensitive i.e. win lose data is only stored as cipher text. Since the sensitive data is encrypted at the same time that play script is generated while leaving the inventory data as clear text the logistics of handling the play script are greatly simplified with routine data integrity checks record processing and audit functions all executed with clear text.

In the preferred embodiment of the sensitive cipher text exists as a character data node due to the adoption of the XML standard for play script file. Also in the embodiment of the Advanced Encryption Standard AES was employed base to encode the sensitive data. Of course it should be appreciated that different formats as well as different encryption methods can be utilized to the same effect and may be preferred under some circumstances.

An advantage of the embodiment of is that since each game play or record has its own discrete cipher text node the system has the option of either encrypting all play scripts in a game with one encryption key or utilizing multiple encryption keys e.g. one unique key for each play script for the multiple play scripts in a game. Thus the partial decryption architecture of inherently accommodates a multiplicity of encryption keying schemes depending on the preference of the game outcome generator design. Regardless of the embodiment employed the sensitive data is encrypted at the time the overall play script is created and remains encrypted until the actual game play is purchased. In other words only the cipher text associated with the purchased game play is decrypted at the time of play i.e. all other play fields in the game remain as cipher text in the stored game file. Therefore allowing all unsold game plays and optionally sold game plays to remain as cipher text in the game file.

A decrypted version of the sensitive game data of is illustrated in as . As illustrated in the decrypted data starting with the sub header provides all of the play and win lose parameters to the game module instructing it how to play out the game session and what prize if any to award.

In the specific example of game script of the decrypted sensitive data provides logistical information e.g. PricePoint 15 Version 1.0.0 Client EIT Type cash etc. as well as prize information i.e. type cash currency USID prize 00005 etc. and play indicia e.g. id 01 19

Another advantage of the partial encryption play scripts of is the clear text logistical header node enabling functionality in addition to game play. In one example an audit of the game file can be conducted without the auditor gaining access to the sensitive win lose information. In another example the clear text header node can be linked to another record file. One preferred example would be to link the clear text header node to the consumer s personalized record file at the time of purchase and prior to decryption. This linking would allow the Internet gaming system to irrevocably associate the game play to the individual that purchased the game play consequently the problem of ownership is completely resolved.

This auditable link of ownership of game play is significant since in the traditional brick and mortar lottery marketplace pay on demand ticket ownership has proven to be a vexing problem throughout decades and it is generally perceived and probably is true that stealing a play record over the Internet will be more difficult to detect than in the brick and mortar lottery world e.g. no physical signature on the back of the ticket . However with linking the clear text header file of a game play to the consumer s personalized record file ownership of a particular game play becomes tied to an individual with any winning proceeds credited to their account. Thereby digitally stealing a sold game play would be of no tangible value to the thief.

This not to imply that the only method of linking an individual to a particular game play is to link the clear text header to an individual s account. There are multiplicities of methods to achieve this same end such as adding the individual s account number to the clear text header after purchase and prior to decryption with some of these methods being more desirable under some circumstances. For example in an alternative embodiment the individual consumer identification account number may be appended to a separate database column as the game play script records on the game outcome generator of and not necessarily to the actual game record of .

In any embodiment scripts can originate in game programming and be transferred to the game outcome generator in the Internet gaming site . The scripts can be algorithmically linked to the validation code indicia printed on the tickets or vouchers or displayed on a mobile device as a virtual ticket or independent of any ticket or voucher. The significant point being the pre generation of scripts enables auditing by third parties or separate algorithms under the security and supervision of the lottery service provider s game programming department . One advantage is that the entire population of plays on the Internet gaming site can be logged and audited to confirm to a predefined prize structure e.g. . Additionally since in this embodiment the significant i.e. winning portions of game plays are controlled by the scripts developed by the lottery service provider s game programming department and the scripts are algorithmically linked to the validation codes e.g. of a reproducible audit trial of animated game play is available for any disputes between the customer and the lottery. In such disputes the customer may claim that at one time their computer or portable device displayed a higher winning amount than they were actually credited. However by simply accessing the script file associated with a given validation code a customer service representative can explain what the customer observed on their screen in a step by step format helping to resolve the complaint without the need for further action. On the rare occasion where the consumer claims legal action or threatens media coverage of their contested inequitable game play the associated script can then be presented as the only tangible evidence of what actually did take place helping to eliminate erroneous or bad faith arguments.

As illustrated in this auditability traceability of linking a script file algorithmically can be extended to the actual play experience. In the figure one of the games Diamond Mine of is illustrated with its enabling script code or validation number shown on the playing screen that was extracted from the validation number in the associated game script of . While this enabling script code validation number may be irrelevant to the consumer its presence aids audits.

If a consumer contacts a help center the center can request the consumer to recite or enter the number displayed on the screen i.e. thereby proving the link to a given script validation number and associated final outcome. If the consumer states that the screen is no longer displayed the help center can instruct the consumer to use the history portion of their browser or application to redisplay previous play screens. The redisplaying of screens can help the consumer to see previous plays and hopefully resolve any confusion. By always including the enabling script code or validation number the danger of the consumer accidentally confusing another game with the contested game are virtually eliminated e.g. the help center can request that the consumer read the enabling script code or validation number when the play screen is recalled from history.

In addition to honest disputes the enabling script code or validation number displayed on the play screen can also be utilized to resolve fraudulent attempts by the consumer to alter the play screen display e.g. with Photoshop or other means. Since the script code or validation number is linked to the game play script file that controls outcome via validation number any falsely altered screen would either carry the original script code or validation number from a game that would not agree with the erroneously altered screen. In the event the consumer in a fraudulent attempt altered the script code or validation number to some new value the altered number would almost certainly not match anything in the game outcome generator script .

To aid in a multiple screen audit the script code or validation number could also include a sub counter that increments with each scene or play advancement. Thus when the consumer recalled a certain screen the associated sub counter should have incremented appropriately. While for most purposes a fixed counting increment e.g. 1 2 3 . . . would suffice security could be further enhanced by having the sub counter increment in an algorithmic manner that is virtually impossible for a human to predict e.g. keyed hash chain based on previous screen script code or validation number and sub counter .

The audit history can be extended to the overall consumer s account thus providing the consumer with a history of game play. provides an example of one such embodiment. As in the balances of the closed loop wagering and winning accounts are illustrated separately under different pseudonyms i.e. Ticket Balance for and Prize Balance for that convey a more straightforward message to the consumer. However on the audit history screen there are rows designating the history of each game played by the consumer. In each row are summary information such as the time and date of when the game was purchased and played the cost of the game itself as well as whether or not any prizes were won .

In the previous embodiments the game scripts of provided predetermined outcomes with the associated audit trials linking the predetermined outcomes to an individual consumer. However this is not to imply that game scripts are limited to games with predetermined outcomes the same concept can be applied to games with outcomes determined by Random Number Generators RNGs or a combination of RNG and skill e.g. Poker or social games involving multiple players.

For example illustrates a user programming interface to create a RNG driven gaming script that would alternatively enable game screens and of . In this embodiment the same Pirate Match game and would behave in essentially the same manner as before however now the outcome and associated win lose status is undetermined at the time of purchase with a RNG resident in the game outcome generator of determining the outcome after the purchase is made in compliance with the game script instructions. Thus in this embodiment the game script establishes the dynamics of game play as well as the odds with the actual outcome being driven by the output of the RNG. In other words these RNG outcome game scripts have defined formats and structure including a definition of odds but the actual outcome is not embedded in the script. For the most part the consumer would not know the difference between games enabled by predetermined scripts or RNG enabled scripts e.g. the Pirate Match game screens and of play virtually identical with either embodiment however some game types e.g. skilled based like poker with multiple human players Keno etc. lend themselves to RNG enabled outcomes.

By providing RNG enabled scripts most of the advantages of the predetermined game scripts can be utilized in RNG based games. For example linking a given game script to an individual player at the time of sale can be implemented with RNG enabled scripts as readily as predetermined scripts. Additionally the specific output of the RNG determining the outcome or play of the game can also be linked to the script thereby creating a full audit trail of game play as well as the performance of the RNG itself as well as reducing the reliance on trusted or certified services e.g. Szrek2Solutions Trusted Draw and Trusted Play operating under patent U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 846 as the primary assurance of the fairness or randomness of the RNG. Furthermore RNG scripts readily enable altering the odds of a game s outcome via either internal i.e. contained within the script itself or external parameters. This varying of odds from one game play to the next can be employed to ensure that the overall payout remains within predefined e.g. legal limits in cases of payout drift due to either random events or player skill or other actions.

Returning to the programming interface of which is used to create RNG driven gaming scripts in this embodiment the interface includes a generic programming header thru providing the parameter settings used to specify any type of RNG Internet game that would be implemented. Specifically the Description column provides a human readable reference description of the game play style e.g. pick until no more for the Pirate Match game . The RNG Type column selects the type of RNG employed in the game from a multiplicity of predefined types e.g. without replacement for the Pirate Match game . The Minimum Outcomes column specifies the minimum number of outcomes for the game e.g. 10 for the Pirate Match game . The Collection column provides a check box to inform the script generator that the game is played by collecting indicia e.g. activated for the Pirate Match game . The Board Game column provides a check box to inform the script generator that the game is board based e.g. not activated for the Pirate Match game . The Sequential column provides a check box to inform the script generator that the game requires sequential play e.g. not activated for the Pirate Match game . The Cyclical column provides a check box to inform the script generator that the game features sequential play style e.g. not activated for the Pirate Match game . In addition to the previous generic RNG game script column headers thru the header row also includes a Test Output column with a clickable Test Project virtual button. As its name implies Test Output column allows the game script to be viewed and tested by a human before being deployed in an actual gaming environment.

Once the generic parameters thru have been configured a game specific matrix is generated with its own header allowing the human game designer to set critical indicia specific parameters for the game e.g. value weight automatic free play etc. being implemented. Each row within the game specific matrix allows for the game designer to specify the critical characteristics of a given indicia. For example row specifies the characteristics of a specific type i.e. 4in the order of indicia Goblet with a value of 100 while row specifies a crown indicia with a value of 20 both ultimately would appear on the Pirate Match game play screen of .

After the candidate RNG game script was configured and tested the programming interface would then facilitate automatic generation of a game script file similar to of . It should be noted that it may still be desirable for the sensitive data of the RNG game script to be stored as cipher text as in of even though a RNG generator ultimately determines the final outcome after the sale of the game e.g. on some games it may be desirable to vary the winning odds from play to play or force i.e. not selected by a RNG high tier winners for ease of audit etc. Whether the sensitive data is partially encrypted or not the produced RNG game script would still resemble the clear text version illustrated in of . The primary difference being the clear text version of the produced RNG game script would execute in conjunction with the RNG output to determine the outcome of a particular game play.

The advantages of using game programming interface to generate RNG based game scripts are numerous including allowing less technically inclined individuals to design and implement games including potential lottery customers forcing game descriptions into predefined structures thereby simplifying associated specifications and payout calculations easier audit trials etc.

Whether predetermined or RNG game scripts it may be desirable to modify the payouts or winning frequency of game scripts after they are loaded onto the game outcome generator of and available for purchase. For example skill or social based games wherein player activity influences the actual game payout in a substantial manner may cause the actual payout to deviate substantially from the Expected Value EV . However for security and auditability reasons the validation system typically prohibits modifying game play scripts or validation files after they are loaded on the game outcome generator . Thus to accommodate both the potential need to modify the payout frequency of win of games already loaded on the game outcome generator with security it may be desirable to embed one or more pointers in the game script to variables in another editable restructured database. These external variables could include numerical weighting factors which could impact multiple parameters e.g. allowing the win lose status of the RNG to remain unmodified yet have the weighting influence the payout only modifying the win lose status of a session etc. In any case since the pointers in the game script point to external database variables the original game script can remain unmodified and thereby easily verified. For both authentication and integrity reasons it may be desirable for the external database to be stored as cipher text. In this embodiment it also maybe desirable for the external database to be encrypted with a multiplicity of keys e.g. each game play script variable database is encrypted with a unique key stored in the cipher text portion of the game play script .

In addition to implementation of actual gaming on the Internet there are problems associated with the traditional lottery retailer brick and mortar base retailers realizing a reduction in sales due to the introduction of Internet gaming. Additionally while traditional lottery games have been successful over the years with prize funds i.e. percentage of money received paid out as prizes of typically 50 for draw games e.g. Pick 3 Pick 4 Powerball etc. and 65 for instant tickets there is substantial evidence that these relatively low prize funds will hamper sales when applied to Internet play. For example it is widely known that Nevada law mandates that the minimum average payout or prize fund for a casino slot machine can be no less than 80 yet most Las Vegas casinos have their slot machines set for average payouts between 90 to 95 . The reason for the 10 to 15 higher payout than required by law is due to the fact that casinos realize higher revenue from the higher payout because of massive increases in play volume. Thus in environments with a high frequency of play and visual feedback i.e. slot machines higher revenue for the casino is realized with higher payouts with the apparent optimum payout point for casino revenue ranging between 90 and 95 . While lotteries have enjoyed relatively high revenue in the past with their brick and mortar sales venues of draw games and instant tickets it can be argued that the increased frequency of play of Internet games i.e. seconds for some Internet games versus minutes or days for traditional lottery games will drive the Internet gaming systems to higher payouts. However most state laws dictate that the payout or prize fund must be set around 65 for Internet play. Therefore a potential Internet sales problem may arise after consumers realize the relatively meager prize funds associated with Internet games versus their casino counterparts.

Fortunately both traditional retailers concerns about losing sales to the Internet as well as a reduced prize fund can be helped by enhancing Internet gaming payouts. It should be understood that in this context enhancing Internet payouts does not mean increasing the prize fund as a percentage of sales rather in this context enhancing Internet payouts includes both adding abstract prizes as well as cumulative prize pools.

By offering coupons or closed loop gift cards from participating local or national retailers to Internet gaming prizes the prize fund has the perception of increasing in value while in reality the same percentage e.g. 65 of actual sales is still allocated to prizes. With retailer discounts awarded as prizes participating national and local retailers would award the predetermined discount award at the time of an appropriate purchase. The discounts can take the form of a percentage a fixed refund or some service provided at no extra charge e.g. 5 off of a purchase at a retail store 1 refunded off of two items at a restaurant free shipping at Amazon.com etc.

Marketing wise retailer discounts are desirable for all parties because retailers readily offer discounts to new customers with the increase in traffic at their establishments more than offsetting the cost of the discount. However while retailers applaud discounts to new customers the traditional problem has always been how to attract new customers without reducing profit margins from existing customers. For example advertising campaigns touting special deals or discounts typically cost the retailer a multiple of the actual discount itself e.g. advertising costs distribution costs etc. with there always being the possibility that only regular customers end up using the discount. Therefore so long as the retailer has a reasonable assurance that the discount brings in new business he or she will gladly offer a discount.

By offering discounts as prizes the Internet gaming system is uniquely positioned to provide assurance to retailers that their added traffic is truly additional business. Since only lottery consumers would receive the prize discounts the retailer can essentially market directly to the lottery s player base a group that he or she may see only a portion of while essentially only paying discounts for actual sales. At the same time the lottery benefits by creating an environment where its players can leverage discounts as part of game play benefits both the lottery and its players truly a winning proposition for all parties.

The physical embodiment of Internet gaming discounts could be in the form of a barcoded coupon received by the consumer at the end of the game. This coupon could be printed on paper and presented to the retailer or sent to the consumer s mobile device in the form of a visual barcode or other data that would interact with the retailer s Point Of Sale POS equipment. Alternatively the discount could be registered at a central site and associated with the consumer s account when the consumer presented the account at a participating retailer the central site system would coordinate the awarded discount to the retailer s POS equipment. Still another alternative would be for the Internet gaming sponsored GPR card assigned as part of the consumer s gaming account to be linked to the consumer s account number. Thus when the consumer visited the participating retailer establishment he or she would simply use their Internet lottery GPR card for the purchase and automatically receive a discount using the debit credit interchange.

In addition to discounts Internet games can be designed with a scavenger hunt type feature i.e. where the consumer is required to physically visit a specific location to garner a prize or elevate the game being played to the next level. Like coupons the scavenger hunt feature could be financed and thereby adding funds to the prize fund through participating retailers. Again retailers will pay a small fee to new customers in the form of a discount or other service especially if the retailer is confident the customers being paid for are new. With the scavenger hunt embodiment the retailer is using the Internet game to effectively channel Internet gaming consumers through the retailer s establishment.

Like the discounts embodiment the physical embodiment of Internet gaming scavenger hunt type feature could be in the form of a code or data the consumer records while visiting the retailer s establishment. For convince and to drive traffic directly to the POS equipment the code could be handed out as a preprinted or real time printed ticket upon request. Alternatively the consumer s mobile device could scan a barcode on display at the retailer s establishment or otherwise interact with the retailer s POS equipment. Another alternative embodiment would be when the consumer presented their Internet gaming account at a participating retailer the central site system would coordinate the action to the retailer s POS equipment. Yet another alternative would be for the Internet gaming sponsored GPR card assigned as part of the consumer s gaming account to be linked to the consumer s account number. Thus when the consumer visited the participating retailer establishment he or she would simply use their Internet lottery GPR card to authenticate completing the scavenger hunt task. In any case the scavenger hunt embodiment could be configured where the retailer only paid a fee for the consumer s that actually visited their establishment thereby increasing the value to the retailer of the endorsement.

In addition to brick and mortar retailer related coupons and scavenger hunts there remains the embodiment of increasing perceived payout value with deferred games that require an accumulation of credits or other mechanisms amassed by playing multiple Internet lottery games. Strictly speaking the deferred game embodiment does not actually increase the value of the prize fund rather deferred games increase the perceived value of the gaming experience by simultaneously extending the length of play and imparting the hope of a future winning experience even after losing a game.

For example shows a combined play screen for a Keno game with an integrated deferred game totalizer . This particular Keno play screen illustrates a losing game experience because the minimum number of Keno matches i.e. four as illustrated in pay table was not achieved. However the combined play screen also includes space for a deferred game totalizer . This deferred game totalizer provides the consumer with constant updates on how close he or she is to qualifying for a deferred game. Totalizer illustrates five different deferred games i.e. thru that the consumer has been acquiring credits for over the course of game play specifically a bonus present with an 100 chance of receiving after accumulating the required number of credits a Diamond Wheel spin offering a small chance of winning a large prize e.g. 1 000 a Ruby Wheel spin offering slightly better odds for a medium to large prize an Emerald Wheel spin offering better odds for a medium sized prize and a Sapphire Wheel spin with still better odds for low tier prizes. Thus the multiplicity of totalizer games that automatically accumulates through regular game play help to entice the consumer to continue even after a losing game experience such as Keno game .

In the totalizer example of the five different deferred games thru can accumulate credits at different rates with the cost of the prize fund to play the deferred game i.e. spin the wheel or pay the gift determining the rate of credit accumulation. For example the Diamond Wheel deferred game having a higher potential payout than the Sapphire Wheel would accumulate credits at a much slower rate. Alternatively all deferred game wheels could accumulate credits at equal rates with the odds of paying a prize varying from wheel to wheel. In any case the concept of having the deferred game totalizer visible to the consumer during regular game play functions as a reminder and enticement for continued play.

When a consumer has accumulated enough credits to play a deferred game they can actuate the desired game at any time by clicking on the associated indicia in the deferred game totalizer e.g. for the Emerald Wheel deferred game. Once actuated and assuming sufficient credits were amassed to enable play the play screen would change to the chosen deferred game. For illustration illustrates two possible deferred game screens an Emerald Wheel screen and a Diamond Wheel screen . While the play action of the two wheels and is identical i.e. a carnival type spinning wheel the value of the potential prizes offered differs. For example the Emerald Wheel features a top cash prize of only 20 with numerous additional point prizes e.g. as well as chances to spin higher tiered wheels e.g. the Ruby Wheel spin award and the Diamond Wheel spin award . In contrast the Diamond Wheel features a top prize of 1 000 along with mid tier cash prizes e.g. 50 and points awards.

Additionally with either the Emerald or Diamond Wheels the actual odds of winning a given prize can vary depending on the weighting of each prize assigned e.g. the 1 000 top prize in the Diamond Wheel may have odds far less than the one out of ten that the wheel imagery implies. This weighing can be adjusted to allow a higher frequency chance for the consumer to experience a high tier deferred game without significantly debiting the prize fund.

The deferred game embodiment can be implemented with either predetermined or RNG enabled deferred game scripts providing an embodiment that has all of the security and auditability advantages of gaming scripts as previously disclosed. This is not to imply that the deferred game embodiment can only be implemented with gaming scripts. In an alternative embodiment a simple RNG algorithm could be triggered allowing for any different weighting assigned to different prizes.

In either the game script or simple RNG algorithm embodiments the odds of winning or earning a chance at a deferred game can be fluid. In this embodiment the odds of winning all differed game prizes or a specific prize can be allowed to change dynamically to balance actualized game play payouts to the theoretical EV.

The deferred game wheel embodiments are only one possible embodiment of the deferred game concept. The wheel embodiment was mainly chosen for teaching purposes since the overall win lose concept is relatively straightforward. Indeed in practice the deferred game concept can be applied to practically any form of Internet game.

