---

title: Waste ink reclamation apparatus for liquid ink recirculation system
abstract: An ink reclamation receptacle receives ink purged from an inkjet printing apparatus. Ink in the reclamation receptacle wets a porous membrane positioned in the reclamation receptacle, and flows into a flow channel. Negative pressure applied to a port that is placed in fluid communication with the flow channel withdraws ink from the flow channel for use in the inkjet printing apparatus, while ink wetting the pores in the membrane resists a flow of air into the flow channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08651619&OS=08651619&RS=08651619
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08651619
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130319
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority to application Ser. No. 13 020 864 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 403 457 on Mar. 26 2013 is entitled Waste Ink Reclamation Apparatus For Liquid Ink Recirculation System was filed on Feb. 4 2011 and is assigned to the assignee of the present application.

This disclosure relates generally to systems that supply and recover fluid from a device and more particularly to an inkjet printer configured to supply liquid ink to an ink reservoir within an inkjet printing apparatus and recover liquid ink from a receptacle associated with the inkjet printing apparatus.

Fluid transport systems are well known and used in a number of applications. One specific application of transporting a fluid in a machine is the transportation of ink in a printer. Common examples of inks include aqueous inks and phase change or solid inks. Aqueous inks remain in a liquid form when stored prior to being used in imaging operations. Solid ink or phase change inks typically have a solid form either as pellets or as ink sticks of colored cyan yellow magenta and black ink that are inserted into feed channels in a printer through openings to the channels. After the ink sticks are fed into the printer they are urged by gravity or a mechanical actuator to a heater assembly of the printer. The heater assembly includes a heater and a melt plate. The heater which converts electrical energy into heat is positioned proximate the melt plate to heat the melt plate to a temperature that melts an ink stick coming into contact with the melt plate. The melt plate may be oriented to drip melted ink into a reservoir and the ink stored in the reservoir continues to be heated while awaiting subsequent use.

Each reservoir of colored liquid ink may be fluidly coupled to an inkjet printing apparatus. The liquid ink is pumped from the reservoir to a manifold in the inkjet printing apparatus. As the inkjet ejectors in the inkjet printing apparatus eject ink onto a receiving medium or imaging member the action of the diaphragms in the inkjet ejectors pull ink from the manifold. The inkjet ejectors may be piezoelectric devices that are selectively activated by a controller with a driving signal.

Conduits typically employed in transporting ink between a reservoir and one or more inkjet ejectors may be referred to as umbilicals . An umbilical may be used as a fluid coupling for transporting liquid ink between an ink supply reservoir and an inkjet printing apparatus. An umbilical may contain one or many separate channels for transporting fluids such as ink. Typical prior art umbilical assemblies include one or more conduits formed from a flexible material such as extruded silicone for example. During operation the channels in the umbilical are filled with ink so as to avoid inserting air bubbles into the inkjet printing apparatus. Air bubbles suspended in ink supplying the inkjet printing apparatus may cause ejector misfires during imaging operations.

During maintenance and cleaning operations ink within an inkjet printing apparatus may be purged through the inkjet ejectors. A receptacle or catch may be used to capture and hold the purged ink. The receptacle may be emptied after a purge operation by suctioning the ink out of the receptacle through another umbilical to which a negative pressure source has been applied. In prior art printers the purged ink is discarded after it is removed from the receptacle. The collection and transfer of the purged ink enables more efficient operation of an inkjet printer by allowing the reuse of ink that would otherwise be discarded as waste.

In one embodiment an ink reclamation receptacle has been developed. The ink reclamation receptacle includes a gutter having a front wall a back wall and a bottom wall that form a volume for ink collection a membrane positioned within the volume for ink collection to divide the volume for ink collection into a collection reservoir and a flow channel and a port. The membrane has pores of a predetermined size and a predetermined wettability. The port extends through the back wall to enable fluid communication with the flow channel through the port to enable ink in the volume for ink collection to wet the membrane in response to a portion of the membrane contacting the ink and to enable a negative pressure established at the port to draw ink from the volume for ink collection through the flow channel to the port.

In another embodiment an inkjet printing device has been developed. The inkjet printing device includes an inkjet printing apparatus having a plurality of inkjet ejectors the inkjet printing apparatus being configured to purge ink from the inkjet ejectors an ink reservoir configured to supply ink to the plurality of inkjet ejectors a gutter having a front wall a back wall and a bottom wall that form a volume for ink collection a membrane positioned within the volume for ink collection to divide the volume for ink collection into a collection reservoir and a flow channel and a port extending through the back wall to enable fluid communication with the flow channel through the port. The gutter is positioned proximate to the plurality of inkjet ejectors to receive ink purged through the plurality of inkjet ejectors. The membrane has a plurality of pores having a predetermined size that establishes a first pressure for ink flow through the membrane and a second pressure for air flow through the membrane when the membrane is wetted by ink. The second pressure has a magnitude that is greater than a magnitude of the first pressure.

In another embodiment an ink reclamation receptacle has been developed. The receptacle includes a gutter having a front wall a back wall and a bottom wall that form a volume for ink collection a dividing wall positioned within the volume for ink collection to divide the volume for ink collection into a collection reservoir and a flow channel the dividing wall having at least two openings and a plurality of membranes each membrane positioned across one opening in the at least two openings in the dividing wall a port extending through the back wall to enable fluid communication with the flow channel through the port. Each membrane has a plurality of pores having a predetermined size that establishes a first pressure for ink flow through each membrane and a second pressure for air flow through each membrane when each membrane is wetted by ink. The second pressure has a magnitude that is greater than a magnitude of the first pressure.

For a general understanding of the environment for the system and method disclosed herein as well as the details for the system and method reference is made to the drawings. In the drawings like reference numerals have been used throughout to designate like elements. As used herein the term wettability refers to a property of a solid material that enables a liquid such as liquid ink to spread across a surface of the material. The related term wetting refers to a process by which a liquid spreads across the surface of a material when the liquid contacts a portion of the material. In a porous material the wetting process fills pores in the material with liquid as the liquid spreads. After the liquid fills some or all of the pores in the material the material is called wetted. Wettable materials are those materials that enable a liquid to contact a portion of the surface of the material directly and spread across the remaining portion of the surface. A highly wettable material may be referred to as being hydrophilic when contacting aqueous liquids and lyophilic when contacting non aqueous liquids. The term meniscus strength refers to an attraction of a liquid such as ink to a material surrounding an opening in a material such as a pore in a membrane positioned across a path for the liquid. The meniscus strength holds the liquid in the pore until a higher magnitude pressure breaks the liquid attraction to the membrane material and pulls gas through the pore. Consequently a wetted membrane has pores filled with a liquid having a meniscus strength. The wetted pores enable liquids to be pulled through the pores of the membrane while preventing a gas from passing through the membrane when the pressure across the wetted pores remains below the pressure that breaks the meniscus.

The term conduit refers to a body having a passageway or lumen through it for the transport of a liquid or a gas. As used herein a purge refers to a maintenance procedure performed by an inkjet printing apparatus to forcibly expel ink from the inkjet ejectors. A purge may be performed by applying air pressure to the inkjet ejectors of the inkjet printing apparatus or by applying suction to the inkjet ejectors. A purge is typically used to remove air bubbles from conduits within the inkjet printing apparatus that form each time phase change ink is melted from solid to liquid. A purge may also be used to clear contaminants from inkjet ejectors. The term purged ink refers to ink expelled during a purge operation. The purged ink flows down the face of the inkjet printing apparatus instead of being ejected toward an image receiving surface.

Ink reclamation receptacle is positioned to collect ink expelled from inkjet printing apparatus during a purge operation and to return the ink for use in the printing apparatus . The ink reclamation receptacle includes a container with a volume for ink collection formed by a front wall bottom wall and back wall . The ink reclamation receptacle may further include a top member omitted for clarity that covers a portion of the volume for ink collection and an opening over the volume for ink collection that enables purged ink from the inkjet printing apparatus to flow into the volume for ink collection. The reader should understand that for all configurations sides complete the volume holding capability of the receptacle for example by forming or folding part of the bottom or back or by assembling separate pieces. In the embodiment of and the volume for ink collection in the ink reclamation receptacle is sufficient to hold all ink purged from inkjet printing apparatus during a single purge operation. Front wall extends beyond the front of the front face of inkjet apparatus to allow purged ink to flow down the printing apparatus in direction and enter the ink reclamation receptacle . A flow channel extends along the length of the back wall . A port extends through back wall . Port is in fluid communication with the flow channel . In the embodiment of port is positioned at the center of back wall equidistant from each end of ink reclamation receptacle . As described in more detail below a negative pressure applied through port may withdraw ink in ink receptacle through the port .

The example inkjet printing apparatus and ink reclamation receptacle depicted in and depict external views of one embodiment of an inkjet printing apparatus and ink reclamation receptacle. The following figures depict various embodiments of ink reclamation receptacles and combinations of ink reclamation receptacles with inkjet printing apparatuses in more detail.

A porous membrane extends through the ink reclamation receptacle dividing the volume for ink collection into a front portion seen here as collection reservoir and a rear portion seen here as flow channel . In one embodiment porous membrane is formed from a metallic sheet having a plurality of pores formed through the sheet that are arranged in a substantially two dimensional configuration. Porous membrane may also be formed from a porous polymer material. Collection reservoir holds purged ink . Purged ink may pass through porous membrane into flow channel as shown by arrow . The embodiment of depicts an optional filter layer positioned between the purged ink and the porous membrane . The filter layer is formed from a three dimensional matrix of a fibrous material such as felt although other filter materials be used. Filter layer is configured to stop particulate contaminants in the purged ink from passing through the layer and blocking pores in the porous membrane .

Purged ink wets both the filter layer and porous membrane . The materials and configuration of the filter layer and porous membrane are selected to promote wetting of the filter layer and porous membrane by ink in the collection reservoir . The wettable filter layer and porous membrane enable purged ink to wet the entire surface area of the porous membrane and filter layer in response to the purged ink contacting a portion of the surface of the filter layer and porous membrane . Thus the ink may wet the pores in membrane even in conditions where the ink would otherwise not contact the pores such as when ink levels are low or when ink reclamation receptacle tilts at an angle.

In the example of porous membrane and filter layer are shown with a substantially vertical orientation. As used herein a vertical orientation means that the porous membrane and filter layer are oriented to be approximately parallel to the back wall in ink reclamation receptacle . More generally a vertical orientation describes an orientation that is generally more parallel than perpendicular to the back wall. An orientation at approximately a 45 angle to either or both of the bottom wall and the back wall may be described as vertical. The membrane and filter are depicted as being flat but other shapes are possible such as a curved shape that increases exposed surface area.

The ink reclamation receptacle may tilt in a variety of angles during operation. In ink in the collection reservoir contacts the filter layer and porous membrane . When ink wets the pores in the porous membrane surface tension between the ink and the porous membrane forms a meniscus in each pore that resists a flow of air and ink through the wetted pores. The predetermined sizes of pores formed through the membrane enable pressure applied at a first magnitude to draw ink through membrane in direction . Pressure applied at a second larger magnitude draws air through membrane . The meniscus strength of ink wetting the pores of membrane resists air passing through membrane more than ink establishing a magnitude of pressure required to draw air through membrane that is greater than the magnitude of pressure required to draw ink through the membrane. In the example of membrane includes pores that are approximately 10 m in diameter although alternative membranes may have pores of larger or smaller diameters. Some exemplary embodiments may include pores ranging from 1 m to 100 m in diameter. The selected pore size establishes a magnitude of negative pressure for withdrawing ink of approximately 0.1 psi while the magnitude of negative pressure required to withdraw air through the ink meniscuses of the wetted pores is approximately 0.5 psi although various different inks and pore sizes may result in different meniscus strengths.

In operation ink drawn through membrane in direction enters flow channel . Port is in fluid communication with flow channel and negative pressure may be applied through port and through a conduit not shown to reclaim ink from the ink reclamation receptacle through port . As described above a first magnitude of negative pressure is sufficient to withdraw ink in direction through filter layer and porous membrane while also resisting air from flowing through membrane . This pressure level prevents air bubbles from forming in reclaimed ink passing through the flow channel and port . One example of a pumping apparatus configured to apply the appropriate amount of pressure is a gear pump including a bypass flow limiter described in further detail in co pending application Ser. No. 12 847 829 entitled LIQUID INK DELIVERY SYSTEM INCLUDING A FLOW RESTRICTOR THAT RESISTS AIR BUBBLE FORMATION IN A LIQUID INK RESERVOIR which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 348 406 on Jan. 8 2013 and has a common assignee to the present application. Various other sources of negative pressure including peristaltic and reciprocating pumps may also supply an appropriate amount of negative pressure to reclaim ink that is substantially free of air bubbles drawn through membrane . One or more inkjet printing apparatuses in fluid communication with the ink reclamation receptacle may use the reclaimed ink.

An alternative configuration of an ink reclamation receptacle is shown in . Ink reclamation receptacle includes a front wall bottom wall back wall porous membrane filter layer and port . Porous membrane separates the volume for ink collection into an upper portion seen here as collection reservoir and a lower portion seen here as flow channel . As with the embodiment of ink in the collection reservoir wets the pores in membrane and a sufficient negative pressure may draw ink from the collection reservoir to the flow channel in direction . In the embodiment of membrane is positioned in a horizontal orientation and filter layer is positioned in the horizontal orientation to prevent contaminants in the ink from blocking pores in the membrane . As used herein a horizontal orientation for the porous membrane means that the porous membrane is oriented to be approximately parallel to the bottom wall in ink reclamation receptacle . More generally a horizontal orientation describes an orientation that is generally more parallel than perpendicular to the bottom. An orientation at approximately a 45 angle to either or both of the bottom wall and back wall may be described as horizontal. The porous membrane may occupy various other orientations in the ink reclamation receptacle that permit ink to wet the porous membrane and allow ink to pass through the porous membrane under negative pressure while air is prevented from passing through the porous membrane.

The surface tension of ink draws the ink across the surface of membrane and filter layer and wets the pores formed in membrane . Ink may wet the entire surface of membrane even in conditions where the ink would not otherwise contact the entire surface of membrane such as when ink reclamation receptacle tilts at an angle. Similarly to the meniscus strength of ink wetting the pores of membrane resists air passing through membrane more than ink passing through membrane . Air that passes through the membrane forms air bubbles in the reclaimed ink. Therefore an appropriate level of negative pressure applied through port reclaims ink through flow channel while preventing air bubbles from forming in the reclaimed ink.

The ink reclamation receptacle includes a front wall bottom wall back wall porous membrane filter layer and ink port . The front wall bottom wall porous membrane and filter layer form an ink collection reservoir that holds purged ink . The back wall porous membrane filter layer form a flow channel that is fluidly coupled to the ink port . The ink reclamation receptacle occupies a position that is proximate to the inkjet printing apparatus . Front wall extends past the plurality of inkjet ejectors to enable ink purged from the ink reservoir to flow into the ink collection reservoir .

In response to negative pressure applied through port purged ink passes through the filter layer and porous membrane in direction into flow channel . The reclaimed ink then flows through port to an external ink supply used to supply ink to reservoir through ink port . As described above surface tension of the purged ink wets the filter layer and porous membrane even when the level of purged ink does not cover the entire surface of the filter layer and porous membrane . Negative pressure applied through port may reclaim purged ink even when the purged ink only partially fills the collection reservoir or when the purged ink is unevenly distributed such as when the ink reclamation receptacle is tilted at an angle during operation.

In operation negative pressure applied through air vent forms a partial vacuum in ink reservoir . A check valve not shown may temporarily close ink port while the negative pressure is applied to assist in forming the partial vacuum in the ink reservoir . In an alternative configuration the negative pressure may be applied through the ink port and a solenoid not shown may seal the air vent to form the partial vacuum in the ink reservoir . The partial vacuum urges ball out of the closed position and applies negative pressure to flow channel through the fluid path . Purged ink held in collection reservoir flows in direction through filter layer membrane flow channel fluid path and one way valve . Reclaimed ink subsequently enters the ink reservoir where the ink is available for printing through inkjet ejectors . One way valve closes in the absence of negative pressure resisting a flow of ink from the ink reservoir into the ink reclamation receptacle . The magnitude of negative pressure applied air vent is sufficient to open one way valve and to pump ink from the ink reclamation receptacle into the reservoir while also being small enough to prevent air from passing through membrane with the reclaimed ink.

Ink held in ink collection reservoir wets both of porous membranes A and B allowing negative pressure applied through port to reclaim ink held in the ink reclamation receptacle . After the porous membranes A and B are wetted ink may pool in contact with one or the other membrane in situations where the ink reclamation receptacle tilts at an angle. The pooled ink is reclaimed through one of membranes A and B positioned at either end of dividing wall . Various modifications of ink reclamation receptacle may include additional openings with porous membranes and may position membranes at various locations along the dividing wall. The dividing wall may be oriented vertically horizontally or at any other angle that allows reclamation of ink held in the ink collection receptacle through port . Other ink receptacle embodiments may include two or more porous membranes including the exemplary embodiments shown in . and .

The baffle members A D between the ink collection reservoirs A E restrict the flow of ink in a lateral direction through the ink reclamation receptacle . When the ink reclamation receptacle tilts at an angle ink may flow toward one end of the ink reclamation receptacle . The baffle members A D limit the distance that ink may flow laterally. While depicts four baffle members A D alternative configurations may use a lower or higher number of baffle members arranged in different positions to form separate ink collection reservoirs. The baffle members may also be combined with other ink reclamation receptacle embodiments including the exemplary embodiments shown in . and .

It will be appreciated that variants of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems applications or methods. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

