---

title: MVDDS asymmetric dynamic routing
abstract: A method for dynamic routing is provided. Status information of a multichannel video and data distribution service (MVDDS) channel from customer premises equipment (CPE) is received. The status information is evaluated to determine if data destined for the CPE over the MVDDS channel should be routed over a secondary channel. Data destined for the CPE is route over the secondary channel when the data is determined to be routed over the secondary channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887205&OS=08887205&RS=08887205
owner: CSC Holdings, LLC
number: 08887205
owner_city: Bethpage
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Some data service providers have recently begun exploring a variety of delivery mechanisms to provide data to their customers. In particular these data service providers have been exploring wireless delivery mechanisms. For example some wireless delivery mechanisms include 3G WiMAX and WiFi. However these mechanisms suffer from a number of similar drawbacks such as limited range limited spectrum and limited speeds. One particular wireless delivery mechanism is Multichannel Video and Data Distribution service MVDDS . MVDDS is a type of wireless delivery service that has recently been explored by a variety of service providers. MVDDS provides for a faster downlink service than conventional wireless services. However MVDDS only provides a downlink service and must be used in conjunction with a different uplink service such as WiMAX LTE DSL or 3G.

The present embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers may indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those skilled in the art with access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope of the invention and additional fields in which the invention would be of significant utility.

System includes a service provider and customer premises equipment CPE . CPE may be any type of device that may communicate with service provider . CPE may be a modem router switch or any other device for connecting with service provider . In an exemplary embodiment CPE may be configured to communicate with service provider asymmetrically. For example CPE may be able to receive communications over one channel and send receive communications on another channel. In particular service provider may send downstream data over MVDDS channel . MVDDS channel may be a channel for sending unidirectional traffic at a high throughput. For example MVDDS channel may be used to send television signals or Internet traffic to CPE . CPE may use a secondary channel to communicate data to service provider . In an exemplary embodiment secondary channel may be a bidirectional communication channel for communicating data to and or from service provider . However while secondary channel may be bidirectional secondary channel may also have certain characteristics that would cause service provider to prefer sending data over MVDDS channel than secondary channel . For example secondary channel may have characteristics such as slower throughput or higher data costs. In an exemplary embodiment secondary channel may be any type of communications channel including but not limited to WiMAX 3G LTE DSL or WiFi.

As with any communication medium MVDDS channel may become unavailable at certain times due to a variety of conditions. For example service provider may lose contact with CPE over MVDDS channel due to equipment problems errors outages atmospheric conditions or other conditions causing a communications failure. Likewise at other times while CPE may not lose communication with service provider over MVDDS channel service may become degraded such as experiencing slow throughput or poor signal reception. However since MVDDS channel is unidirectional service provider may not be able to determine that CPE has lost communication or service has become degraded with service provider over MVDDS channel . Thus system includes a dynamic router for dynamically routing communications between MVDDS channel and secondary channel when the communications have become degraded or lost entirely.

Dynamic router is connected to customer premises equipment CPE over MVDDS channel and secondary channel . MVDDS channel may be configured for unidirectional communication while secondary channel may be configured for bidirectional communication. While depicts a single CPE a person of skill in the art would know that dynamic router may be connected to a plurality of CPEs. Dynamic router is also connected to network . Network may be any type of communications network including but not limited to a Local Area Network LAN Wide area Network WAN or the Internet. Dynamic router may be configured to route communications from network to CPE and visa versa. Dynamic router may be implemented on any type of computing device including but not limited to a personal computer server workstation desktop laptop mobile device router specialized hardware or any combination thereof.

In some cases a service provider may prefer to send communications to CPE over MVDDS channel because of its high throughput and other desirable qualities. However in some cases MVDDS channel may become degraded or unusable due to various environmental factors or other errors. Dynamic router may be configured to detect such conditions and dynamically route data over either MVDDS channel or secondary channel based on these conditions. Typically routers may make decisions as to whether to route data over a particular communication channel based upon link state. However link state is limited to whether the communication channel is functioning or not functioning. Dynamic router is configured to make routing decisions based upon additional factors besides link state such as signal strength. However because MVDDS channel is configured to be unidirectional dynamic router may not be able to sufficiently determine when MVDDS channel has become degraded or unusable.

In an exemplary embodiment dynamic router also includes router . However router may also be located external to dynamic router . Router may be implemented using hardware or may also be implemented in software. For example router may be implemented using off the shelf router hardware or software. Router is configured to determine how to send data to and from network to CPE . More particularly router may be configured to route communications over MVDDS channel and secondary channel . Router is configured to route these communications based on configuration data accessible to router . For example router may be configured with routing data. The routing data specifies how and under what circumstances data is routed over MVDDS channel or secondary channel . The routing data may either be stored within router or accessible to router by being stored on remotely accessible storage such as an external database. The routing data may also be able to be modified in real time either remotely from router in the case where router is external to dynamic router or locally to router in cases where router is included within dynamic router .

Dynamic router also includes heartbeater and evaluator . Heartbeater may be configured to retrieve current status information from CPE periodically. For example at various predetermined intervals heartbeater may query CPE for such information. However according to an exemplary embodiment CPE may instead be configured to send status information to heartbeater at various predetermined intervals or upon certain events without being queried. For example if CPE detects that MVDDS channel or secondary channel has become unusable or degraded CPE may send status information to heartbeater . Note If secondary channel becomes unusable CPE cannot send status information to heartbeater . However we could include a tertiary channel that would enable this. This channel again could be 3G WiMax LTE WiFi etc. The status information may relate to either MVDDS channel or secondary channel and may include not only link state but also other characteristics about MVDDS channel and secondary channel including but not limited to signal strength and throughput. In an exemplary embodiment heartbeater may query CPE using simple network management protocol SNMP to receive the status information. For example using SNMP heartbeater may be able to retrieve the signal strength link state or current throughput of MVDDS channel . However a person of ordinary skill in the art would know there may be other methods to retrieve status information from CPE . For example CPE may have a defined Application Programming Interface for retrieving such information.

There are several ways that heartbeater may communicate with CPE . In exemplary embodiment heartbeater may query CPE over MVDDS channel and receive a response via secondary channel . However according to an embodiment heartbeater may also be configured to send receive responses over secondary channel only. In an exemplary embodiment heartbeater may also be configured with a timeout for receiving status information from CPE . For example if heartbeater does not receive any information in response to its query to CPE after a predetermined time heartbeater may determine that MVDDS channel is either degraded or unusable.

In an exemplary embodiment dynamic router is configured to modify the routes in router in real time. More particularly dynamic router includes evaluator . Evaluator is configured to determine based on the status information received from heartbeater whether communications should be routed over MVDDS channel or secondary channel . Evaluator may make such determinations based on the status information received from CPE . For example if the signal strength of the MVDDS channel at CPE is below a certain threshold or if the MVDDS channel link is down to CPE evaluator may make a determination that all communications both downstream and upstream should be routed over secondary channel . Evaluator may also make routing decisions based on other factors such as the amount of traffic on secondary channel or real time bandwidth costs. For example if the throughput of MVDDS channel is saturated evaluator may determine that subsequent communications should be routed over secondary channel until the saturation ceases. Once evaluator has determined that routes should be changed then evaluator may be configured to adjust the routes in router . In an exemplary embodiment router may include an Application Programming Interface API which allows for such adjustments. Alternatively router may have other mechanisms that allow for such adjustments for example remotely or locally accessible shells web interfaces databases or routing files.

In an exemplary embodiment heartbeater may be connected to a database . Database may be stored either within dynamic router or on another device in communication with dynamic router . Database may be any type of database such as an SQL database a plain text file XML file or any other set of data structures that may store and relate information. Database may store information related to all or a portion of CPEs connected to a service provider. In some situations if a service provider is connected to a large number of CPEs the service provider may employ multiple heartbeaters or multiple dynamic routers. In such cases database may only store a subset of CPEs in order to lessen the load placed on any one particular dynamic router or heartbeater. Database stores identification information regarding CPEs that instructs heartbeater how to communicate with a particular CPE such as CPE . For example database may store an IP address or other information which identifies how to contact CPE e.g. using a particular IP address . In addition database may store make model information regarding CPE which may aid in determining the optimal method for retrieving status information from CPE e.g. SNMP or another method . Accordingly dynamic router may be able to retrieve status information from a wide variety of make models of CPEs. Using database heartbeater may determine which CPEs to contact and how to contact them. After the status information has been retrieved heartbeater may also be configured to record the status information in database related to each respective CPE stored therein. The status information for example status information associated with CPE may then be retrieved later by querying database for CPE .

In an exemplary embodiment router may also be configured to determine routing information in real time by querying database . In such a case database may be optimized for fast querying and stored on a storage medium that has fast read times such as random access memory cache or flash memory. More particularly when data reaches router intended for CPE the data may be routed over MVDDS channel or secondary channel . Router may query database to determine how to route the data. For example router may use evaluator to determine the proper route by querying database for the status information associated with CPE . Alternatively evaluator may be configured to store the determination in database after the status information has been retrieved. For example after heartbeater receives the status information evaluator may make a routing decision and store the decision in database associated with CPE . When router receives the data to be routed to CPE router may query database for CPE retrieve the routing determination and route over the proper channel based on the determination retrieved from database .

At block of method status information indicating signal strength of a multichannel video and data distribution service MVDDS channel is received from customer premises equipment CPE . The status information may also indicate other information for example quality of service service flow throughput or any other information for which routing decisions could be made according to an exemplary embodiment. In an exemplary embodiment status information may also be received regarding a secondary channel. The CPE may be a modem router switch or other device for connecting with a service provider. In an exemplary embodiment the CPE may be able to receive communications over one channel and send receive communications on a secondary channel. For example the service provider may send all downstream communications over an MVDDS channel. The secondary channel may be used for upstream communications i.e. communications from the CPE . In an exemplary embodiment the secondary channel is a bidirectional communication capable of communicating data to from the service provider. However the secondary channel may also have certain characteristics that would cause service provider to prefer sending data over MVDDS channel than the secondary channel. While the service provider may prefer to send data downstream over MVDDS channel under some circumstances MVDDS channel may become degraded or unusable.

In order to determine the health of the MVDDS channel or secondary channel status information may be retrieved from the CPE about the signal strength of each respective channel. The status information may be received by a heartbeater such as heartbeater of . The status information may be retrieved from the CPE periodically. However according to an exemplary embodiment the CPE may be configured to send status information at various predetermined intervals or upon certain events. For example if the CPE detects that the MVDDS channel or the secondary channel has become unusable or degraded the CPE may send status information. The status information may include not only link state but also other characteristics about the MVDDS channel and the secondary channel including but not limited to signal strength and throughput. In an exemplarily embodiment the CPE may be queried using simple network management protocol SNMP to receive the status information. However a person of ordinary skill in the art would know there may be other methods to retrieve status information from the CPE.

There are several ways the status information may be communicated from the CPE. In exemplary embodiment the CPE may be queried over the MVDDS channel and response may be sent from the CPE over the secondary channel. However according to an exemplary embodiment the query and response may also be sent entirely over the secondary channel. A timeout may also be configured for receiving status information from the CPE. If the timeout occurs it may be assumed the MVDDS channel is degraded or unusable.

At block the status information is evaluated to determine if the signal strength of the MVDDS channel is below a threshold. The status information may be evaluated by an evaluator such as evaluator of . The status information received may include an indication of the signal strength of the MVDDS channel or the secondary channel. The signal strength may be indicated in decibels or any other suitable indicator of strength. In an exemplary embodiment the status information may also include link state and or throughput information. This additional information may also be evaluated when making routing decisions. As discussed previously due to certain environmental or other conditions MVDDS channel may become unusable unstable or degraded. In such cases a service provider may desire to route all communications over secondary channel while MVDDS channel is degraded or unusable.

At block the data destined for the CPE is routed using a router over the secondary channel when the signal strength of the MVDDS channel is below the threshold. More particularly downstream communications may have previously been routed over MVDDS channel but if MVDDS channel s signal strength is below a threshold they may be instead routed over the secondary channel. This may be accomplished by adjusting routing data in a router. The router may be implemented using hardware or may also be implemented in software. For example the router may be implemented using off the shelf router hardware or software. The router is configured to determine how to communicate data between the service provider and CPE and over which channel. More particularly the router may be configured to route communications over the MVDDS channel and the secondary channel. The router is configured to route these communications based on configuration data accessible to the router. For example the router may be configured with routing data. The routing data specifies how and under what circumstances data is routed over the MVDDS channel or the secondary channel. The routing data may be either stored inside of the router or accessible to the router via an external storage device or database.

In an exemplary embodiment the routing data accessible to the router may be modified in real time. More particularly the routing data may be modified based on the status information received from the CPE. For example if the signal strength of MVDDS channel is below a threshold the routing data may be adjusted to route subsequent downstream communications over the secondary channel instead of the MVDDS channel. The routing data may be adjusted based on other factors for example the amount of traffic on secondary channel or real time bandwidth costs. If the throughput of the MVDDS channel is saturated the routing data may be adjusted such that subsequent communications are routed over secondary channel.

The routing data may be adjusted in a number of ways. For example the router may include an Application Programming Interface API which allows for such adjustments. Alternatively the router may have other mechanisms that allow for such adjustments for example remotely or locally accessible shells web interfaces databases or routing files.

In an exemplary embodiment a database may store information related to all or a portion of CPEs connected to a service provider. The database stores identification information regarding CPEs that may be used to determined how to communicate with a particular CPE. For example the database may store an IP address or other information which identifies how to contact a CPE e.g. using a particular IP address . In addition the database may store make model information regarding a CPE which may aid in determining the optimal method for retrieving status information from the CPE e.g. SNMP or another method . Using the database CPEs may be identified and contacted to retrieve status information. After the status information has been retrieved from a particular CPE the status information may be recorded in the database and associated with that particular CPE. The status information may then be retrieved later by querying the database for the particular CPE.

In an exemplary embodiment the router may be configured to determine routing data in real time by querying the database. More particularly when data reaches the router intended for a particular CPE the data may be routed over the MVDDS channel or secondary channel based on the information stored in the database for that particular CPE. For example the router may determine the proper route by querying a database for the status information associated with the particular CPE. If for example the status information has a signal strength below a particular threshold then the router may adjust the routing data to route communications over the secondary channel. Alternatively the determination of how to route communications may be stored in the database after the status information has been retrieved.

One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be practiced with various computer system configurations including multi core multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers computers linked or clustered with distributed functions as well as pervasive or miniature computers that may be embedded into virtually any device.

For instance a computing device having at least one processor device and a physical memory may be used to implement the above described embodiments. A processor device may be a single processor a plurality of processors or combinations thereof. Processor devices may have one or more processor cores. 

As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art processor device may also be a single processor in a multi core multiprocessor system such system operating alone or in a cluster of computing devices operating in a cluster or server farm. Processor device is connected to a communication infrastructure for example a bus message queue network or multi core message passing scheme.

Various embodiments of the invention are described in terms of this example computer system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement embodiments using other computer systems and or computer architectures. Although operations may be described as a sequential process some of the operations may in fact be performed in parallel concurrently and or in a distributed environment and with program code stored locally or remotely for access by single or multi processor machines. In addition in some embodiments the order of operations may be rearranged without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter.

Computer system also includes a main memory for example random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and removable storage drive . Removable storage drive may include a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit may include a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art removable storage unit includes a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar storage means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such storage means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system optionally includes a display interface which can include input and output devices such as keyboards mice etc. that forwards graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on display unit .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface may be in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals may be provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics coaxial cable hybrid fiber coaxial a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link or other communications channels.

In this document the term computer readable storage medium is used to generally refer to media such as removable storage unit removable storage unit and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . Computer readable storage medium may also refer to memories such as main memory and secondary memory which may be memory semiconductors e.g. DRAMs etc. .

Some embodiments may be directed to computer products comprising software stored on any computer readable storage medium. Such software when executed in one or more data processing devices causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein.

Certain embodiments may be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. Some embodiments may be implemented via a set of programs running in parallel on multiple machines.

The summary and abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described embodiments.

