---

title: Apparatus for inserting objects into a filter component of a smoking article
abstract: An apparatus and associated method is provided for forming a rod for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements. A continuous supply of a filter material is formed into a continuous filter rod by a rod-forming unit. An object insertion unit is configured to insert a plurality of first objects and a plurality of second objects into the continuous filter rod. A rod-dividing unit is configured to subdivide the continuous filter rod, at predetermined intervals along the longitudinal axis thereof, into a plurality of filter rod portions such that each filter rod portion includes at least one first object and at least one second object disposed therein, with the first objects being different from the second objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09486010&OS=09486010&RS=09486010
owner: R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
number: 09486010
owner_city: Winston Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131003
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 570 822 filed Aug. 9 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 407 260 filed Mar. 19 2009 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods for manufacturing filter rods and smoking articles incorporating such filter rods and more particularly to apparatuses and methods for inserting different objects into a filter element of a smoking article such as a cigarette.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 979 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose the placement of a flavor containing pellet in a cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al.

Cigarettes having adjustable filter elements that allow smokers to select the level of flavor that is available for transfer into mainstream smoke have been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 848 375 to Patron et al. Some proposed cigarettes may be manipulated reportedly for the purpose of providing components of their filter elements with the propensity to modify the nature or character of mainstream smoke. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 297 038 to Homburger U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 557 to Karalus U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 242 to Boukar U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 558 to Seyburn U.S. Pat. No. 3 513 859 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 665 to Kindgard U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 128 to Cohen and U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 141 to Grossman.

Some proposed cigarettes have a hollow object positioned in their filter element and the contents of that object is reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the object in the attempt to alter the nature or character of the mainstream smoke passing through the filter element. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 558 to Waterbury U.S. Pat. No. 3 366 121 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 390 686 to Irby Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 428 049 to Leake U.S. Pat. No. 3 547 130 to Harlow et al U.S. Pat. No. 3 575 1809 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 602 231 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 625 228 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 635 226 to Horsewell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 991 773 to Walker U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al 2007 0095357 to Besso et al. 2007 0012327 to Karles et al. 2006 0174901 to Karles et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. and 2006 0112964 to Jupe et al. and PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim and WO 2007 060543 to Besso et al. Some proposed cigarettes may also have a capsule positioned in the filter element and the contents of that capsule reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the capsule in order to deodorize the filter element after the cigarette is extinguished. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 631 722 to MacAdam et al.

Commercially marketed Rivage brand cigarettes have included a filter possessing a cylindrical plastic container containing water or a liquid flavor solution. Cigarettes representative of the Rivage brand cigarettes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 865 056 to Tamaoki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 981 to Tamaoki et al. both of which are assigned to Japan Tobacco Inc. The cylindrical casing within the filter reportedly may be deformed upon the application of external force and a thin wall portion of the casing is consequently broken so as to permit release of the liquid within the casing into an adjacent portion of that filter.

A cigarette holder has been available under the brand name Aquafilter. Cigarette holders representative of the Aquafilter brand product are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 797 644 to Shaw U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 387 to Goldstein and U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 153 to Kaye assigned to Aquafilter Corporation. Those patents propose a disposable cigarette holder into which the mouth end of a cigarette is inserted. Smoke from the cigarette that is drawn through the holder reportedly passes through filter material impregnated with water. A disposable filter adapted to be attachable to the mouth end of a cigarette has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. A flavor containing capsule contained within the disposable filter reportedly may be squeezed in order to release the flavor within the capsule.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of providing in some instances selectively a variety of different flavors depending upon the smoker s immediate desire. The flavor of such a cigarette might be selected based on the smoker s desire for a particular flavor at that time or a desire to change flavors during the smoking experience. For example changing flavors during the smoking experience may enable a smoker to end the cigarette with a breath freshening flavor such as menthol or spearmint. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of providing distinctive and different pleasurable sensory experiences for a smoker.

Some smokers might also desire a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent upon completion of a smoking experience. Such agents may be used to ensure that the remaining portion of a smoked cigarette yields a pleasant aroma after the smoker has finished smoking that cigarette. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent as desired by the smoker.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of moistening cooling or otherwise modifying the nature or character of the mainstream smoke generated by that cigarette. Because certain agents that can be used to interact with smoke are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate over time the effects of those agents upon the behavior of those cigarettes may require introduction of those agents near commencement of the smoking experience. Accordingly it may be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of moistening smoothing or cooling the smoke delivered to a smoker for that smoker.

It may also be desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance a sensory aspect of his her smoking experience and or the extent or magnitude of that sensory experience such as can be accomplished by allowing the smoker to purposefully select a cigarette having certain characteristics or behaviors and in some instances by allowing the smoker to determine the magnitude or extent of such characteristics or behaviors that the cigarette exhibits and or the source thereof. That is it may be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing components that can be employed so as to allow the smoker to select a cigarette based on an indicated character or nature and in some instances allow the smoker to control whether selectively or not the nature or character of the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette and the source from which it is obtained. In particular it may be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of enhancing the sensory attributes and the extent or magnitude of such attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring that smoke . More particularly it may be desirable to facilitate the manufacture of such cigarettes incorporating such flavor agents and sources and the like in a rapid highly automated fashion. It also may be desirable to provide an improved manner of incorporating discrete smoke altering solid objects such as flavor pellets flavor capsules adsorbent absorbent particles and or various combinations thereof into cigarette filters in a rapid highly automated fashion.

In light of the above desirable attributes it may also be desirable to provide a smoker with one or more visual cues of the sensory enhancements i.e. characteristic behavior the magnitudes thereof and or combinations thereof present in a particular cigarette so as to be for example informative to the smoker in selecting a cigarette or instructive to the smoker as to accessing the available sensory enhancements.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and process for providing filter rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles wherein each rod has one or more first objects e.g. rupturable capsules pellets and one or more second objects e.g. rupturable capsules pellets disposed along its length such that when the rod is subdivided into rod portions each rod portion includes at least one first object and at least one second object. In particular aspects the first objects are different from the second objects. Embodiments of the apparatus incorporate equipment for supplying a continuous supply of filter material to form a continuous filter rod e.g. a filter tow processing unit adapted to supply filter tow to a continuous rod forming unit . A representative apparatus may also at least partially incorporate for example a rotating wheel arrangement such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2008 0302373 A1 to Stokes et al. each incorporated herein by reference . In some aspects the first and second objects are supplied in a particular order into the filter material forming the continuous filter rod. A representative apparatus also includes a first and second rotatable feeder device for respectively delivering first and second objects to a rotating wheel insertion arrangement for insertion of the first and second objects into the filter material forming the continuous filter rod.

As a result the filter material is formed into a continuous filter rod having the first and second objects positioned within that rod and along the longitudinal axis thereof. The continuous filter rod then is subdivided at predetermined axial intervals so as to form a plurality of filter rods or filter rod portions such that each filter rod portion defines a plurality of cigarette filter elements each having at least one first object and at least one second object therein. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are particularly configured to provide the first and second objects and place the same within the filter material forming the continuous filter rod with the first and second objects being appropriately proximal to each other such that a desired combination of at least one first object and at least one second object per filter rod portion may be obtained when the continuous filter rod is subdivided.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Cigarette rods are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 210 486 to Hartmann U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 471 to Fitzgerald et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 275 548 to Hancock et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 281 540 to Barnes et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Filtered cigarettes incorporating filter elements provided from filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be manufactured using traditional types of cigarette making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 296 578 to Read Jr. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 434 585 to Holmes each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

Cigarette filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods types of tipping materials and levels of air dilution can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics which are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker and U.S. Pat. No. 7 237 559 to Ashcraft et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. 2006 0272655 to Thomas et al. and 2007 0246055 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Filter rods can be manufactured pursuant to embodiments of the present invention using a rod making apparatus and an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit. Representative rod forming units are available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and as Polaris ITM Filter Maker from International Tobacco Machinery. Filter material such as cellulose acetate filamentary tow typically is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit. For example filter tow can be bloomed using bussel jet methodologies or threaded roll methodologies. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem NC. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. and as CandorlTM Tow Processor from International Tobacco Machinery. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art can be employed. Other types of filter materials such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web can be provided using the types of materials equipment and techniques set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al.

Representative types of filter rods incorporating objects and representative types of cigarettes possessing filter elements incorporating objects such as flavor containing capsules or pellets can possess the types of components format and configuration and can be manufactured using the types of techniques and equipment set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0029118 A1 to Nelson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One preferred filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al.

Filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit such as a commercially available E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may similarly be used. Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials for construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

The continuous length of filter material is pulled through a block by the action of the rod forming unit and directed into a gathering region thereof to form a cylindrical composite. The gathering region can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable type of gathering mechanism. The tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of the cylindrical composite from block into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending strands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed. The filter material which has been compressed into the cylindrical composite is continuously received into the rod forming unit to form the continuous filter rod . In conjunction with the formation of the continuous filter rod the first and second objects may be inserted along the length of and within the web of filter material as that filter material is being formed into the continuous filter rod and or after the filter material is formed into the continuous filter rod i.e. at any point along the rod forming unit or upstream or downstream thereof . However the first and second objects may also be introduced into the filter material at other points in the process and this exemplary embodiment is not intended to be limiting in that regard. In order to insert the first and second objects into the continuous filter rod the rod forming unit may include an element dividing mechanism not shown disposed upstream of the object insertion unit . In some instances the element dividing mechanism may be the object insertion unit or portion thereof itself.

The cylindrical composite is fed into wrapping mechanism which includes endless garniture conveyor belt or other garniture mechanism. The garniture conveyor belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using an advancing mechanism such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through wrapping mechanism . The wrapping mechanism provides a strip of wrapping material e.g. non porous paper plug wrap to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce a continuous wrapped filter rod .

Generally the strip or web of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin . The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers passes under block and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyor belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture of the wrapping mechanism or block as the case may be. The adhesive can be cooled using chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive.

It is understood that various other sealing mechanisms and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing mechanism and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using cutting assembly which may include as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or other suitable rod cutting or subdividing mechanism. It is particularly desirable that the cutting assembly does not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the cross sectional shape of the rod. The rate at which the cutting assembly severs the continuous rod at the desired points is controlled via an adjustable mechanical gear train not shown or other suitable mechanism. The rate at which the first and second objects are inserted into the continuous web of filter material continuous filter rod is in a direct relationship to the speed of operation of the rod making machine. The object insertion unit can be geared in a direct drive relationship to the drive assembly of the rod making apparatus. Alternatively the object insertion unit can have a direct drive motor synchronized with the drive assembly of the rod forming unit and feedback controlled by coupling with the object inspection mechanism to adjust the insertion unit drive assembly should the object insertion location shift out of position. In light of the relationship of the rate of object insertion and the rod making machine embodiments of the present invention are also directed to increasing the production rate of the rod making machine without adversely affecting the object placement within the filter material.

Referring to in one example the object insertion unit may include an insertion device having a rotatable insertion member shape for example as a wheel which may be positioned so as to rotate about a first axis A in a vertical plane. The rotatable insertion member may have a peripheral face extending parallel to the first axis A and defining a plurality of spaced apart pockets each pocket being of sufficient shape and size to accommodate one of the first and second objects. Individual first and second objects are placed into corresponding individual pockets located at predetermined intervals along the peripheral face of the rotatable insertion member . A vacuum or negative pressure assembly may be in fluid communication with the rotatable insertion member such that a vacuum or suction may be applied to each pocket in a radially inward direction with respect to the first axis A. The vacuum suction acts to assist in ensuring that each pocket accepts the corresponding one of the first and second objects and that each object within a pocket is maintained in that pocket during transport to the filter material . Each object may then be positioned at predetermined intervals within the filter material continuous filter rod . In some instances an ejection mechanism i.e. a pressurized air emission device may be in communication with the rotatable insertion member and or the pockets defined thereby to eject the objects from the pockets. For example pressurized air may be applied to each pocket as appropriate wherein the pressurized air acts to eject that object out of the pocket at the desired time e.g. when the object carried by the rotatable insertion member is located at the desired location within respect to the filter material continuous filter rod .

As the rotatable insertion member rotates in a clock wise fashion individual first and second objects not shown held within the pockets not shown on the peripheral face of the wheel are brought into contact with the filter material within the block where the first and second objects are ejected from the pockets into the gathered filter material filter rod As such the first and second objects may be discretely or otherwise separately positioned within the filter material filter rod by a single insertion device . Details of an exemplary rotatable insertion arrangement are further detailed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention may implement spacing patterns associated with the rotatable insertion member for particularly distributing discrete first and second objects along the length of the continuous filter rod . That is in one instance the rotatable insertion member may be configured so as to place particular pairs or other numbers of first and second objects in closer proximity to each other or immediately adjacent to each other to define a particular group of objects. For example the pockets for those objects may be more closely spaced or the rotatable insertion member may be configured in a different manner so as to for instance receive and deliver the groups of first and second objects in a substantially consistent and continuous feed according to the desired pattern. In some instances the first and second objects may be inserted into the continuous filter rod and along the axis thereof by the insertion device in serially disposed groups wherein each successive group may have the first and second objects alternatingly disposed along the longitudinal axis with respect to the previous group. For example as shown in the first objects and the second objects are illustrated as being disposed along the longitudinal axis of the continuous rod in seriatim groups of two wherein the successive groups alternate between of the relative order of the first object with respect to the second object along the axis. To that end the first and second objects may be correspondingly disposed in similar groups in the pockets of the insertion device such that the first and second objects may be inserted into the continuous rod in such groupings. For example as illustrated in one pocket may have a first object therein while a successive pocket also contains a first object which may then be followed by two successive pockets having second objects . However the first and second objects may be spaced apart such that successive first and second objects are closer spaced than successive first objects or successive second objects . In such instances the groups of objects are represented by one first object paired with one second object though the relative order of the first and second objects in successive groups is alternatingly reversed. In this manner the insertion device may serially insert alternating groups of first and second objects into the continuous rod of filter material though as shown in some instances the spacing between inserted first objects or inserted second objects may be greater than that of the spacing between adjacent first and second objects . That is dissimilar objects may be spaced closer along the longitudinal axis of the continuous rod than similar objects.

Referring to the rotatable insertion member may in some instances further include a retaining member incorporated engaged with or otherwise received in each pocket so as to be associated therewith. The retaining member may be configured as a screen a perforated member a sieve or sieve like member or any other retaining structure that permits air to flow therethrough. As such each pocket may be capable of receiving and maintaining a plurality of objects therein wherein each object may be relatively small as compared to the dimensions of the pocket itself. In addition the pocket may be in communication with a channel fluidly connected to the vacuum negative pressure assembly wherein the negative pressure applied to the pocket via the channel inlet may facilitate the maintenance of the objects within the pocket during rotation of the insertion member . The retaining member thus permits the vacuum negative pressure assembly to draw air radially inwardly through the pocket with respect to the peripheral face such that the relatively small object s may be maintained in the respective pocket rather than being drawn into a channel or blocking the channel inlet . Accordingly objects smaller than the pocket may be received and carried by the rotatable insertion member for insertion within the filter material filter rod .

In some instances the retaining member may be inserted within the pocket the channel inlet and or the channel to prevent the relatively small objects i.e. minicapsules microcapsules or other miniature objects from being drawn into the channel . That is the pocket the channel inlet and or the channel may be configured to receive the retaining member such that the retaining member is maintained therein by an interference fit or other suitable mechanism either temporarily or permanently. In one embodiment the retaining member may have a frustoconical portion extending into the channel and a lip portion integral therewith to prevent the retaining member from being drawn into the channel . In other instances the retaining member may be incorporated into or otherwise defined by the pocket the channel inlet and or the channel . In this regard the retaining member may be integral with the rotatable insertion member in a permanent manner. In such instances the channel inlets and or channels may be appropriately connected to the pocket or otherwise material removed from the pocket to fluidly connect the pocket with the vacuum negative pressure assembly.

In some instances the retaining member may also facilitate stacking of the objects or otherwise the insertion of a plurality of such objects within the pocket . In this regard the air drawn through the retaining member is of substantial force to maintain multiple objects within the pocket wherein some of such objects may not necessarily be directly adjacent the retaining member . The insertable or integral retaining member may be of any suitable shape size or configuration which substantially prevents the relatively small objects from entering the channel or blocking the channel inlet while allowing air to be drawn into the channel to maintain the objects within the pocket during rotation of the insertion member . For example the axial cross section of the pocket and thus the retaining member may be substantially circular or elliptical in shape. Further the channel inlets may be configured in any suitable shape and size for effectuating an appropriate suction for maintaining the objects within the pocket .

Referring to the object insertion unit may further include first and second delivery systems for delivering or otherwise feeding the respective first and second objects to the insertion device . That is the first and second objects may be separately and discretely delivered to the insertion device e.g. rotatable insertion member by respective first and second delivery systems A B such that the objects are transferred therebetween. The first and second delivery systems A B may be similarly configured with each including a rotatable feeder device A B for delivering or otherwise providing the respective first and second objects to the insertion device for insertion into the filter material filter rod . As each rotatable feeder device A B rotates in a counter clock wise fashion as shown in respective individual first and second objects or pluralities of first and second objects when using miniature objects and the retaining member held within feeder pockets A B on a peripheral face of the respective rotatable feeder device A B may be brought into a transfer position generally designated as A B respectively with the rotatable insertion member . At the transfer position certain feeder pockets A B are positioned in registration with corresponding pockets of the rotatable insertion member . As such in the transfer position the respective first and second objects may be ejected or otherwise transferred from the feeder pockets A B into the pockets of the rotatable insertion device . In this manner the rotatable feeder devices A B cooperate with the insertion device to transfer exchange or otherwise deliver the respective first and second objects thereto in the order previously noted herein. In some instances the rotatable feeder devices A B may each employ a vacuum negative pressure assembly similar to that of the insertion device to maintain the objects within the feeder pockets A B during rotation of the rotatable feeder devices A B. Further the rotatable feeder devices A B may each be configured to eject the objects from the feeder pockets A B at the transfer positions A B via positive air pressure or otherwise by interrupting the suction negative pressure applied to the feeder pockets A B at the transfer position.

With continuing reference to the spacing of the feeder pockets A B may be greater than that of the pockets of the insertion member due to the presence of two delivery sources for supplying the first and second objects to the insertion member . Further the rotatable feeder devices may supply first and second objects such that a pair of the same objects is adjacently disposed to each other and with respect to the insertion member with the pairs of objects alternating about the insertion member rather than alternating on a single object basis. In this regard the first and second objects may be positioned within the filter material filter rod in for example pairs or groupings of first and second objects such that the continuous filter rod can be subdivided into a plurality of rod portions wherein each rod portion contains at least one first object and at least one second object . illustrates one exemplary embodiment of the relationship between the first and second rotatable feeder devices A B with respect to the insertion device . In such an example the respective first and second objects are each spaced apart i.e. each pair of objects is spaced apart and delivered to the insertion device in alternating groupings i.e. a pair of first objects followed by a pair of second objects . Accordingly once inserted into the filter material filter rod the groupings are serially disposed along the longitudinal axis in a correspondingly alternating manner.

The first and second delivery systems A B may each further include a respective hopper assembly A B and or other transfer mechanism for feeding or otherwise delivering the first and second objects such as for example capsules and or pellets mini capsules and or mini pellets or combinations thereof to the rotatable feeder devices A B. In some instances the insertion unit may include a hopper assembly such as that further detailed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated herein by reference . That is each hopper assembly may include an upper hopper that acts as a reservoir for a plurality of first or second objects and provides for supply of same objects to a lower hopper. Passage of objects from the upper hopper to the lower hopper is promoted by vibrating the objects contained in the upper hopper as well as optionally by employing a movable screening mechanism e.g. a reciprocating bar possessing vertically extending passageways for object transport . The lower hopper is shaped so that the objects are stacked therein. The objects in the lower hopper are stacked on top of one another but at a depth when viewed looking toward the hopper of a single object. The bottom of the lower hopper is shaped so as to cooperate with a portion of upper region of the respective rotatable feeder device A B that is positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane and the objects are fed from the lower hopper into pockets or receptacles defined by the peripheral face of that rotatable feeder device. That is objects within the lower hopper are delivered in single file to the pockets receptacles defined along a portion of the peripheral face of the upper region of the rotatable feeder device. Having incorporated U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. by reference the details and operation of the multi portion hopper assembly A B feeder device A B are not otherwise described in detail herein but instead are referenced to that publication. The types of equipment dimensions operational parameters and materials of construction hopper assembly feeder device also find reference in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated herein by reference .

The feeder devices A B and or the insertion member may be driven by respective pulley and belt assemblies coupled with the main drive assembly of the rod making apparatus . Alternatively the feeder devices A B and or the insertion member may have independent drive motors synchronized with or controlled by the main drive assembly not shown of the rod forming unit . Alternatively feeder devices A B and or the insertion member may be driven using independent drives that are servo controlled for synchronization. For example a servo system or drive system may be provided for controlling aligning or otherwise enabling operation of the configurations described herein. Such control systems servo systems or other drive system may be adapted from the control systems disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated herein by reference for driving operating a single wheel assembly.

Referring to in controlling this process a typical control system may include control hardware and software. An exemplary control system can incorporate a Siemens 315 2DP Processor a Siemens FM352 5 Boolean processor and a 16 input bit 16 output bit module. Such a system can utilize a system display such as a Siemens MP370. A typical rod making unit possesses internal controls whereby for a rod of desired length the speed of the knife of the severing unit is timed relative to the speed of continuous rod formation. A first encoder by way of connection with the drive belt of the rod making unit and with the control unit of the insertion unit provides reference of the knife position of the cutting assembly relative to the wheel position of the insertion unit . Thus the first encoder provides a mechanism for allowing control of the speed of rotation of the wheel of the insertion unit relative to the speed at which continuous web of filter tow passes through the rod making unit. An exemplary first encoder is available as Heidenhain Absolute 2048.

An inspection detection system may be located near the cutting assembly. The detection system such as an infrared detection system relays information regarding the detection of a first and second object within the filter rod to the control system . Typically the first and second objects within the filter rod are of a contrasting shade or color to be detected by visual detection sensors in the detection system . In other instances the inspection detection system may be appropriately modified so as to be capable of detecting inspecting various first and second objects. For example the inspection detection system may be configured to detect inspect a capsule a pellet or any multiples or combinations thereof. Such an inspection detection system is disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated by reference.

The rod making apparatus optionally can be equipped with a system adapted to provide information associated with rod production and operation event analysis. For example a rod making apparatus such as a commercially available KDF 2 type of unit can be adapted so as to be equipped with a central processing unit. A representative central processing unit is available as a Siemens 314 C processor. The central processing unit is equipped with input and output modules. As such the operation of the rod making unit can be monitored and data so generated can be transferred to the central processing unit. In addition data received by the central processing unit can be presented on a video touch screen or retrieved by a high level operating system e.g. via an Ethernet . A remote unit such as Siemens IM 153 equipped with inputs outputs and a counter module available as Siemens FM350 2 installed in sending unit collects data provided to the central processing unit using a bus system e.g. Profibus . Depending upon information gathered data that can be generated may relate to number of rods manufactured during a particular time frame machine operating speed manufacturing efficiency number of stops filters sent to a making machine and stoppage reasons.

Referring to the continuous web of filter material is fed into guide or block shown as partially cut away . The block receives the wide band of filter material and gradually forms the web into a composite which generally resembles a cylindrical composite continuous filter rod . In some instance a plow region of the ledger housing separates or spreads the filter material filter rod such that the first and second objects may be ejected from the peripheral face of the insertion member and positioned or placed into the desired locations within the web of filter material filter rod and along the longitudinal axis thereof. When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the plow the motion of the tow as it is drawn through the process causes the tow to close itself back into the cylindrical composite which thereby encloses surrounds or contains the first and second objects deposited therein along the length of and within the continuous filter rod . A suitable plow preferably extends to a maximum depth of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm into the web of filter material filter rod . The insertion unit can be raised or lowered i.e. moved toward or away from the filter material filter rod in order that the first and second objects can be inserted at the desired depth within the filter material filter rod . In such a manner a series of first and second objects may be positioned as desired in the web of filter material along the length of and within the cylindrical composite that exits the block and enters the tongue or other suitable gathering mechanism.

Referring to the guide or block the top portion of which is shown as partially cut away has a relatively wide opening at one end in order that the filter material can be fed therein. The shape of the hollow inner portion of the block may be such that the filter material is formed into a composite which more generally resembles a cylinder filter rod . In particular the inner portion of the block may be a hollow region or cavity in order that the filter material can be passed therethrough. The block may have a longitudinally extending slot along the top portion thereof in order to allow the rotating wheel and ledger housing insertion member not shown to extend into the web of filter material filter rod and to insert the first and second objects therein. In a suitable situation a plow not shown extends into the slot so as to extend about 0.3 mm to about 0.4 mm from the extreme bottom portion of the hollow inner portion of the block . The resulting cylindrical composite is received to further downstream processing regions of the rod forming unit. Similar types of blocks are set forth for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the rod making apparatus may optionally include more than one such block and insertion unit assembly where such a plurality of assemblies may be for example disposed in series. In other instances a single block may be configured with more than one such insertion unit . For example where each insertion member of the insertion units has a diameter of between about 135 mm and about 140 mm a pair of insertion members may be mounted with respect to a single block with about 150 mm center to center spacing. In instances of more than one insertion device i.e. more than one block insertion unit assembly or more than one insertion member per single block the rod making apparatus may be configured to place a mixed plurality of first and second objects i.e. various combinations of first and second objects such as for example capsules or pellets mini capsules or mini pellets or combinations thereof into the filter material filter rod with each of the object insertion devices handling or capable of handling various types of objects. In some instances the block insertion member assemblies multiple assemblies or the insertion members single block multiple insertion members may also be modularly configured or otherwise optional such that the number of object insertion devices may be varied as necessary or desirable. In order to accomplish the desired configuration of first and second object insertion the plurality of object insertion devices may be coordinated and or synchronized in various manners such as by timing sensing or any other suitable scheme.

Preferred types of first and second objects and the dimensions thereof are set forth below. The objects can vary. Each object may possess a generally spherical shape and most preferably is highly spherical in nature. Some objects can be generally solid in nature. Some objects can be composed of a plastic material and each can be for example a solid spherical bead composed of a mixture of polyethylene and flavor or a spherical bead having the form of exchange resin or gel. Some objects can be composed of an inorganic material and can be for example a spherical alumina bead. The objects also can each have the form of a spherical bead composed of a carbonaceous material. The objects also can each have the form of a hollow sphere. Typical hollow objects are liquid containing objects such as breakable capsules which are highly spherical are uniform in size and weight have surface properties that allow such objects to be processed efficiently and effectively using automated filter making equipment and are highly uniform in composition. Some objects have diameters of about 3 mm to about 4 mm preferably about 3.5 mm and the components of the preferred filter rod making equipment of the present invention are suitably adapted or designed to efficiently and effectively produce filter rods incorporating those types of objects. Preferred hollow objects have sufficient physical integrity to not rupture during handling and insertion thereof into the filter material.

Other types of objects beads capsules and capsule components that can be employed for the production of filter rods using the foregoing filter rod manufacturing techniques and equipment are of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 631 722 to MacAdam et al. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference. Tobacco products can incorporate those types of components set forth in US Patent Publication Nos. 2006 0272663 to Dube et al. 2006 0130861 to Luan et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. and 2007 0012327 to Karles et al. PCT WO 2006 136197 PCT WO 2006 136199 and PCT WO 2007 010407 PCT WO 2007 060543 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal and U.S. Pat. No. 7 479 098 to Thomas et al. as well as within filtered cigarettes that have been marketed under the tradename Camel Lights with Menthol Boost and Camel Crush by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. Exemplary pelletized carrier materials and flavor packages are of the type employed in cigarettes that have been marketed commercially in the USA. For example flavor carrying pellets have been incorporated into cigarette filters employed on Camel brand cigarettes under the tradenames Mandalay Lime Mandarin Mint Breach Breezer Back Ally Blend Snakeyes Scotch Izmir Stinger Kauai Kolada Midnight Madness Aegean Spice Screwdriver Slots Twist Twista Lime Dark Mint and Blackjack Gin Kool brand cigarettes under the tradenames Flow and Groove and Salem brand cigarettes under the tradename Deep Freeze all of which have been marketed by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

Referring to a filter rod generally can be further subdivided into individual cylindrical shaped filter elements or rod portions using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing and as described above. The filter rod includes filter material encased in circumscribing wrapping material such as conventional air permeable or air impermeable paper plug wrap or other suitable wrapping material. As an example at least one first and second object and preferably a plurality of first objects and and a plurality of second objects and may be disposed along the longitudinal axis of and within the rod . As shown adjacent first objects and adjacent second objects and are relatively spaced apart while adjacent first and second objects and are relatively close together wherein the greater spacing may correspond for example to a division between successive filter rod portions. One skilled in the art will note that the entire filter rod may include sufficient one or more first and second objects therein such that each filter rod portion includes the same number of one or more first and second objects when the filter rod is subdivided. For example a four up filter rod may include first and second objects each in multiples of four such that upon subdivision each filter rod portion may include 1 2 3 or 4 of each of the first and second objects.

According to other embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in the filter rod may be subdivided using rod cutting assembly into filter rod portions such that each filter rod portion includes or otherwise defines a plurality of integral cigarette filter elements wherein each cigarette filter element includes at least one first object and at least one second object . For example the filter rod may be initially subdivided along lines and into filter rod portions and respectively as shown in . The filter rod portions may then be further subdivided such as along line to form a subdivided filter rod portion having or defining only two integral cigarette filter elements such as for example subdivided filter rod portions with each having at least one first and second object disposed therein. As shown in each subdivided filter rod portion includes two pairs of first and second objects disposed therein wherein the first pair has the first and second objects in the reverse order compared to the second pair along the longitudinal axis. The succession or plurality of subdivided filter rod portions may then be collected in a tray a rotary collection drum conveying system or the like. If desired the subdivided filter rod portions may then be transported directly to a cigarette forming unit configured to attach secure or otherwise couple a tobacco rod portion to the individual cigarette filter elements defined thereby. In this regard each subdivided filter rod portion i.e. may have a pair of tobacco rod portions attached thereto on opposing ends thereof such that the two individual cigarette filter elements defined thereby have a tobacco rod portion attached thereto see e.g. . The tobacco rod portions may be coupled to the ends of the subdivided filter rod portion with tipping paper or by other processes as known in the art. As illustrated in the subdivided filter rod portion having the tobacco rod portions attached thereto may then be further subdivided using a cigarette dividing unit not shown such that two as formed cigarettes are produced see e.g. . Due to the particular placement of each of the first and second object within the continuous filter rod as well as the subsequent subdivision steps each produced as formed cigarette has the first and second objects disposed within the cigarette filter element in the same order with respect to the tobacco rod portion thereof.

Referring to there is shown a smoking article such as a cigarette possessing certain representative components The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod. The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. The cigarette is shown as having one optional band e.g. a printed coating including a film forming agent such as starch ethylcellulose or sodium alginate applied to the wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material as shown or less preferably on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette can possess a wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

The wrapping material of the tobacco rod can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Tobacco rods can have one layer of wrapping material or tobacco rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap tobacco rods. Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 7 275 548 to Hancock et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 281 540 to Barnes et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 057986 to Hancock et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 047572 to Ashcraft et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the other end is positioned a filter element . The filter element positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow impregnated with triacetin plasticizer that is over wrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . That is the filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of plug wrap and each end is open to expose the filter material .

Within the filter element is positioned at least one first object and at least one different second object the first and second objects including for example capsules pellets . The number of each of the first and second objects within each filter element most preferably is a pre determined number and that number can be 1 2 3 or more i.e. at least one . Most preferably in some embodiments each filter element contains a single one of each of a first and second object disposed within the filter material of the filter element in some instances particularly towards the central region of the filter element. Most preferably the nature of the filter material is such that the first and second objects are secured or lodged in place within the filter element . In some instances some of the at least one first and or second objects or pluralities thereof may be hollow such as a breakable capsule that may carry a payload incorporating a compound that is intended to introduce some change to the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element e.g. a flavoring agent . That is the shell of some hollow first and or second objects may be ruptured at the discretion of the smoker to release the object payload. Alternatively some first and second objects may be a solid porous material with a high surface area capable of altering the smoke and or air drawn through the filter element. Some first and second objects may be a solid material such as a polyethylene bead acting as a substrate or matrix support for a flavoring agent. Some preferred first and second objects are capable of releasing the agent at the command of the user. For example a preferred breakable hollow object containing a liquid payload is resistant to the release of the payload until the time that the smoker applies a purposeful application of physical force sufficient to rupture the hollow object. Typically a filter material such as cellulose acetate tow is generally absorbent of liquid materials of the type that comprise the payload and hence the released payload components are capable of undergoing wicking or otherwise experiencing movement or transfer throughout the filter element. Since at least one first and second object is included in each filter element the filter element may include combinations of various types of objects as appropriate or desired.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod using tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping paper that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another.

The tipping material connecting the filter element to the tobacco rod can have indicia not shown printed thereon. For example a band on the filter end of a cigarette not shown can visually indicate to a smoker the general locations or positions of the first and second objects within the filter element . These indicia may help the smoker to locate some first and second objects so that they can for example be more easily ruptured by squeezing the filter element directly outside the position of any such rupturable object. The indicia on the tipping material may also indicate the nature of the payload carried by each object. For example the indicia may indicate that the particular payload is a spearmint flavoring by having a particular color shape or design. If desired the inner surface i.e. the surface facing the plug wrap of the tipping material can be coated with a material that can act to retard the propensity of rupturable object contents from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material and hence causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture .

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap. The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. As these techniques are carried out after insertion of any first and second objects into the filter element care is taken to avoid damaging the objects during the formation of the perforations . One way to avoid damage from air dilution techniques such as those employing laser perforation technologies involves locating the perforations at a position adjacent to the positions of the first and second objects . In such a manner radiation heat or physical forces acting upon the filter element during perforation processes do not have such a great propensity to damage the objects. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . The perforated region can be positioned upstream of any object or the perforated region can be positioned downstream of any object i.e. towards the extreme mouth end of the filter element .

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap Plug Wrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 65 M9 95 M9 150 M4 260M4 and 260 M4T. Preferred plug wrap materials are non porous in nature. Non porous plug wraps exhibit porosities of less than about 10 CORESTA units and preferably less than about 5 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available as Ref. No. 646 Grade from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic Trierendberg Holding . Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

The use of non porous plug wrap materials is desirable in order to avoid the contents of rupturable objects within filter elements from causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material . For example highly non porous plug wrap materials can act to retard or block the propensity of liquid contents of the rupturable objects from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material. The plug wrap is typically applied about the rod in a garniture region downstream of the gathering region.

Tobacco materials useful for carrying out the present invention can vary. Tobacco materials can be derived from various types of tobacco such as flue cured tobacco burley tobacco Oriental tobacco or Maryland tobacco dark tobacco dark fired tobacco and Rustica tobaccos as well as other rare or specialty tobaccos or blends thereof. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . Most preferably the tobaccos are those that have been appropriately cured and aged.

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise mixtures of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco. Such blends in many cases contain tobacco materials that have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as dry ice expanded tobacco DIET preferably in cut filler form . Tobacco materials also can have the form of reconstituted tobaccos e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes . The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3rd Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Other representative tobacco types and types of tobacco blends also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 to Lawson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 701 936 to Shafer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 205 066 to Lawson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 678 to Crooks et al. US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0255965 to Perfetti et al 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. PCT Application Pub. No. WO 02 37990 and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 .

Tobacco materials typically are used in forms and in manners that are traditional for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within the tobacco rod of a cigarette ranges from about 0.6 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to fill the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cm3 to about 300 mg cm3 and often about 150 mg cm3 to about 275 mg cm3.

If desired the tobacco materials of the tobacco rod can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

The dimensions of a representative cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and can have diameters of about 7.5 mm e.g. circumferences of about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm and can have total lengths of about 80 mm to about 100 mm. The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have lengths of about 20 mm to about 40 mm. In one preferred embodiment the length of the filter element is about 27 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 56 mm to about 57 mm. In another embodiment the length of the filter element is about 31 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 67 mm to about 68 mm. The tipping paper can circumscribe the entire filter element and about 4 mm of the length of the tobacco rod in the region adjacent to the filter element.

Preferred cigarettes made according to the method of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw whether or not any hollow objects within their filter elements are broken. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 mm and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available form Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

In use the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette and draws smoke into his her mouth through the filter element at the opposite end of the cigarette. The smoker can smoke all or a portion of the cigarette with the first and second objects intact. During the portion of the smoking experience that any objects remain intact smoke generated in the tobacco rod is drawn to the smoker through the filter material of the filter element. Most preferably the overall character or nature of the drawn smoke is virtually unaffected to any significant degree as a result of the presence of the intact object s within the filter element unless particular objects are configured to be activated by or otherwise affect the drawn smoke. If desired the smoker may rupture any or all of the rupturable first and or second objects at any time before during or even after the smoking experience. Breakage of any rupturable object acts to release the contents that are contained and sealed therewithin. Release of the contents of any rupturable object into the filter element thus enables the smoker to achieve the intended benefit of action of certain of those contents whether that benefit results from flavoring or scenting the smoke cooling or moistening the smoke freshening the scent of the cigarette butt or achieving some other goal associated with modifying the overall composition of the smoke or altering the performance characteristics of the cigarette.

That is in highly preferred embodiments the contents of any rupturable object are not released into the filter element until the particular object is purposefully physically broken but when a rupturable object is ruptured a portion of component contained within the rupturable object e.g. portions of a flavoring agent that is consequently released into the filter element is incorporated into each subsequent puff of mainstream smoke that is received through that filter element. In this manner any rupturable object can be ruptured by the smoker at their discretion. Multiple flavors or scents in or otherwise associated with the individual objects allows for different taste in each puff of the cigarette or an increased amplitude of sensory response in each puff may be experienced by the smoker if the flavor is the same in all objects. In some instances relatively small objects may be incorporated in each filter element due to the different manners in and the different extent to which the sensory responses may be affected when smoking the cigarette.

During use of the cigarette application of physical pressure to any of the rupturable first and or second objects for example by a squeezing action provided by the fingers of the smoker to the filter element causes relevant region of the filter element to deform and hence causes a particular rupturable object or objects to rupture and release the respective payload to the filter material of the filter element. The rupture of any rupturable first and or second object can be discerned by an audible pop or snap the feel of a crushing or shattering of the rupturable object or the sense of a rapid decrease in the resistance to the pressure applied by the smoker. Rupture of a rupturable object causes contents of its payload to disperse throughout portions of the filter material and potentially to some extent into the tobacco rod . Most preferably the filter element into which the first and second objects are placed and maintained is such that the filter element effectively maintains its overall shape during the manufacture storage and use of the cigarette. Most preferably the filter element is sufficiently flexible such that the overall cylindrical shape of the filter element returns to essentially its original shape after the application of pressure to the filter element is ceased. That is the filter element possesses sufficient flexibility to allow squeezing pressure applied by the fingers of the smoker to break a rupturable object and sufficient resilience to allow the deformed filter element to return to its original shape.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

