---

title: Providing service based on quality of service resources in a long term evolution communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, an apparatus (e.g., a client device or a server) sends, to a Long Term Evolution (LTE) network component, a request to setup a Quality of Service (QoS) bearer with a threshold level of QoS to support the communication session for the client device. The apparatus permits the client device to proceed with the attempt to setup the communication session irrespective of whether the LTE network component grants the threshold level of QoS for the QoS bearer. In another embodiment, the LTE network component rejects an initial QoS request from the apparatus due to QoS unavailability, and then receives another QoS request within a threshold period of time. Based on the two (or more) QoS requests being received within the threshold period of time, the LTE network component allocates an available level of QoS to the client device that is less than the requested level of QoS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288816&OS=09288816&RS=09288816
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09288816
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 717 entitled PROVIDING SERVICE BASED ON QUALITY OF SERVICE RESOURCES IN A LONG TERM EVOLUTION COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Aug. 31 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to providing service based on Quality of Service QoS in a Long Term Evolution LTE communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

In an embodiment an apparatus e.g. a client device or a server sends to a Long Term Evolution LTE network component a request to setup a Quality of Service QoS bearer with a threshold level of QoS to support the communication session for the client device. The apparatus permits the client device to proceed with the attempt to setup the communication session irrespective of whether the LTE network component grants the threshold level of QoS for the QoS bearer. In another embodiment the LTE network component rejects an initial QoS request from the apparatus due to QoS unavailability and then receives another QoS request within a threshold period of time. Based on the two or more QoS requests being received within the threshold period of time the LTE network component allocates an available level of QoS to the client device that is less than the requested level of QoS.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMES D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffSery Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Sessions that operate over networks such as 1 EV DO in UMTS based W CDMA in LTE in and eHRPD in can be supported on channels e.g. RABs flows etc. for which a guaranteed quality level is reserved which is referred to as Quality of Service QoS . For example establishing a given level of QoS on a particular channel may provide one or more of a minimum guaranteed bit rate GBR on that channel a maximum delay jitter latency bit error rate BER and so on. QoS resources can be reserved or setup for channels associated with real time or streaming communication sessions such as Voice over IP VoIP sessions group communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions etc. online games IP TV and so on to help ensure seamless end to end packet transfer for these sessions.

In EV DO networks as in a UE can request a particular QoS level QoS resources to be associated with a communication session. If the RAN has sufficient QoS resources in the UE s sector the QoS level can be allocated to the requesting UE.

The RAN receives the request for QoS resources and determines whether sufficient QoS resources are available with the given UE s sector for allocation to the given UE . For example the determination of can be based on the RAN s QoS resource obligations to other UEs within given UE s sector. In of assume that the RAN determines that sufficient QoS resources are not available for the given UE. In other words the RAN cannot accommodate the given UE s request for QoS resources. In this case the RAN sends a message on a downlink channel to the given UE indicating that the given UE s QoS request for resources has been denied . For example in 1 EV DO Rev. A or 1 EV DO Rev. B networks the denial message of may correspond to a Fwd RevReservationReject message on the downlink channel.

In the given UE notifies its user of the call failure. After the given UE receives the message indicating that the QoS resource request has been denied and indicates the call failure to the user the user of the given UE can instruct the given UE to either re attempt to obtain QoS resources from the RAN e.g. by sending another ReservationOnRequest on the reverse link access channel to the RAN as in or to drop the call. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art call failures can frustrate subscribers can cause subscribers to abandon call attempts and or can otherwise degrade the subscriber s experience with the service as discussed above.

With respect to if the QoS dependent application requires the EV DO or HRPD RAN to provide a certain QoS guarantee in order for a given multimedia application denoted as App described below in more detail to offer service where the QoS guarantee or reservation is obtained 1 first requesting QoS from the RAN at call time and either 2A offering the service if the RAN is able to grant the requested QoS at call time or 2B denying access to the service until the next call attempt if the RAN is not able to grant the QoS at call time. In the case of 2A the application is assumed to release the granted QoS when the call terminates.

Multiple approaches for providing a graceful degradation in service availability for an application that nominally requires a high level of QoS resources from an EV DO network are described below with respect to . In each approach the logic surrounding how the application e.g. a multimedia application itself requests QoS at call time is modified to allow for a graceful degradation of service availability. As used herein the term call refers to any communication session within a wireless network e.g. a PTT call video streaming etc. and call time refers to the initial communication to setup and or establish the communication session. The multimedia application is denoted below as App whereby App can correspond to any application that requires QoS resources on a media flow for supporting its communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions VoIP sessions etc. . App may be embodied with a client side application that executes on UEs denoted as App client application or simply App as well as server logic that executes at the application server for supporting network communications for App .

In one embodiment the App client application nominally always requests QoS at call time as described above but ignores the result of requesting QoS for the purpose of determining whether the call can proceed. The App client application uses any provided QoS guarantee to place the call when the RAN is able to provide the requested QoS guarantee but also allows the call to proceed without the requested QoS guarantee in the event the RAN is not able to provide the requested QoS guarantee.

This embodiment provides for a graceful degradation in service by allowing a high quality version of App to be offered when the RAN is able to provide the QoS guarantee and a lower e.g. degraded version of App to be offered when the RAN is not. However because the degraded form of App is offered without the benefit of any QoS guarantees the degraded form of the App service can be highly dependent on RAN performance when the requested QoS guarantee is not available. Conventionally as will be appreciated from the description of above the RAN will simply fail QoS in the event a requested service level is unavailable for assignment and will not provide a degraded level of service. EV DO or HRPD RANs are generally designed to honor specific QoS profiles and not to make decisions in the event that the entire profile cannot be honored.

The QoS request may be conventional or may be bundled with other messages in an initial communication. For example the QoS resource request message e.g. the ReservationOnRequest message in 1 EV DO networks may be sent independently of other messages i.e. non bundled . In another example the ReservationOnRequest message may be bundled with other messaging such as a ConnectionRequest message that requests a TCH assignment a Data over Signaling message and the like.

As will be appreciated the determined amount of QoS resources i.e. the RAN s best effort at satisfying the QoS resource request message is less than the amount of QoS resources requested by the given UE because the RAN determined in A that the requested amount of QoS could not be granted. Again it is understood that the RAN would simply grant the requested QoS resources if those resources are available.

Returning to assume that the RAN may maintain for a period of time the initial QoS resource request message received from the given UE at A. During the given UE s call the RAN continues to monitor its available QoS resources A. Accordingly if the monitoring of A indicates that additional QoS resources become available during the call the RAN may on its own initiative e.g. without receiving a subsequent ReservationOnRequest message determine if the requested QoS can be granted. If so the RAN grants the newly available QoS resources to the given UE A. After the supplemental QoS allocation of A the given UE communicates with the RAN based on the granted QoS resources A. The monitoring and additional QoS resource allocation of A and A respectively may continue until the amount of QoS resources indicated by the QoS resource request message of A is allocated to the given UE. Accordingly even though the best effort QoS resources are allocated relatively quickly in A this does not preclude the RAN from sending a later message granting a higher level of QoS resources e.g. the full requested level .

In the QoS resource request of A has been described for an initial call attempt. However it is possible that the process of can alternatively describe a subsequent call attempt e.g. a second call attempt that follows an earlier call attempt as will now be described with respect to .

In App nominally requests QoS at call time as described above and fails the call when the requested QoS guarantee cannot be provided by the EV DO RAN . However for a subsequent call attempt that closely follows e.g. within a relatively short period of time a call attempt that failed due to the RAN previously not being able to offer the requested QoS guarantee at call time App requests QoS but ignores the result of the QoS request for the purpose of determining whether the subsequent call can proceed. App uses any provided QoS guarantee to place this subsequent call when the RAN is able to provide the requested QoS guarantee but also allows the subsequent call to proceed without the requested QoS guarantee in the event the RAN is not able to provide the requested QoS guarantee.

The embodiment of thereby results in a graceful degradation in service by allowing a high quality version of App to be offered when the RAN is able to provide the QoS guarantee and a lower degraded version of App to be offered after an initial failure when the RAN is not. The algorithm provides a degraded form of App service that is highly dependent on the RAN s performance only when the requested QoS guarantee cannot be initially provided available otherwise App provides the high quality version of the service after a single initial failure.

Referring to in B the given UE sends a message e.g. on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request a given amount of QoS resources for App . In the example of it is assumed that the QoS resource request of B is associated with an initial call attempt i.e. a first time the given UE has attempted to make a particular call within a threshold period of time . The QoS resource request may otherwise be configured as discussed above with respect to A of e.g. as part of a bundled call request message that also requests a traffic channel as an independent message etc. . The RAN receives the QoS resource request and denies the requested QoS resources in B. After receiving the denial of the QoS resource request the given UE indicates to a user of the given UE that the call has failed B and an attempt to make the call if it closely follows the original call attempt B follows the process defined in . Specifically if the given UE determines to re attempt the call the process advances to A of . Alternatively if the re attempt does not closely follow the initial attempt the process will just indicate the call has failed and possibly return to the top to repeat the initial request B.

Accordingly in the example of the process of is executed for a subsequent call attempt instead of during an initial call attempt. Thus in this example the call set up that occurs irrespective of whether QoS resources are granted occurs after an initial call failure.

In App nominally always requests QoS at call time as described above but waits a prescribed period of time before failing the call when the requested QoS guarantee cannot be provided by the network RAN . During a prescribed period of time if the requested QoS guarantee becomes available late App allows a delayed form of the original call to proceed rather than failing the call. If the requested QoS guarantee does not become available during the prescribed period App fails the call. According to embodiments of the invention the prescribed period of time can be either predefined or configurable by either the operator offering the application or the user using the service.

The embodiment of can result in a graceful degradation in service by allowing a high quality version of App to be offered when the RAN is able to provide the QoS guarantee and a lower degraded version of App to be offered after an initial failure when the RAN is able to offer the requested QoS guarantee after a delay. The algorithm is useful in offering a degraded form of the service when the ability of the RAN to provide requested QoS guarantee is highly dependent on the specific instance of when the request is made. As such the degraded form of App takes the form of a delayed version of the original high quality service in the embodiment of discussed next.

Accordingly in A the given UE sends a message e.g. on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request QoS resources. For example in 1 EV DO Rev. A or 1 EV DO Rev. B networks the request of A may include a ReservationOnRequest message on the reverse link access channel. In another example the ReservationOnRequest message may be bundled with other messaging such as a ConnectionRequest message that requests a TCH assignment as discussed above for a given call e.g. a PTT call . While the standard timer is illustrated in as starting before the QoS resource request is transmitted in A in another embodiment the standard timer can be started after the QoS resource request is sent. In any case the starting of the standard timer generally approximates the time at which the QoS resource request is sent.

In A the given UE determines whether a response to the QoS resource request is received before an expiration of the standard timer. In an example assume that the given UE determines that no QoS response has been received A and the process advances to . At this point a conventional UE would infer that QoS resources would not be granted and would fail the call. However in A the given UE refrains from indicating call failure and starts a second Defer Timer. It will be appreciated that while both a first timer i.e. standard timer and a second timer i.e. defer timer are implemented within the embodiment of in another embodiment of the invention the first and second timers can be replaced by a single timer having an expiration period that is longer than the standard timer s expiration period e.g. equal to the expiration period of the standard timer plus the expiration of the defer timer . Essentially starting the defer timer permits the given UE a longer wait time before inferring that it will not be assigned QoS resources by the RAN for a particular QoS resource request. Thus reference to the Defer Timer is intended to encompass either i starting a separate timer after expiration of the standard timer or ii a timer period extending beyond that of the standard timer where the standard timer period and defer timer period correspond to a single timer unless one of these alternative embodiments is referred to explicitly.

Accordingly in A the given UE determines whether a QoS response has been received before the Defer Timer has expired. If a response is received before the Defer Timer has expired the process advances to A. Otherwise if the defer timer has expired the given UE indicates to the user of the given UE that the call attempt has failed A.

Turning to the RAN after the QoS resource request is received in A the RAN determines whether to grant the QoS resource request A. In A if the RAN determines not to grant the QoS resource request the RAN sends a QoS resource denial message e.g. Fwd RevReservationOff message . Otherwise in A if the RAN determines to grant the QoS resource request the RAN sends a QoS resource grant message e.g. Fwd RevReservationOn message .

Turning back to the given UE the given UE receives the QoS resource allocation message sent by the RAN e.g. as indicated by a Yes in decision block A or A depending on when the QoS resource allocation message is received and determines that whether its requested QoS resources have been granted in A. In A if the given UE determines that its requested QoS resources have not been granted the given UE indicates call failure to the user in A.

Otherwise if the given UE determines that its requested QoS resources have been granted in A the given UE communicates with the RAN and supports the call based on the granted QoS resources A and the given UE indicates call success to the user A.

In the QoS resource request of A has been described for an initial call attempt. However it is possible that the process of can alternatively describe a subsequent call attempt e.g. a second call attempt that follows an earlier call attempt as will now be described with respect to .

In aspects of some of the prior discussed embodiments are combined. App nominally always requests QoS at call time as described above and fails the call when the requested QoS guarantee cannot be provided by the RAN . However for a subsequent call attempt that immediately follows a call attempt that failed due to the RAN previously not being able to offer the requested QoS guarantee at call time App waits a prescribed period of time before failing the subsequent call when the requested QoS guarantee cannot be provided by the RAN . During the prescribed period of time if the requested QoS guarantee becomes available late App allows a delayed form of the subsequent original call to proceed rather than failing the subsequent call. If the requested QoS guarantee does not become available during the prescribed period App fails the subsequent call.

Referring to in B the given UE sends a message to the RAN to request QoS resources. In the example of assume that the QoS resource request of B is associated with an initial call attempt i.e. a first time the given UE has attempted to make a particular call within a threshold period of time . The QoS resource request may otherwise be configured as discussed above with respect to A of e.g. as part of a bundled call request message that also requests a traffic channel as an independent message etc. . The RAN receives the QoS resource request and denies the requested QoS resources in B e.g. as in and of . After receiving the denial of the QoS resource request the given UE fails the call but does not indicate that the call attempt has failed to a user of the given UE B. The given UE determines whether to re attempt the call B. In an example the given UE can automatically determine to re attempt the call after an initial call failure without waiting for an explicit request from the user of the given UE e.g. because the user of the given UE is not informed of the initial call failure . If the given UE determines to re attempt the call the process advances to A of .

Accordingly in the example of the process of is executed for a subsequent call attempt instead of an initial call attempt. Thus in the example of the prolonged wait period at the given UE for a QoS resource grant is only invoked after an initial call attempt failure. In another example while not shown in and or each subsequent call attempt following a second call failure based on the process of may be performed in accordance with such that the prolonged wait period is used for each such call attempt e.g. because a user of the given UE may be more concerned with setting up the call with QoS resources than setting up a call in a timely manner .

Further in an embodiment of the invention in the second QoS resource request e.g. and or any subsequent call requests of the second call attempt upon executing the process of after determining to re attempt the call in B may be associated with reduced QoS resources e.g. less stringent requirements . Alternatively the second QoS resource request may be associated with the same QoS resources as requested in the first QoS resource request.

While focus primarily upon QoS setup procedures within an EV DO or HRPD network are directed to QoS setup procedures within an LTE network or eHRPD network . In LTE networks QoS bearers with GBR GBR QoS bearers or GBR EPS bearers if specifically in LTE LTE core networks maintain QoS reservations on both the air interface at the RAN or eNodeB D and also S5 connections at the LTE core network when an associated UE is determined to transition into the RRC Connected state. each illustrate examples by which the QoS reservations at the RAN and or the LTE core network can be maintained and or modified while the UE is in RRC Connected state in association with a GBR application e.g. App and potentially even while the UE is in RRC Idle state.

Below illustrates an Always On QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer and shows how the APN information or App identifying information can be exchanged during a QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer that is not Always On . The App identifying information exchanged as shown in can be used to implement selective execution one or more of for QoS bearers associated with particular applications such as App .

Referring to corresponds to an initial procedure whereby a given UE sets up a non QoS EPS bearer. The setup of the non QoS EPS bearer begins with the given UE in an RRC Idle state after which a System Information reading operation is performed the Non Access Stratum NAS layer at the given UE initiates EPS attach and PDN connectivity procedures the given UE and the LTE core network engage in an RRC connection and context set up procedure after which the given UE is transitioned into the RRC Connected state . At this point a default EPS bearer or non GBR QoS EPS bearer is established for the given UE and an Always On S5 connection is set up for the default EPS bearer . The default EPS bearer can be used to support applications that exchange data for which QoS e.g. GBR etc. is not required such as web browsing applications Email applications and so on.

The remainder of describes setup of a GBR EPS bearer for a high priority GBR application which is denoted as App . In context with an LTE specific implementation App can correspond to any application that requires GBR QoS on an associated EPS media bearer for supporting its communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions VoIP sessions etc. and that uses a dedicated Access Point Name APN where the dedicated APN is configured to specifically identify App to external devices such as components of the LTE core network . In non LTE networks App can be supported on other types of QoS bearers.

Accordingly after 835 the given UE launches App sends a PDN Connectivity Request for App to the MME D and the MME D sends a Create Session Request e.g. configured with EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 to the P GW PCRF D D . At this point the LTE core network can initiate set up of the dedicated bearer for App s PDN connection or alternatively the application server or UE can request the dedicated GBR EPS bearer setup . In either case the P GW PCRF D D sends a Create Session Response message e.g. which can be configured as EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 Create Bearer Request EPS Bearer QoS QCI QCI or 1 GBR UL DL X kbps to the MME D which sets up the GBR EPS bearer with a GBR that is specific to App e.g. a nominal data rate such as 1 kpbs or Xkpbs 860. The MME D then delivers a Bearer Setup Request message e.g. which can be configured with Default EPS Bearer QoS QCI 5 Dedicated EPS Bearer QoS QCI QCIApp or 1 GBR UL DL XApp kbps to the eNodeB D to set up the App specific GBR and the eNodeB D allocates the GBR for App s GBR EPS bearer as requested . App s signaling bearer is setup and and App s GBR EPS media bearer is also setup and .

Turning to App in more detail App s media traffic model can be configured differently than the typical VoIP application traffic. For example App can be configured to bundle 6 Vocoder frames into a single RTP packet and to transmit media packets every 120 ms. Thus the data rate and air interface configurations required for the App media bearer can be different than a VoIP media bearer which is referenced as QCI 1 in LTE networks. So it may not be suitable to use QCI 1 conversational voice for App .

The LTE standard can reserve a QCI in the range 128 255 for certain multimedia applications e.g. VoIP applications PTT applications and can allocate GBR QoS for this QCI. The S GW D and P GW D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup or bearer setup due to x2 or 51 based handover based on the reserved QCI for App App QCI for signaling and or media or alternatively based upon QCI 1 where the GBR EPS bearer is associated with an APN that is known to be related to App so the LTE core network knows to use App s specialized QoS parameters instead of the typical QCI QoS parameters . In an example the recognition of the App specific GBR EPS bearer can be used to prompt the LTE network components e.g. such as the MME D to identify App s GBR EPS bearer and to perform actions based upon this recognition such as selectively caching the GBR parameters for the GBR EPS bearer of a particular APN for quickly bringing up S5 connections after an RRC Idle to Connected transition. The eNodeB D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup bearer setup due to x2 or S1 based handover based on the reserved App QCI to provide the requested QoS treatment. This procedure is shown in .

Referring to the given UE the eNodeB D and the MME D perform a service request procedure and the given UE delivers a PDN connectivity request for App to the MME D . Optionally an authentication procedure can be performed for the given UE with the PCRF D . The MME D delivers a Create Session Request to the S GW D for App and the S GW D delivers a Create Session Request to the P GW D for App . The P GW D and the PCRF D then engage in an IP CAN session during which the PCRF D detects the App APN and applies App QCIto the default bearer and initiates a dedicated bearer with App QCI .

Referring to the P GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The P GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the S GW D that indicates App QCI . The S GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The S GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the MME D that indicates App QCI and the MME D in turn sends a PDN Connectivity Accept Dedicated Bearer Set Request message to the eNodeB D that indicates App QCI . The MME D and the eNodeB D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCI . The GBR EPS bearer for media is then setup with App QCI and the default EPS bearer for App s signaling is setup with App QCI as shown in the signaling between 960 995 which will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with QoS setup in LTE networks.

With reference to LTE supports both UE initiated and network initiated QoS. For UE initiated requests an App client application can issue requests for additional dedicated bearer setup with a specific QCI e.g. QCI 1 or QCI for a particular PDN connection e.g. the PDN connection dedicated to App . For NW initiated QoS the P GW D can initiate the setup of an additional dedicated bearer with a specific QCI for the particular PDN connection based on the triggers from either the application server or the PCRF D. Also the P GW D can trigger the dedicated bearer setup based on pre configured subscriber QoS information retrieved from the HSS D and or upon detection of PDN connectivity request for a specific APN. In LTE the eNodeB D can only reject the EPS bearer setup request if it does not support the requested QoS e.g. QCI ARP GBR etc due to resource constraints or other reasons. Conventionally in LTE the given UE is either allocated its requested QoS e.g. the subscribed QoS level for the bearer or else the given UE has no dedicated bearer setup until the given UE or LTE network component initiates a downgraded QoS negotiation.

Referring to the App client application on the given UE transmits a request for activation of a GBR EPS bearer such as a media bearer for a call being setup for App to the MME D . For example the request of can correspond to a Request Bearer Resource Modification App GBR EPS bearer QoS QCIApp or QCI 1 . Upon receiving the activation request for the GBR EPS bearer at the LTE network components eNB S GW P GW determine whether sufficient QoS resources are available for allocation to the given UE . While not shown expressly in if sufficient QoS resources are determined to be available for supporting the GBR EPS bearer in the GBR EPS bearer is simply activated as requested. In this example assume that sufficient QoS resources are determined not to be available for activating the GBR EPS bearer in . Accordingly the GBR EPS bearer setup is denied due to insufficient QoS resources and the App client application on the given UE fails the call .

After receiving the denial of the GBR EPS bearer activation request the App client application on the given UE indicates to a user of the given UE that the call has failed and given UE determines whether to re attempt the call . In an example the App client application on the given UE can automatically determine to re attempt the call after an initial call failure without waiting for an explicit request from the user of the given UE e.g. because the user of the given UE is not informed of the initial call failure .

If the App client application on the given UE determines to re attempt the call at the App client application on the given UE transmits another request for activation of the GBR EPS bearer such as a media bearer for a call being setup for App to MME D . Upon receiving the activation request for the GBR EPS bearer at the LTE network components eNB S GW P GW again determine whether a reduced level of QoS resources are available for allocation to the given UE . For example the determination of can determine whether QCI 1 or QCIis available for reservation to the given UE whereas the determination of can determine whether some lesser QoS level is available for reservation to the given UE. If even the reduced level of QoS resources is determined to be unavailable at the LTE network component denies setup of the GBR EPS bearer due to insufficient QoS resources . However instead of simply failing the call again the client application for App permits the call to be setup using any active EPS bearer without GBR QoS .

Alternatively if the reduced level of QoS resources is determined to be available at the LTE network component grants the GBR EPS bearer with the reduced level of QoS resources and the client application for App permits the call to be setup using the activated GBR EPS bearer with the reduced QoS .

During the call the given UE can maintain a QoS monitor timer to monitor the level of QoS allocated to its EPS bearer supporting the call i.e. the reduced QoS or no QoS . When this timer expires the given UE can transmit a request to have a GBR EPS bearer setup with its initially requested QoS e.g. QCI 1 or QCI . Alternatively or in addition the LTE network component e.g. the P GW D can also maintain a QoS monitor timer for the given UE in response to the less than requested QoS being allocated to its EPS bearer supporting the call i.e. the reduced QoS or no QoS . When this timer expires the LTE network component can initiate a GBR EPS bearer to be setup with the given UE s initially requested QoS e.g. QCI 1 or QCI . Irrespective of whether the given UE s timer s expiration or the LTE network component s timer s expiration triggers the QoS modification to the EPS bearer supporting the call the QoS resources on this bearer are upgraded at e.g. to the full QoS level or an intermediate QoS level that exceeds the initially allocated QoS level from or after which the App client application on the given UE continues the call using the upgraded QoS resources .

As will be appreciated is similar in certain respects to and B. In particular through are somewhat similar to B through B of and through are somewhat similar to A through A through A.

Referring to the App client application on the given UE determines to start an App call and starts a standard timer . The LTE network component e.g. the PCRF D the P GW D or alternatively a non LTE component such as the application server detects data activity on the App EPS bearer for the given UE and determines to activate or modify the QoS resources on the App EPS bearer e.g. to assign more GBR etc. . The LTE network component e.g. the eNodeB D the S GW D and or the P GW D determines whether the additional QoS resources e.g. QCI 1 or QCI are available for allocation to the EPS bearer for the given UE and if so the QoS EPS bearer is allocated to the given UE with the additional QoS resources .

Meanwhile the App client application on the given UE monitors the timer from and determines whether the timer has expired . If the timer is determined to expire before the QoS is allocated at the App client application on the given UE does not indicate call failure to its user and instead starts a defer timer e.g. similar to A of . The App client application on the given UE monitors the defer timer from and determines whether the defer timer has also expired . If so the given UE can either proceed with the App call without QoS on a non GBR EPS bearer e.g. best effort scenario similar to or alternatively can fail the call . If QoS is allocated to the given UE before the timer and defer timer both expire the App client application on the given UE determine whether the allocated QoS corresponds to the requested QoS level e.g. QCI 1 or QCI or a reduced QoS level . While not shown in if the requested QoS level is allocated the App client application on the given UE simply proceeds with the call. If the reduced QoS level is determined to be allocated at the App client application on the given UE proceeds with the call using the allocated resources and indicates call success to its user e.g. the user thinks the given UE was allocated full QoS instead of reduced QoS .

During the call the LTE network component e.g. the P GW D or the application server can maintain a QoS monitor timer for the given UE in response to the less than requested QoS being allocated to its EPS bearer supporting the call i.e. the reduced QoS or no QoS . When this timer expires the LTE network component can initiate a GBR EPS bearer to be setup with the given UE s initially requested QoS e.g. QCI 1 or QCI as shown in where the QoS resources on this bearer are upgraded at e.g. to the full QoS level or an intermediate QoS level that exceeds the initially allocated QoS level from or after which the given UE continues the call using the upgraded QoS resources . While not shown explicitly in the given UE could also monitor its own timer to trigger a QoS resource upgrade on its EPS bearer as shown in at if UE initiated QoS is supported in the LTE network.

Referring to the application server determines that an App call is being setup between two or more UEs with at least one of the UEs served by the LTE network and starts a standard timer . The application server then requests that QoS be setup by the LTE network component for the App call on a GBR EPS bearer for each UE involved in the call. At this point except for the entities performing some of the illustrated operations being different e.g. UE or server through and through of substantially correspond to through of respectively. Accordingly a further description of has been omitted for the sake of brevity. However it is noted that certain user interface UI operations such as notifying the user of the given UE of call success or call failure at and of can be omitted in corresponding and of because the application server does not perform UI operations for the given UE s user.

As noted above is directed to a UE side best effort solution where call control resides at the given UE in a UE initiated QoS operating environment is directed to a UE side deferred call failure solution where call control resides at the given UE in a NW initiated QoS operating environment is directed to a NW side call failure before best effort solution where call control resides at the application server in a NW initiated QoS operating environment and is directed to a NW side deferred call failure solution where call control resides at the application server in a NW initiated QoS operating environment. However in the NW initiated QoS operating environment it is possible to permit the given UE to maintain call control logic even though the given UE does not control QoS such that the application server can independently perform QoS control functions on behalf of the given UE. With this in mind are similar to except that is directed to a UE side call failure before best effort QoS resource acquisition process where call control resides at the given UE but the application server retains QoS control in a NW initiated QoS operating environment in accordance with an embodiment of the invention and is directed to a UE side deferred call failure QoS resource acquisition process where call control resides at the given UE but the application server retains QoS control in a NW initiated QoS operating environment in accordance with another embodiment of the invention.

Referring to the application server transmits a request for activation of a GBR EPS bearer such as a media bearer for a call being setup for App to the MME D . Upon receiving the activation request for the GBR EPS bearer at the LTE network components eNB S GW P GW determine whether sufficient QoS resources are available for allocation to the given UE . While not shown expressly in if sufficient QoS resources are determined to be available for supporting the GBR EPS bearer in the GBR EPS bearer is simply activated as requested. In this example assume that sufficient QoS resources are determined not to be available for activating the GBR EPS bearer in . Accordingly the GBR EPS bearer setup is denied due to insufficient QoS resources and the App client application on the given UE fails the call .

After the application server determines that the call has failed at the App client application the application server determines whether to re attempt the call . In an example the application server can automatically determine to re attempt the call after an initial call failure at . If the application server determines to re attempt the call at the App application server transmits another request for activation of the GBR EPS bearer such as a media bearer for a call being setup for App to MME D . Upon receiving the activation request for the GBR EPS bearer at the LTE network components eNB S GW P GW again determine whether a reduced level of QoS resources are available for allocation to the given UE . For example the determination of can determine whether QCI 1 or QCIis available for reservation to the given UE whereas the determination of can determine whether some lesser QoS level is available for reservation to the given UE. If even the reduced level of QoS resources is determined to be unavailable at the LTE network component denies setup of the GBR EPS bearer due to insufficient QoS resources . However instead of simply failing the call again the client application for App permits the call to be setup using any active EPS bearer without GBR QoS .

Alternatively if the reduced level of QoS resources is determined to be available at the LTE network component grants the GBR EPS bearer with the reduced level of QoS resources and the client application for App permits the call to be setup using the activated GBR EPS bearer with the reduced QoS .

During the call because relates to a NW initiated QoS operating environment the application server instead of the given UE as in starts a QoS monitor timer to monitor the level of QoS allocated to its EPS bearer supporting the App call i.e. the reduced QoS or no QoS . When this timer expires the application server can transmit a request to have a GBR EPS bearer setup with its initially requested QoS e.g. QCI 1 or QCI . Alternatively or in addition the LTE network component e.g. the P GW D can also maintain a QoS monitor timer for the given UE in response to the less than requested QoS being allocated to its EPS bearer supporting the call i.e. the reduced QoS or no QoS . When this timer expires the LTE network component can initiate a GBR EPS bearer to be setup with the given UE s initially requested QoS e.g. QCI 1 or QCI . Irrespective of whether the application server timer s expiration or the LTE network component s timer s expiration triggers the QoS modification to the EPS bearer supporting the call the QoS resources on this bearer are upgraded at e.g. to the full QoS level or an intermediate QoS level that exceeds the initially allocated QoS level from or after which the App client application on the given UE continues the call using the upgraded QoS resources .

Referring to the App client application on the given UE determines that an App call is being setup between two or more UEs with at least one of the UEs served by the LTE network and starts a standard timer . The application server also determines that an App call is being setup between two or more UEs with at least one of the UEs served by the LTE network and the application server then requests that QoS be setup by the LTE network component for the App call on a GBR EPS bearer for each UE involved in the call. Thus the App client application is monitoring the QoS settings for the App call based on the timer but the application server is the entity actually requested the QoS resources to be setup for the App call. This is contrasted with the UE initiated QoS example of where the App client application both requests the QoS setup and also monitors the timer or the NW initiated QoS example of where the application server both requests the QoS setup and also monitors the timer. At this point through substantially correspond to through of respectively and through substantially correspond to through of respectively.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to 1 EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

