---

title: Methods and apparatus to identify wireless carrier performance effects
abstract: Example methods and apparatus to identify wireless carrier performance effects are disclosed. A disclosed example method includes receiving an indication of media content presentation on a wireless communication device, monitoring a wireless carrier operating parameter in response to receiving the indication of media content presentation, and monitoring the wireless communication device for a media content presentation command. The example method also includes associating the media content presentation command and the wireless carrier operating parameter with a scoring factor indicative of subscriber preferences, and generating a report including the scoring factor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185589&OS=09185589&RS=09185589
owner: THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US), LLC
number: 09185589
owner_city: Schaumburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
This patent is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 13 616 714 filed Sep. 14 2012 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Identify Wireless Carrier Performance Effects which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 550 752 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 285 218 filed Aug. 31 2009 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Identify Wireless Carrier Performance Effects all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This disclosure relates generally to audience measurement and more particularly to methods and apparatus to identify wireless carrier performance effects.

Media presentation consumption by target audience members generally includes listening to audio information and or viewing video information. Media presentations may include for example radio programs music television programs movies still images web pages advertisements video games mobile applications e.g. iPhone application s social networking applications browser applications e mail messages text messages etc. Companies and or organizations that provide one or more media presentations such as advertisers broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing and or listening experience for a target audience.

While one or more media presentation s may originate from an advertiser a broadcast network and or any other company organization having media centric interests such media presentation s may pass through a wireless service provider and or wireless carrier prior to being displayed to a target audience. Target audience members may include subscribers of the wireless service provider that own and or otherwise possess a wireless communication device such as a personal digital assistant PDA and or wireless telephone.

The example methods and apparatus described herein may be used to identify wireless carrier performance effects. Example methods and apparatus to identify wireless carrier performance effects are disclosed. A disclosed example method includes receiving an indication of media content presentation on a wireless communication device monitoring a wireless carrier operating parameter in response to receiving the indication of media content presentation and monitoring the wireless communication device for a media content presentation command. The example method also includes associating the media content presentation command and the wireless carrier operating parameter with a scoring factor indicative of subscriber preferences and generating a report including the scoring factor.

A disclosed example apparatus includes a wireless monitor interface to receive an indication of a media content control command from a wireless communication device and a data acquisition engine to acquire operating parameters associated with an instance of media content presentation. The example apparatus also includes a heuristics engine to identify a heuristic set of the media content control command and the operating parameters and a scoring engine to associate the identified heuristic set with a scoring factor.

Media centric companies and or organizations hereinafter media content providers invest significant resources when preparing media content for a target audience. Resources invested by the media content providers include for example marketing efforts to develop media content that attempts to captivate the target audience production efforts to construct media content that is visually and or audibly pleasing to the target audience and or fees provided to one or more wireless carriers e.g. a wireless service provider and or broadcast network s associated with the privilege to present such media content to the target audience. In view of one or more of the aforementioned resources invested in the media content the media content providers have a heightened interest in knowing that the media content is provided to the one or more target audience members with a threshold degree of quality.

Wireless carriers referred to herein as wireless carriers or wireless service providers operate as an intermediary content infrastructure between the media content providers having and or providing media content e.g. a movie an advertisement a web page etc. and one or more subscribers of the wireless carrier that comprise target audience members that the media content provider would like to reach with the media content. Media content provided by the media content provider may be provided via an intranet and or the Internet which the subscribers may access via the one or more resources accessible and or provided by the wireless carrier e.g. wireless cell towers relay stations etc. . Upon reaching an intranet and or the Internet via the wireless carrier resources each subscriber may consume and or otherwise experience media content provided by one or more media content providers.

Wireless carrier resources typically include one or more transceiver towers having wireless telecommunication base stations connected to one or more wireless communication devices such as cellular telephones pagers PDAs handheld wireless computers wireless gaming devices and or any other wireless communication device that may be used to receive media content from the media content providers. The one or more transceiver towers communicate with wireless communication devices to exchange information e.g. voice information data video control information etc. with a telecommunications system. Such transceiver towers are typically located in cell areas and sites within a geographic area and configured to work in connection with any wireless telecommunication standard including but not limited to Advanced Mobile Phone Systems AMPS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Global System for Mobile communications GSM systems Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems Personal Digital Communications PDC systems Personal Communication Services PCS systems Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE systems Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA and or Personal Handy phone Systems PHS . Additionally or alternatively wireless communication devices may employ any other radio based communication protocol including but not limited to a Bluetooth based communication protocol a communication protocol that conforms to any of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards 802.11x 802.11b 802.11g 802.11x WiFi and or any other suitable short range wireless communication protocol.

The media content provided by the media content providers may include but is not limited to video content e.g. television programming movies advertisements animations MPEG 2 MPEG 4 Windows Media Video WMV QuickTime Movie Real Video etc. flash video e.g. video for Adobe flash player F4V protected video for Adobe flash player F4P etc. audio content e.g. radio programming Internet radio satellite radio MPEG layer 3 Windows Media Audio WMA Real Audio audio for Adobe flash player F4A audio book for Adobe flash player F4B etc. video game content application content graphics content e.g. electronic art photos pictures etc. Internet information e.g. web pages rich site summary RSS text notifications etc. interactive media content e mail content text message content multimedia content and or any other content that may be delivered by the media content provider . The media content may include for example entertainment content educational content news advertising demographics based targeted advertising geographic based targeted advertising interest based targeted advertising etc. The media content provider may deliver the media content and or make such media content available via the Internet in compressed and or uncompressed formats and in encrypted and or unencrypted formats.

Subscribers to the wireless carrier select and or otherwise receive media content via their wireless communication device. As described above the subscribers may have access to the media content by way of systems facilities and or infrastructure provided by the wireless carrier. As a result the quality of such transmitted media content may be affected by one or more capabilities limitations of such systems facilities and or infrastructure. The media content may be provided to the subscribers via a broadcast communication which delivers the same data e.g. the same video advertisement program to all of the wireless communication devices that are within range e.g. within range of a transceiver tower to receive communication signals from the cell tower and or plurality of cell towers used by the wireless carrier to transmit the broadcast communication provided by the media content provider. On the other hand the media content may be provided to one or more subscribers via a multicast communication in which the media content is delivered to selected ones of the subscribers e.g. in response to a subscriber s selection to receive content . A subscriber s selection for the multicast communication may occur in connection with for example pay per view selections subscription based selections etc. The wireless carrier may employ one or more back channel links e.g. a return channel a reverse channel a return path etc. with the wireless devices and or the media content providers. Such back channel links may be used to exchange information between the subscriber e.g. the subscriber s wireless device related to selections and or commands e.g. start stop pause skip fast forward rewind cancel search etc. .

The methods and apparatus described herein facilitate in part monitoring of commands in connection with one or more performance parameters of the wireless device and or carrier network during a subscriber s interaction e.g. receipt with the media content. For example although the media content provider may provide transmit and or otherwise make available media content having a particular quality e.g. a particular resolution a particular display rate in frames per second fps such media content may arrive at the subscriber s wireless device at a diminished degraded and or attenuated quality. Such quality limitation may occur for example due to one or more infrastructure limitations of the wireless carrier such as channel crowding bandwidth limitations and or time of day demand based limitations. Quality limitations of the wireless carrier may differ between carriers and cause undesired video audio and or data interruptions. Undesired effects of wireless carrier infrastructure limitations may manifest as choppy video playback decreased display frame rates reduced video resolution playback quality increased buffering delays audio video synchronization issues jitter signal strength limitation s and or reduced audio quality e.g. reduced bit rate . One consequence of the inability of a wireless carrier to deliver media content in accordance with one or more quality parameter values levels etc. is that the value to the media content provider for delivering the content decreases. In other words the media content provider may have paid a monetary value to have media content displayed and or otherwise made available at an agreed upon degree of quality e.g. a predetermined video resolution quality a predetermined frame rate a threshold buffer delay duration a predetermined audio bit rate etc. to the subscribers of the wireless carrier. Substandard quality has at least the potential of creating negative subscriber impressions of the product and or service associated with the media content. A loss of profits and or sales opportunities may result when the subscriber becomes frustrated with substandard content delivery.

Each of the example wireless communication devices and includes an example wireless monitor that is configured to in part meter wireless activity of the respective subscriber. As described in further detail below the example wireless monitor monitors and acquires information e.g. values associated with one or more carrier performance parameters of the corresponding wireless carrier . Wireless carrier performance parameters may include but are not limited to a frame rate of displayed media content e.g. in fps a video quality of displayed media content e.g. a resolution an audio quality of displayed media content e.g. a bit rate in bps a buffering delay time period of the displayed media content e.g. in seconds a channel crowding value a bandwidth and or a power level between the wireless communication device and and a respective transceiver tower. The example wireless monitor also monitors subscriber activity during and or after media content is displayed on or more generally rendered presented by the respective device and and or an attempt to be displayed on or rendered by the respective device and . For example the example wireless monitor monitors and acquires subscriber selection events e.g. subscriber selections to view media content subscriber fast forward events rewind events cancel events e.g. a subscriber request to discontinue web page loading web address entry events e.g. a subscriber request to navigate to a web page and or reload events e.g. a subscriber request to reload a web page . Reload events may occur when for example the subscriber becomes frustrated with relatively long wait times for the media content e.g. a web page a video clip an audio clip etc. to be displayed.

In the illustrated example of the carrier measurement entity includes a wireless monitor interface a data acquisition engine a heuristics engine and a scoring engine . The example wireless monitor interface maintains scheduled periodic aperiodic and or manual connectivity with the example wireless monitor modules within each wireless communication device such as the example wireless communication devices and associated with the carrier A and the carrier B respectively. Data acquired by the example wireless monitor interface may be stored in tabular format to a data acquisition database as described in further detail below in connection with . While the example wireless monitor performs one or more network parameter measurements and transmits such resulting parameter values to the wireless monitor interface for storage in the data acquisition database the example data acquisition engine may perform additional data acquisition tasks via one or more test and measurement instruments located in one or more geographic locations of a carrier network infrastructure. For example one or more base stations associated with the carrier A and or the carrier B may include a base station tester such as the Agilent E7495A B Base Station Test Set to facilitate channel power measurements adjacent channel power measurements bandwidth for adjacent power channels etc. Collection of such power measurements may be accomplished via for example networked connectivity between the example data acquisition engine and one or more data acquisition devices within the carrier infrastructure such as within a base station of the carrier A . Time stamped channel power measurements may further correlate to one or more events measured by the example wireless monitor in an effort to correlate carrier performance capabilities and corresponding media content quality metrics e.g. observation of decreased frame rate parameter values when channel powers are relatively low .

The example heuristics engine identifies one or more causes for subscriber behavior based on in part media content target quality media content quality as delivered e.g. displayed rendered presented video and or audio etc. to the subscriber and or subscriber behavior during and or after the media content was presented and or attempted presentation. Advertisers media broadcasters and or other users of the example system may develop one or more heuristics matrices that identify one or more reasons for subscriber behavior during and or after media content is presented. Such heuristics matrices may be stored in an example heuristics database . is an example heuristics matrix that includes a media action column a carrier parameters column and a scoring factor column . In operation the example heuristics engine of identifies a matching action in the media action column that occurred during presentation during and or after media content was displayed to one or more subscribers. Media actions may include but are not limited to actions initiated by the subscriber e.g. play pause cancel fast forward rewind etc. interruptions due to incoming calls and or text messages and or actions caused by the carrier network infrastructure e.g. dropped media content due to channel crowding bandwidth limitations etc. .

For example a subscriber interrupting media content playback prior to completion of the media content may not by itself identify why the subscriber chose to stop the media content. However the example heuristics engine also identifies corresponding carrier parameters that occurred at or around the time at which the media content playback was ended by the subscriber. In the event that a load time e.g. buffering time of the corresponding media content was between 5 and 10 above an average and or expected load time e.g. a duration of time for which the wireless communication device buffers content over the carrier network then the example heuristics engine associates the event with a corresponding scoring factor indicative of carrier fault and or subscriber frustration. In the aforementioned example case a load time between 5 and 10 of a threshold value corresponds to an example scoring factor of 0.10 . As described in further detail below each instance of media content requested by and or presented to one or more subscribers is associated with a score based on in part one or more quality of service QoS parameters and corresponding subscriber behavior during the playback and or attempted playback of the media content e.g. video content audio content web page retrieval etc. .

The methods and apparatus described herein may be used to identify reasons why subscribers may interrupt media content prior to complete playback aggregate the scored instances of media content exposure to the subscribers to generate one or more generalized scores on a per carrier basis and allow advertisers broadcast entities and or subscribers to identify which carriers demonstrate a relatively better ability to provide wireless media services. Additionally such aggregated metrics may be calculated to identify subscriber preferences related to performance parameters which may include ranking one or more wireless carriers and or identifying a corresponding value and or lease rate for using the infrastructure of the carriers to disseminate media content from the media content providers to one or more subscribers. In other words those wireless carriers having a superior ability to provide media content to satisfy a desired quality parameter value or degree relative to a threshold representing a minimum level of acceptable quality may better justify a higher advertising rate fee as compared to those wireless carriers that fail to meet the one or more threshold quality parameter values established by the media content provider e.g. a threshold video resolution a threshold rate in fps a threshold audio quality a threshold maximum buffering load time value etc. .

In the illustrated example of in the event that a subscriber interrupts media content prior to completion of presentation of such media by attempting to reload such media content e.g. a web browser reload button press then the example heuristics engine also identifies corresponding carrier parameters during the reload attempt s . Subscriber actions of reload during for example particularly long load times may be indicative of a heightened level of subscriber frustration and or a heightened subscriber desire to retrieve the media content. Accordingly the example heuristics engine associates such events with a negative scoring factor having a greater magnitude e.g. 0.15 as compared to instances when the subscriber does not make one or more refresh attempts for the same media content. On the other hand if the subscriber is making one or more requests to reload the media content and the carrier metrics indicate that all carrier parameters meet and or exceed threshold levels then the example heuristics engine associates the event with a neutral and or positive scoring factor . Such example scenarios may occur when the poor quality and or relatively excessive load times are not the fault of the wireless carrier but instead may be due to media content provider network problems and or intranet Internet congestion. Additionally in some circumstances the subscriber does not interrupt and or cause the media content to stop by way of an express command e.g. a stop command a skip command etc. . As such the corresponding media action column scenario is identified by the heuristics engine as a situation in which media is interrupted and or ends without subscriber request and includes corresponding scoring factors based on corresponding carrier parameters that exist at that time.

The one or more media actions of the example media action column carrier metrics of the carrier metric column and the one or more scoring factors of the scoring factor column may be arranged and or stored as the example heuristics matrix in the example heuristics database . One or more users of the methods and apparatus described herein may create delete and or edit one or more entries aspects of the example heuristics matrix based on for example industry experience observed trends intuitive judgments educated guesses and or any other problem solving strategic causes and effects. The example data acquisition database and or the example heuristics database may be queried by any application programming interface API such as a structured query language SQL API. Additionally the example data acquisition database and or the example heuristics database may be implemented as mainframe databases e.g. IBM DB2 IBM Virtual Storage Access Method VSAM IBM Indexed Sequential Access Method ISAM Adabas D by Software AG etc. client server databases e.g. Oracle Informix SQL Server etc. and or PC databases e.g. Microsoft Access .

Returning to the example scoring engine applies the one or more scoring factors associated with each instance of media exposure to generate a normalized score for each wireless carrier. As described in further detail below the example scoring engine may rank each wireless carrier based on an overall ability to satisfy or exceed one or more quality thresholds and or rank each wireless carrier based on its ability to meet or exceed a particular parameter quality level e.g. a particular bandwidth parameter a particular frame rate parameter a particular audio bit rate parameter etc. .

To store media content and or other information associated with the wireless communication devices and e.g. received text messages contact telephone numbers application files etc. the example wireless monitor includes the memory . To analyze data packets used to deliver media content the example wireless monitor includes the data packet analyzer that is configured to in part extract metering information e.g. program identification information channel identification information content provider identification information base station identifier information etc. and or other information used to generate metering information from data packets used by the media content provider and or carrier e.g. the carrier A the carrier B etc. to communicate media content.

To decode and or otherwise identify the media content received from the media content provider the example wireless monitor includes the one or more media decoder s . The media decoders may include one or more video decoders one or more audio decoders one or more graphics decoders one or more video game engines one or more Internet data decoders e.g. html decoders Java decoders etc. etc. Alternatively media content identification may occur via analysis of media header information e.g. metadata indicative of author title publisher etc. . In some examples the data packet analyzer may be employed to identify media information via the header information and or the header information may be analyzed by the example data acquisition engine and or the carrier measurement entity .

To determine a location of the example wireless communication device and the example wireless monitor includes the location interface configured to for example detect and or determine the locations to which the example wireless communication devices and are moved. The location interface may be implemented using any location detection determination technology including but not limited to a GPS receiver a dead reckoning system an electronic compass technology to determine location based on triangulation techniques sensors to detect location codes or identification codes indicative of a location etc. The example wireless monitor is also provided with the application monitor to detect when media presentation software of the wireless communication devices and has been instantiated and or when media content is being presented to the subscriber s . In operation the example application monitor may detect different operations events associated with the media presentation software such as play pause skip rewind fast forward etc. Such events are stored in the example memory with corresponding time date indicators for later analysis.

In operation the example wireless monitor acquires session information and saves such information in the memory . Additionally or alternatively the session information may be forwarded to the example carrier measurement entity to build one or more content session information charts such as an example content session information data structure of . Information to populate the example content session information data structure may be obtained from data embedded by the media content provider and or information embedded in one or more header fields of transmitted carrier network data packets.

As shown in the illustrated example of the data structure includes measured content session start time information and measured content session end time information to indicate when the wireless communication device s and start and stop presenting particular media content. The example data structure also includes service provider information to indicate the identification e.g. name identification code etc. of the media content provider . Delivery type information may also be used to indicate the communication protocols and or transmission mediums used by the wireless carrier s and to deliver the media content from the provider to the communication device s and . In an example implementation options for the delivery type information may include over the air OTA terrestrial delivery e.g. FLO DVB H etc. OTA satellite delivery Internet protocol IP multicast broadcast unicast general packet radio service GPRS evolution data only EVDO etc. Content type information is used to indicate the type of media delivered such as for example video media audio media audio video media video games graphics web pages Internet data etc. Additionally or alternatively the content type information may be used to indicate whether media content was live broadcast media or one or more downloaded clip s e.g. delivered per request on demand delivery etc. .

To identify particular media programs the example content session information data structure includes media title information and corresponding expected duration information for the media of interest. In some instances the expected duration information may indicate a length of time that exceeds a difference between the measured start time information and the measured end time information . Such instances may occur when the media content was interrupted by subscriber cancellation subscriber selection of alternate media subscriber request s to reload the media and or one or more interruptions due to incoming telephone calls and or text messages.

The example data structure also includes IP time offset information to determine time offsets associated with delivery of IP packets. For example the IP time offset information may indicate the amount of time e.g. due to carrier network latency switch router hops media content provider delay etc. required for an IP network packet to propagate from a source e.g. the media content provider of to a destination e.g. the wireless communication devices and of . The IP time offset information may be used by the carrier measurement entity to generate media consumption and or exposure information associated with QoS metrics. As described above QoS metrics may also include but are not limited to signal strength information channel power information latency information channel crowding etc.

To determine a location of a wireless communication device e.g. the wireless devices and of when receiving media content the example data structure is provided with a transmitting tower base station identifier ID . The transmitting tower base station ID may include one or more cellular tower identifiers and or broadcast tower identifiers identifying one or more cellular towers and or one or more broadcast towers from which the wireless communication devices and receive media content. The example carrier measurement entity via the example wireless monitor interface may use the transmitting tower base station ID to derive a location of cell towers that transmitted media content to the wireless communication devices and and or derive an approximate location of the wireless communication device and .

Additionally the example data structure includes location information indicative of the location of the wireless communication devices and while receiving the media content. The location information may be generated using location detection devices e.g. global position system GPS devices in the wireless communication devices and using triangulation techniques involving detecting distances from one or more transceiver towers and or using any other location determination system.

To identify one or more carrier parameter values experienced by the subscriber while the media content was provided the example data structure includes any number of carrier parameters . Carrier parameters may include but are not limited to a frame rate parameter e.g. a value in fps a video resolution parameter an audio quality parameter a buffer time parameter a base station power at the start time parameter a base station power at the end time parameter an average base station power during the entire media content delivery attempt and or any other metric indicative of signal strength. In the event that the subscriber causes one or more events during the time period in which the media content is delivered and or attempted to be delivered the example data structure includes subscriber actions during delivery . As described above subscriber actions may include a request to play the media content pause the media content fast forward rewind skip reload refresh the media content and or initiate alternate media content. One or more such events may be provided in the example data structure as a comma delimited string.

While the example system to identify wireless carrier performance effects has been illustrated in one or more of the interfaces data structures elements processes GUIs and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example carrier measurement entity the example wireless communication devices and the example wireless monitor the example wireless monitor interface the example data acquisition engine the example heuristics engine the example scoring engine the example data acquisition database the example heuristics database the example communication interface the example memory the example data packet analyzer the example media decoder the example location interface the example application monitor and or the example content session information data structure of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example carrier measurement entity the example wireless communication devices and the example wireless monitor the example wireless monitor interface the example data acquisition engine the example heuristics engine the example scoring engine the example data acquisition database the example heuristics database the example communication interface the example memory the example data packet analyzer the example media decoder the example location interface the example application monitor and or the example content session information data structure may be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example carrier measurement entity the example wireless communication devices and the example wireless communicator the example wireless communicator interface the example data acquisition engine the example heuristics engine the example scoring engine the example data acquisition database the example heuristics database the example communication interface the example memory the example data packet analyzer the example media decoder the example location interface the example application monitor and or the example content session information data structure are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory a digital versatile disc DVD a compact disc CD etc. storing the firmware and or software. Further still a communication system may include interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices instead of or in addition to those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated interfaces data structures elements processes and or devices.

Alternatively some or all of the example processes of A B and may be implemented using any combination s of ASIC s PLD s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Also one or more of the example operations of A B and may instead be implemented manually or as any combination of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further many other methods of implementing the example operations of A B and may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or one or more of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example operations of A B and may be carried out sequentially and or carried out in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

The example process of begins with the example wireless communicator initiating embedded metering functions on a wireless communication device block such as on the example wireless communication devices and of . The example wireless monitor may receive metering and or other data acquisition software from the example carrier measurement entity via a wireless software transfer. Alternatively the metering software and or data acquisition software executed by the example wireless monitor may be pre installed on the wireless communication devices and so that any associated subscriber is not burdened with one or more tasks related to installing and or configuring metering software on the wireless communication devices and . The metering software and or hardware of the communication devices and may be configured to monitor all of the media content presented by the wireless carriers and and or the metering software executed by the example wireless monitor may be responsive to invocation requests of the example wireless monitor interface to begin and or cease monitoring tasks.

The example wireless monitor monitors for an instance of media content being presented on the wireless communication device block such as a movie clip an advertisement audio and or web browsing activity by the subscriber on the wireless communication device and shown in . In response to such media content presentation activity occurring block the example communication interface of the wireless monitor acquires one or more operating parameter values of the carrier e.g. the carrier A the carrier B carrier network e.g. router switch information router switch performance information etc. the wireless media device and e.g. battery strength received signal power channel channel power channel bandwidth signal strength etc. and or the media content provider block . Operating parameter values monitored acquired and or otherwise collected by the example wireless monitor include but are not limited to signal strength information bandwidth information frame rate information e.g. in fps data rate information e.g. in bps audio quality information tower base station identification information location information and or carrier name information. Operating parameter values of the carrier and or the carrier network may also be acquired by the example data acquisition engine . As described above the example data acquisition engine may be communicatively coupled to one or more test and measurement devices located at any number of points within a carrier network infrastructure. Communication to from such test and measurement devices may be realized by way of IP network addressable commands to initiate network parameter metrics such as channel power level measurements signal strength measurements network latency measurements and or data rate measurements. Additionally the example wireless monitor captures the type of media content being displayed or attempted to be displayed on the wireless communication device and block . Media content types may include but are not limited to advertisements television shows unicast streaming multicast broadcasts and or web browsing activity.

Parameter performance data related to the carrier the carrier network infrastructure and or the wireless communication device may be stored by the wireless monitor in the memory and or stored in the data acquisition database . The example communication interface of the wireless monitor monitors the wireless communication devices and for an instance of media content display completion interruption reloading and or cancellation block . Details of such changes to the media content during the display and or during the attempted display are logged by the example communication interface and saved to the memory and or the data acquisition database . Additionally such actions may be saved in the example data structure as one or more of the comma delimited subscriber actions during delivery. In some instances media content interruption is associated with a network explanation and or error code. For example if the media content was interrupted and or otherwise did not begin or complete presentation on the wireless communication device the carrier network error code s may provide information related to one or more causes. The example communication interface monitors the carrier network for one or more error codes indicative of a reason that presentation of the media content stopped prematurely such as channel crowding error codes insufficient bandwidth error codes incoming call text error codes and or timeout error codes when buffering activity surpasses one or more predetermined threshold duration values block . Without limitation one or more error codes may originate from the wireless communication devices and . For example a low battery error code may be initiated by the communication device that prevents one or more device functions e.g. prevents playing MP3 file s prevents video display s prevents data access etc. in an effort to conserve remaining battery power.

Generally speaking blocks through of the example process of include data acquisition for each of any number of participating wireless communication devices such as each of the wireless communication devices and that may operate in the example system of . Collected data may be aggregated and processed at a later time and or at periodic aperiodic scheduled and or on a manual basis to characterize the effects that wireless carrier performance has on one or more subscribers block . In other words the methods and apparatus described herein may identify carrier performance based reasons why a subscriber may make one or more decisions when experiencing media content provided via the wireless carrier. Additionally or alternatively the methods and apparatus described herein may utilize the collected data and apply one or more scoring calculations to determine in part which wireless carriers perform better or worse in view of industry standard expectations and or performance thresholds block .

However if the media content is not presented successfully block such as one or more instances when the subscriber only receives a portion of the media content or the subscriber skips further retrieval attempts for the media content and or the carrier network drops further transmission attempts of the media content due to network infrastructure limitations e.g. channel crowding excessive use burden time of day bandwidth stress etc. then the example heuristics engine determines whether the media content interruption was caused by subscriber action or carrier network action block . The example heuristics engine reviews one or more entries to the example content session information data record of to determine whether the media content interruption was caused by an incoming telephone call and or incoming text message block . Such interruptions are not typically considered to represent wireless carrier fault and or blame thus control returns to block otherwise the example heuristics engine determines whether the subscriber invoked one or more retransmission requests of the media content block . If not then the interruption of the media content did not arise by way of subscriber request and or command but rather by way of wireless carrier fault and or one or more faults related to the media content provider and or intranet Internet congestion. To further identify where to assert fault if anywhere the example heuristics engine parses the example heuristics matrix for a matching condition based on one or more wireless carrier performance parameters block . Conditions may be identified by the heuristics engine as a heuristic set which includes a combination of a media action with a corresponding carrier parameter to yield a corresponding scoring factor . For example if the subscriber did not cause the media content to stop by way of express command e.g. a stop command a skip command etc. then the corresponding media action column scenario is identified by the heuristics engine in which the media is interrupted and or otherwise stops presentation without an associated subscriber cancel request row . Additionally in an effort to associate a corresponding scoring factor with the media action the example data acquisition engine determines whether one or more wireless carrier performance parameters are outside one or more acceptable limits by comparing one or more thresholds stored in the data acquisition database to parameter values stored in the example content session information data record . In the event that for example the wireless carrier had a parameter value e.g. a latency value that exceeded a corresponding threshold value by no more than 5 see of then the heuristics engine associates the wireless carrier s media content event with a negative scoring factor of 0.15 see of block . Control returns to block to determine if there are additional mobile identification numbers to evaluate.

Returning to block in the event that the subscriber is the cause of the media content stoppage due to for example a retransmission request then the example heuristics engine identifies a corresponding media action see row of and the example data acquisition engine parses the example content session information data record for evidence that a wireless carrier parameter was exceeded at the time block . If so then the example heuristics engine may further evaluate what the subscriber did to a greater degree of precision in an effort to ascertain a relative level of subscriber frustration block . More specifically the example heuristics engine identifies whether the subscriber when interrupting and or causing the media content to stop requested a retransmission of the same media content e.g. a first media content sample or alternate media content e.g. a second media content sample block . In the event that the subscriber made one or more requests to retrieve and or otherwise obtain the same media content again a higher likelihood of subscriber frustration and or agitation exists block . Such a situation directs the heuristics engine to identify a corresponding scoring factor with the media action category associated with row of . Briefly the scoring factors associated with media action category of row which is a subscriber caused transmission cessation event are lower than those scoring factors associated with media action category of row which illustrates a subscriber s demonstrated determination to obtain the same media content. Control advances to block to match the identified combination of the media action and the carrier metric with a corresponding scoring factor .

In the event that the subscriber makes a retransmission request block but there were no associated wireless carrier parameter values exceeded block the example heuristics engine identifies whether the subscriber s retransmission request was for the same media content or alternate media content block . In either situation the wireless carrier has no fault because the carrier parameter values were at or better than one or more parameter value thresholds of an expected QoS e.g. one or more QoS parameter thresholds agreed upon via contractual agreement between the media content provider and the wireless carrier . At least two potential circumstances may explain why a subscriber made one or more retransmission requests despite the fact that the wireless carrier parameter thresholds met expectations. For example a subscriber may have been bored with the media content and or disinterested in the media content block . Such a circumstance may allow the media content provider to consider whether the media content achieves one or more expected objectives at captivating a target audience and or entertaining the target audience. For instance the media content provider may log a number of instances in which a subscriber selects skips and or navigates via their wireless device for alternate media content when there are no issues with the wireless carrier s ability to maintain expected parameter values e.g. expected data rates expected video resolution expected buffering delays etc. .

Another reason that the subscriber made one or more retransmission requests despite the fact that the wireless carrier parameter thresholds met expectations may be that network congestion occurs at one or more network locations that precede the wireless carrier s network infrastructure. In other words any failure to provide the subscriber with requested media content may be attributed to the media content provider and or Internet congestion outside the control of the wireless carrier block . Control advances to block to match the identified combination of the media action and the carrier metric with a corresponding scoring factor . In some instances the corresponding scoring factor may credit the wireless carrier when one or more operating parameters exceed agreed upon thresholds thereby indicating a better ability to satisfy subscriber needs and or expectations for data voice and or video services.

Returning to block if the subscriber does not interrupt and or cause the media content to stop the example data acquisition engine identifies whether one or more operating parameters of the wireless carrier has been exceeded block as shown in . If not then the example heuristics engine selects a scoring factor based on the fact that the wireless carrier did not cause the interrupted and or stopped media content block . Instead such display of media content may be attributed to general Internet congestion and or one or more intranet and or infrastructure limitations on behalf of the media content provider. In some instances the example heuristics engine may select a scoring factor having a positive value to represent meeting or exceeding a media presentation quality requirement operating parameter s if such operating parameter s meet and or exceed one or more established thresholds. However in the event that the wireless carrier has been identified as exceeding one or more operating parameters block the example heuristics engine determines whether the subscriber has made one or more retransmission requests block . Generally speaking a subscriber that does not invoke one or more retransmission requests is deemed by the example heuristics engine as having a relatively mild degree of frustration with their wireless communication device and or wireless service provider and an associated scoring factor is identified block . For those subscribers that do make one or more retransmission requests block the example heuristics engine further identifies whether such retransmission requests were for the same or alternate media content block . Subscribers that select alternate media in response to a failed prior attempt block may also experience a relatively moderate degree of frustration which is reflected in a corresponding applied scoring factor by the example heuristics engine . On the other hand subscribers that select the same media for retransmission in response to a failed prior attempt block exhibit a greater determination to retrieve the media content thereby indicating a greater degree of frustration block . The example heuristics engine takes such elevated likelihood of subscriber agitation into consideration when identifying a corresponding scoring factor from the example heuristics matrix of .

The example process begins with the example communication interface waiting for an occurrence of advertisement reception block . When an advertisement is detected by the example communication interface the example wireless monitor via the example communication interface the example data packet analyzer and or the example application monitor detects whether the advertisement is presented to the subscriber within one or more a frame rate limits block e.g. threshold limit value s . If not the example wireless monitor logs records an instance of advertisement impression failure block but continues to monitor the advertisement display for one or more additional carrier performance parameters of interest. The example wireless monitor detects whether the advertisement is presented to the subscriber within a resolution limit block and records an instance of advertisement impression failure block in the event that the wireless carrier displays the advertisement outside such threshold limits. In the event that the advertisement is presented without interruption block such as without buffering delays the example wireless communicator also determines whether the advertisement is fully displayed to completion block . If so an instance of advertising impression success is logged recorded saved by the example wireless monitor block .

However if the advertisement is interrupted during the display attempt block the example wireless monitor determines whether such an interruption was due to subscriber action block such as a pause skip and or subscriber cancel request. If so then the example wireless monitor does not apply fault by way of recording an impression failure but rather allows the example process to advance to block . In the event that the subscriber did not cause the advertisement interruption during the presentation attempt block then the interruption fault e.g. excessive buffering delay s may be due to the wireless carrier Internet congestion and or the media content provider. To resolve whether the wireless carrier is at fault the example wireless monitor and or the data acquisition engine determine whether the wireless carrier has exceeded any operating parameters block . If not then fault is undetermined block otherwise an instance of advertisement impression failure is recorded block .

The example wireless monitor returns to block to wait for one or more additional instances of an advertisement presentation on the wireless communication device s and block unless a request to generate a report is invoked. Report requests may be invoked to generate an aggregated list of advertisement impressions on a periodic aperiodic scheduled and or manual basis block .

Each scoring parameter of interest includes a corresponding count value and a corresponding aggregate score value . As described above the count values such as a count value for carrier A a count value for carrier B and a count value for carrier C may be derived from the example process of . Also described above the aggregate score values such as an aggregate parameter score for the carrier A an aggregate parameter score for the carrier B and an aggregate score for carrier C may be derived from the example process of B and the matching scoring factors identified from one or more matching media action s and carrier metrics of . As shown in the example report of some scoring parameters are not associated with an aggregate score value n a but are instead metrics related to a raw count value. Each example report may be generated by the example carrier measurement entity on a periodic basis aperiodic basis scheduled basis and or manual basis. In an effort to identify one or more trends of each carrier of interest prior generated reports may be saved with a time date indicator.

In the illustrated example of the report aggregate score value provides a normalized value for a given time period for each carrier of interest and or and a corresponding scoring parameter . Each normalized aggregate score value is calculated based on any number of media content display instances on wireless communication devices for each respective wireless carrier and adjusted normalized to fit within boundary values between zero and one. For instance higher normalized scoring values shown in the illustrated example report of may be indicative of a carrier having a better relative ability to meet parameter limits and or values e.g. that wireless carrier received fewer negative scoring factor values during a given time period of interest than other wireless carriers . Additionally because each scoring factor identified during the example process of is based on in part subscriber action s in response to a given set of wireless parameters present during a media content display instance such resulting aggregate score values are indicative of a degree of subscriber frustration.

The processor platform P of the example of includes at least one general purpose programmable processor P. The processor P executes coded instructions P and or P present in main memory of the processor P e.g. within a RAM P and or a ROM P . The processor P may be any type of processing unit such as a processor core a processor and or a microcontroller. The processor P may execute among other things the example processes of A B and to implement the example methods and apparatus described herein.

The processor P is in communication with the main memory including a ROM P and or the RAM P via a bus P. The RAM P may be implemented by dynamic random access memory DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM and or any other type of RAM device and ROM may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory P and the memory P may be controlled by a memory controller not shown . The example memory P may be used to implement the example heuristics database the example data acquisition database and or the example memory of .

The processor platform P also includes an interface circuit P. The interface circuit P may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output etc. One or more input devices P and one or more output devices P are connected to the interface circuit P.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

