---

title: System and method to promote a publication
abstract: A method and a system to promote a publication are provided. In example embodiments, data is received from a user that is used to create a publication for placement on a networked-based system. An indication to promote the publication on the networked-based system is received. A user interface through which the user selects an option to promote the publication on the network-based system is presented. The publication is published on the network-based system, whereby the publication is promoted based on the option selected to promote the publication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454774&OS=09454774&RS=09454774
owner: PayPal, Inc.
number: 09454774
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130426
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 171 057 filed Jun. 28 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 643 577 filed Dec. 21 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 803 113 filed May 24 2006 the benefit of priority of each of which is claimed hereby and each of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of network based data systems and in one specific example to a method and system of promoting a publication.

In electronic marketplace applications promotions often entice users to make a purchase that they otherwise may not. Further promotions often entice users to try a product or service that they might not otherwise try. In many cases the users try the product or service and become loyal consumers thereby increasing revenue for the electronic marketplace.

Often there are many promotions available to a user at any given time. When the user has the option to pick and choose from a set of many promotions the selection process is time consuming and potentially confusing. Some of the promotions may not be relevant to a particular user and the user takes additional time to sort through the promotions to determine which ones are relevant. For users that have many purchases to make for instance the time it takes to sort through the promotions may be too long and the user may lose interest in the current purchase. Also if there are too many promotions the user may feel overwhelmed by the experience or perhaps confused by apparent conflicting or overlapping offers and lose interest in the current purchase. In these instances the promotions may actually negatively impact revenue for the electronic marketplace due to the reduced potential purchases. The user also may be discouraged from purchasing from this site in the future due to the length of time the process took.

Further promotions are often applied consistently for each eligible user. However users that would have made a particular purchase regardless of the associated promotion yields a promotion with a potential negative revenue impact.

A method and a system to promote a publication are provided. In example embodiments data is received from a user that is used to create a publication for placement on a networked based system. An indication to promote the publication on the networked based system is received. A user interface through which the user selects an option to promote the publication on the network based system is presented. The publication is published on the network based system whereby the publication is promoted based on the option selected to promote the publication.

An interface may provide an option to the user to select the promotion. The promotion may include a discount associated with the purchase. When the user selects the promotion a discount associated with the promotion is accounted for concurrently with the purchase at the point of sale.

In the feature promotions discounts are offered in substantial real time to a user e.g. a seller on an electronic marketplace system who is currently placing a listing on the electronic marketplace system. The discount offered to the user may be for an upgrade feature to promote the listing on the electronic marketplace system.

The preliminary selection of the purchase may include a listing attribute such as listing category. The listing attribute may also simply be the user logging on to the system for example. The purchase may be associated with a listing on a network based commerce system and or associated with a product offered on any electronic marketplace system.

An analysis module analyzes a rule condition associated with each promotion to determine eligibility of a user for a particular promotion and or to filter and prioritize potential promotions to offer to the user. The analysis module may determine which of many promotions are the optimal ones to offer to the user while not offering too many promotions so that the user is less likely to be confused distracted or overwhelmed by the process. In the case where there are apparent conflicting or overlapping promotions the analysis module may determine the optimal or higher priority promotion and just display that one or those ones to the user to the exclusion of the other promotions. Further promotions that are not relevant to the user may also be filtered by the analysis module again to not distract the user and to keep the user moving forward in the purchase process i.e. placing a listing on the electronic marketplace .

Eligibility for a particular promotion may be determined by the analysis module in real time as the user is listing on the system for instance. The eligible promotions are analyzed and displayed as part of the listing process and generally displayed before the user loses interest in the purchase or becomes impatient with the process.

Every promotion may not be offered to every user. Again the analysis module filters promotions that are conflicting. In addition the analysis module may filter promotions for products the user may already regularly purchase. These promotions are filtered because they may translate directly into lost revenue during the promotional period.

For these reasons the process is streamlined with the analysis module in keeping with a goal of moving users forward in the purchasing process and leaving the users with a desire to purchase again via the electronic marketplace.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

The client machines including network based device s may include a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a television television cable a telephone with a web browser a facsimile machine a printer a pager and or a personal trusted device. The device may include a card such as a smart card a magnetic card and or a key card. The device may include a telephone or any device capable of Short Messaging Service SMS messaging instant messaging IM multimedia messaging service MMS messaging and or generating audio tones such as dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones. The device may be browser enabled. The device may engage in an interactive message and or open communication session such as SMS IM electronic mail xHTML Wireless Application Protocol WAP web interactive voice response IVR and or other mobile interfaces. The interactive messaging or open communication session may involve multiple technology modalities e.g. the client user may engage the system via SMS and receive a responsive communication from an IVR Server or as an SMS with an embedded hyperlinked URL directing the client user s device to a WAP or web page. A hyperlinked URL may be delivered directly to the device from the application server s and may be used to access a web site or a microbrowser such as a WAP site. The device may enable mobile videophone communications digital television signals and or digital radio signals. The device may include a receiver to receive near field communications as described in more detail herein. The scanner device may include a bar code reader scanner a Radio Frequency Interface System RFIS reader and or a symbol reader scanner.

Turning specifically to the network based system an Application Program Interface API server a Messaging Service MS Gateway Server and a web server may be coupled to and may provide programmatic MS and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The devices may use one or more of these interfaces to access the application server s .

The application server s may host one or more marketplace application s and one or more payment application s . The application server s are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present subject matter is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The system and the various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities. In this example the device may be directly connected to the marketplace application s without using the network . The electronic system may be any store having a database with rule conditions for example www.walmart.com service mark of Wal Mart Stores Inc. or www.llbean.com service mark of L. L. Bean Inc. .

The client devices may access the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server via the programmatic interface supported by the API server and or via the MS Interface supported by the MS Gateway Server .

The device and or may be used by the user to publish their listings on the marketplace application s of the network based system . The web and programmatic interfaces may be considered the point of sale when the user seller publishes lists their listings on the electronic marketplace.

The point of sale may also be a physical location where a marketplace transaction occurs. Wherever a product or service may be sold the product or service may be sold where a point of sale system is in use.

The web interface may include a web browser or any microbrowser such as xHTML or WAP. Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the application server s via the programmatic interface provided by the API server and or the web server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

In an additional embodiment an application supported by one or more applications of the application server s may be downloadable to the network based device. The device s may host the interface associated with the one or more applications of the application server s . The interface on the device may be an API interface an MS interface a web interface and or another other appropriate communication interface. Consumer wireless device platforms such as Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME J2SE and J2EE allow developers to use Java and a wireless toolkit to create applications and programs for the device . The J2ME interface may include an application programming interface API for the device. The application of the programmatic client may also access the Internet using for example Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW .

The device application executed on the client machine may access the application server s via the web interface of the web server. The application may be selected on the device and the Internet may be launched in a background. The application may additionally or alternatively access the server s via the MS interface of the MS Gateway server and or via the programmatic interface of the API server . In an embodiment the downloaded application described herein may include the device application .

The application s may have access to the database having for example the personal user account information through for example the database server s . The web client the device application and or the programmatic client may operate a program supported by the one or more database server s .

The network may include a mobile telephone network a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireline telephone network a wireless local area network wireless LAN or WLAN a wireless Metropolitan Area Network MAN and or a wireless personal area network PAN e.g. a Bluetooth network . Other network based technologies that may be used to connect include PON VSAT satellite Micro impulse Radar Radio Frequency identification RFID UltraWide Band and or Infrared. The network based device may connect to the web using mobile internet exchange e.g. Wireless Application Protocol WAP and or Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP .

The marketplace application s may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to client users such as a buyer and or to third parties such as sellers or vendors who access the system . The marketplace applications may provide a number of offering mechanisms and price setting mechanisms whereby a seller may list goods or services for sale a seller may promote their offers a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services or to donate and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and listing selling features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Navigation of the networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via the networked system . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose California may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

To this end the marketplace applications are shown to include at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding. The auction format offer in any format may be published in any virtual or physical marketplace medium and may be considered the point of sale for the commerce transaction between a seller and a buyer.

Personalization applications allow users of the networked system to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further the personalization application s may enable a third party to personalize products and other aspects of their interactions with the system and other parties or to provide other information such as relevant business information about themselves.

The marketplace applications may include one or more internationalization applications . In one embodiment the network based system may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the system may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The networked system may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by the networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers.

Reputation applications allow users that transact utilizing the networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

In order to make listings available via the networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible the marketplace applications may include one or more imaging applications utilizing which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may generally pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

The marketplace applications may include one or more offer creation applications . The offer creation applications allow sellers conveniently to author products pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the system . Offer management applications allow sellers to manage offers such as goods services or donation opportunities. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of products the management of such products may present a challenge. The offer management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto reproduct inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such products. One or more post offer management applications also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post offer. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post offer management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

The dispute resolution application s may provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the networked system . The fraud prevention application s may implement various fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the system . The fraud prevention application s may prevent fraud with respect to the third party and or the client user in relation to any part of the request payment information flows and or request fulfillment. Fraud may occur with respect to unauthorized use of financial instruments non delivery of goods and abuse of personal information.

The application server s may include messaging applications . The messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to client users and third parties of the network based system . Such messages for example advise client users regarding the status of products e.g. providing out of stock or outbid notices to client users . Third parties may be notified of a product order payment confirmation and or shipment information. Respective messaging applications may utilize any one have a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the networked system . The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The network based system itself or one or more parties that transact via the system may operate loyalty programs and other types of promotions that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer client user may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller third party and may be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The loyalty promotions applications may include an example promotion application that offers a promotion to entice seller users in real time while the seller user is listing their item or service on the network based commerce system. The promotion s purpose includes compelling seller users to list more frequently or always list with the network based commerce system offering the promotion. In addition the purpose includes offering the seller user an additional feature to buy to generate revenue for the network based commerce system.

Promotion of listing upgrades and the various listing formats may be an effective vehicle to drive both adoption and revenue. The promotions are targeted based on a variety of user e.g. a seller on the electronic marketplace and listing characteristics during a listing flow i.e. purchase process . Further this promotion type may keep revenue from being lost by non targeted promotions.

In the feature promotions discounts are offered in real time to the user on upgrade features for a listing while the user is listing with the system . For example the discount is offered during the time that the user is listing on the marketplace as opposed to being issued as a credit at a later time. The features include selling features that prominently display publications i.e. seller listings on the system .

There are several types of discounts for example a discounted feature fee e.g. feature fee for Bold feature is 0.75 a discount amount off from base price e.g. feature fee for Bold feature is discounted by 0.20 where the actual charge may be 1.00 0.20 0.80 and a discount percent off from base price e.g. feature fee for Bold feature is discounted by 15 where the actual charge may be 1.00 0.15 0.85 .

The promotions may associated with applicable purchases e.g. listings on the system wherein the listings are in auction format fixed price format stores format and or advertising format.

Discounts associated with the promotions are given during the listing process while the user seller is listing the publication. In this embodiment because the discount is offered immediately a credit associated with the discount is not given although in other embodiments a credit may be given. The promotions may be offered to the user seller in real time or dynamically based on user seller input during the listing flow to target particular users or particular listings. Because the process is dynamic the system may not pull lists of users to target market in some embodiments. The users dynamically qualify as they begin the listing process. The discounted price for the promotion may also be dynamic based on selected promotions.

Promotions the seller is qualified for are displayed to user seller and the user seller can select or ignore the promotion. If the seller does not qualify for a promotion none are presented. The promotions may be pre announced before the user begins a listing process via multiple channels email and Real time Messaging to change user behavior patterns. The promotions also may be surprise in session promotions to cross sell and up sell features.

Site wide promotions or users targeted by list may also be used with real time promotions. For example the analysis module lists these promotions along with other promotions in the selection for the user during the listing. In an example 2 promotions are available to the user 1 free bold and 2 off bold gallery. An analysis module or an algorithm of the loyalty promotion application may determine to offer both to seller and let the seller decide which one to take or may just offer one of the two.

The analysis module may eliminate duplicate promotions filter out conflicting promotions prioritize the remaining promotions and returns at least one optimal promotion to the seller user. The analysis module may receive rule conditions from a rules table listing attributes from a table and user attributes from a table as input for determination of promotions published to the user in real time while the user is listing their item or service on the system . The analysis module outputs the rule conditions that the current user qualifies for as well as the associated promotion information. This information is displayed in real time to the user at the client side as the user is listing. The user makes a selection that may or may not include the promotion.

The rules table and associated analysis module offers the flexibility to add remove and or modify promotions without incurring additional development costs because changes to promotions may be made simply by modifying the rules table.

A user attributes table contains a record for each registered user of the networked system . A user may operate as a seller a buyer or both within the networked system . In one example embodiment a buyer may be a user that has accumulated value e.g. commercial or proprietary currency and is accordingly able to exchange the accumulated value for items that are offered for sale by the networked system . The user attribute may be selected from a group including number of feedbacks obtained positive feedback percentage verifiable street address on file time on file length of time associated country date of first listing date of last listing total number of listings and frequency of listing total number of listings that sold date last used PayPal date a particular feature was last used and total number of times a particular feature was used.

The tables also include a listings or items table in which are maintained item records for goods and services that are available to be or have been transacted via the networked system . Each item record within the items table may furthermore be linked to one or more user records within the user table so as to associate a seller and one or more actual or potential buyers with each item record.

A transaction table contains a record for each transaction e.g. a purchase or sale transaction pertaining to items for which records exist within the items table . In addition to transactions taking place between users on the system the transaction table may include a record for the specific transaction e.g. a purchase transaction under consideration in the analysis module . The transaction table may include information such as the user the category or other listing features status price paid date and other transaction related information.

An order table is populated with order records each order record being associated with an order. Each order in turn may be associated with one or more transactions for which records exist within the transaction table .

Bid records within a bids table each relate to a bid received at the networked system in connection with an auction format listing supported by an auction application . A feedback table is utilized by one or more reputation applications in one example embodiment to construct and maintain reputation information concerning users. A history table maintains a history of transactions to which a user has been a party. One or more product attributes tables record attribute information pertaining to items for which records exist within the items table . Considering just a single example of such an attribute the attributes tables may indicate a currency attribute associated with a particular item the currency attribute identifying the currency of a price for the relevant item as specified by a seller.

The tables may include one or more listing attributes tables . The listing attributes tables record attributes of a listing and or a publication including site country ID location ID format category PayPal accepted shipping instructions which listing selling features are selected catalog based product ID item return policy starting price fixed price amount reserve price quantity of items for listing currency selected for listing number of photos item sequence number item duration item re listed item listed in 2nd category application ID item return policy listing tool used and user login.

The tables may include one or more rules tables listing the rule conditions used by the analysis module . Example rule conditions include but are not limited to If the user is listing from TurboLister offer 2.00 off insertion fees if the user is listing through a 3rd party tool offer 5 off insertion fees offer users Gallery Bold Highlight for 2.00 offer new users Subtitle and Bold for free if this is a first time lister offer them insertion fees for free if this user has never used Bold offer 45 discount if user lists in the Books category then offer 2.00 off the price of premium package if user lists with Fixed Price Format in the Women s clothing category then offer Penny Gallery Day PGD or First Three Listings Free including Gallery or 0.05 Subtitle if seller has never used Bold feature then this feature is offered for free to seller for this listing if seller has never used Bold or Gallery feature then these listing selling features are offered for a substantial discount 2 for 1 sale etc. if item is being relisted then offer 50 off insertion fee if then rule condition if the user selects Bold then offer Highlight for free if user selects PayPal offer Gallery Featured for 5.00 offer Free listing day FLD for items with a starting bid between 25.00 49.99 if the items has a starting bid is 60 it may not qualify for the promotion if the user lists the item in their Store for 60 days offer 30 off Bold and offer discounted Insertion Fees varying from 0.30 to 4.80 for example depending upon listing price and category.

For counter like behavior various rule conditions may be used. For example when the user seller is new to the system certain feature fees may be waived. Some examples include the following for cumulative listings 0 the first 3 listings insertion feature fee 0 for cumulative Gallery feature use 0 the Gallery feature fee 0 for cumulative Subtitle feature use 0 and Cumulative Gallery feature use 1 the Subtitle feature fee 0 for cumulative Border feature use 0 cumulative listings 5 Border feature fee 50 off for category Apparel Collectibles or Jewelry the Picture Pack Feature fee 50 off for cumulative listings 0 and Cumulative listings25 the cumulative premium package use 0 the premium package feature fee 50 off If the user cannot select the feature because they are ineligible then the BASE PRICE may be displayed and the user may not be aware of the promotion at all. The premium package feature may be 19.95 for those users with an amount of feedback ratings of 10 or more. If user has 

The tables may include one or more features tables . The features tables record features of listings that the user may select or purchase including title description t d pictures details p d subtitle fixed price amount reserve price amount 10 day listing schedule listing gallery gallery featured eps 2 12 pictures supersize picture show picture pack 1 12 pictures supersize picture show gallery listing designer bold border highlight premium package homepage featured gift services 10 day listing motors homepage featured includes gallery featured icon and a professional package bold border highlight premium package .

Once the seller has selected the promotions the Fee Calculation module computes the listing fees and displays them to the user. The user then has an opportunity to review the fees and decide whether to submit or cancel their listing.

Example single feature rule conditions recorded on the rules table are If then and If then . In the first example the condition is based on the user attribute and in the second example the condition is based on the listing attribute. Example Feature Bundle includes If then and If then .

At determine optimal single feature promotions. Optimal may include a best price for the user or the optimal promotion for the system.

At query whether there are conflicting single feature promotions in particular conflicting apparent rule conditions as described in more detail below. If there is a conflict then proceed to determination . If no conflicts then proceed to sort .

At determine the highest priority optimal single feature promotions when there are conflicting single feature promotions.

At in order of bundle priority keep any bundle that was pre announced and has no conflict with the features already selected at .

At eliminate any bundle from display that either a has overlap with a single feature that has already been selected at or b has overlap with a previously selected bundle.

At the process ends when the list of promotions is forwarded to the user interface for display to the qualified seller user . The promotions are displayed on the listing flow. The seller has the option to select any promotion they want or to ignore them.

The analysis module determines if the user is qualified to receive a promotion based on seller and or listing attributes. The module may have the following rule conditions Single feature takes precedence over feature bundle of conflicting singles keep single with optimal price if multiple single promotion for same feature with same price then keep promotion with higher priority sort features and bundles by priority keep pre announced promotion that does not conflict with single feature promotion exclude bundle with conflict to single exclude bundle with conflict with another bundle and use priority for case where more than one promotion for the same single feature with the same promotional price is available.

If there is no overlap conflict between a set of promotions the user should receive each promotion that applies. In the case of conflicting promotions e.g. the same feature appears in two promotions that the user qualifies for the analysis module is used to resolve the conflict in real time while the user is listing. The conflict may be defined as follows the analysis module evaluates the THEN clause. The rule conditions may be examined at the following levels Rule conditions within the same territory e.g. U.S. territory rule conditions within a Territory vs. Language level rule conditions for the appropriate language e.g. U.S. territory vs. English language rule conditions within a Territory vs. Vertical level rule conditions e.g. U.S. territory vs. Vertical and rule conditions at a Language level vs. Vertical level rule conditions e.g. French language rule conditions vs. vertical rule conditions .

In an example there is a conflict two promotions are found for the same single feature The price in one Single Feature promotion is greater than or equal to the price in the other Single Feature promotion or it may be inconclusive whether one single feature promotion is more expensive than the other e.g. B 10 off vs. B 0.05 discount . In another set of conflicts two or more Feature Bundle promotions are found where there is overlap in any of the features in the bundle B Bold G Gallery where B 0.15 G 0.90 G H wherein G 0.85 H 2.50 . In another example conflict two or more promotions are found where there is conflict between a feature in a Feature Bundle and the same feature in a Single Feature promotion and the price of the feature in the Single Feature promotion is greater than or equal to the price of the same feature in the Feature Bundle Promotion or it may be inconclusive if one feature is more expensive than the other e.g. B bold 0.40 off base price B G is offered at for 1.05 where B 0.15 and G 0.90 B 0.10 G 0.95 B G for 1.05 where B 0.15 and G 0.90 B 50 G 0.75 B G for 1.05 where B 0.15 and G 0.90. The analysis module may solve these conflicts in real time based on actual user selections.

In an example if the seller used the bold feature less than 5 times and they are re listing their item today then they may be offered Bold for off. In this example the promotion includes two criteria and one feature fee reduction. The rules table of the database does not limit the number of criteria or the number of feature fee reductions thus the promotion may become quite complex making the evaluation difficult and manual evaluation almost impossible. The algorithms by themselves are challenging but to have these algorithms execute in real time while the user seller is on the site submitting their listing adds to the challenge. The algorithm response times are minimized while the accuracy is maximized for a user experience of the highest possible quality.

In another example items that have the titles featured in bold may sell for at least 25 more on average as compared with similar items that do not have bold titles. Users optimize their profits if the cost for the bold ex 1 for Bold is less than the 25 price increase e.g. sell their item for at least 4 to make the purchase of the bold feature worth it . Once users realize that the features benefit them they may more frequently use that feature which may in turn increase revenue for the electronic system both in purchase of the features at the front end and in the increased final value fee. Users may be more successful in their own featured sales through the use of targeted promotions of features that can impact the seller s conversion rate. Increased success may more likely translate into an increase in continued usage by the user.

While the criteria of promotion conditions themselves may increase in complexity due to the availability of the algorithm the volume of promotions may also increase significantly. Promotions may be offered based on criteria or conditions such as characteristics of the seller or characteristics of their listing which are objective and achievable by each user equally.

The target for promotions may be infrequent sellers or sellers that do not use any features regularly or just use a certain feature regularly. The user seller may find that the features do help promote and sell their item and sell their items faster with more bids and thus with a higher sale price. The promotions may also drive a trial of features that the user does not otherwise use. Permanent revenue for the electronic marketplace may be created by an adoption lift though the changed listing behavior of user sellers.

The algorithm or analysis module may also be considered smart in that the algorithm may anticipate feature bundles to offer the user in a personalized bundle package because of known features the user has selected or is likely to select. Because a user may be thinking about fees and saving money while listing they may be inclined to choose a personalized bundle that offers them a discount.

Promotion Success Analysis may be conducted by ad hoc queries such as number of promotions qualified shown and accepted for seller feature adoption rate before during and after a promotion revenue per promotion by listing and feature promotion tracking number of sessions qualified shown and accepted number of items qualified shown and accepted promotion history and list of promotions by site including category condition and feature s being promoted.

Users may revise a listing in the instance for example where no bids have yet been made on the listing from potential buyers. Users may qualify for a promotion on features in the instance where they originally qualified for the original promotions where they currently qualify for the original promotions and or where they qualify for current promotions. In some scenarios if the seller user did not qualify during the original listing then they do not qualify just because they are revising their listing. In another scenario if a seller qualified for a promotion at the time of listing but did not select the promotion they may qualify for the promotion when revising the listing if the promotion is still active. However the seller user may not be offered the promotion if the promotion has since expired. In yet another scenario if the promotion was inactive at the time the listing was originally placed but becomes active at the time of relisting the seller user may not be shown the promotion. The promotion qualification may be determined by the seller profile obtained during the original listing session.

Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized.

Thus a method and system to publish a promotion at a point of sale have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The description includes terms such as up down upper lower first second etc. that are used for descriptive purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting. The elements materials geometries dimensions and sequence of operations may all be varied to suit particular applications. Parts of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. While the examples of dimensions and ranges are considered typical the various embodiments are not limited to such dimensions or ranges.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.74 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In the Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

