---

title: Electronic device having input control application
abstract: An electronic device having an input control application is disclosed. The input control application is used for enabling the electronic device to execute the following actions: obtaining a member group comprising members lined up orderly and a member as a selection member; pressing a key to generate a first signal for excluding members after the selection member, then determining if only one member left in the member group, if “No”, determining the member of the member group in the middle as the new selection member, if “Yes”, executing the input operation; pressing another key to generate a second signal for excluding the members before the current selection member, then determining if only one last member in the current member group, if No”, determining the member of the member group in the middle as the new selection member, if “Yes”, executing the input operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09116549&OS=09116549&RS=09116549
owner: 
number: 09116549
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130816
---
The present invention relates to an electronic device having mechanisms for inputting texts and controlling a cursor in particular relates to an electronic device used for inputting texts and controlling cursor movement with small number of keys.

As a result of design miniaturization compact electronic devices such as a smart phone a MP3 MP4 player an event data recorder and a GPS usually provide a small number of keys for performing input to users which is inconvenient to user. It is desired in the market to provide an electronic device using an innovative input method which allows users to input texts or move a cursor with a small number of keys.

The present invention provides an electronic device comprises a processing unit a screen an input unit and a storage unit. The storage unit has an input control application. The input unit is a keypad. The processing unit receives signals generated by the input unit and executing actions according to the input control application. The actions comprising obtaining a member group the member group comprising members lined up orderly and one of the members is a selection member when the signal is a first signal excludes the members after the current selection member then determining if there is only one last member in the current member group if the determining result is No determining the member of the member group which is lined up in the middle or before the middle or after the middle as the new selection member if the determining result is Yes executing an input operation when the signal is a second signal excludes the members before the current selection member then determining if there is only one last member in the current member group if the determining result is No determining the member of the member group which is lined up in the middle or before the middle or after the middle as the new selection member if the determining result is Yes executing an input operation. Preferably the above mentioned input operation comprises entering the last member in the editing column on the screen.

The method of the present invention is used for inputting characters such as numbers English letters Mandarin Phonetic Symbols or punctuation marks in the electronic device. With minor changes the method of the present invention is applicable for controlling the left right up down movements of the cursor. The control mechanism only requires operations with a few keys to achieve the desired control result.

The processing unit at least comprises a CPU and a RAM. The screen preferably is a Liquid Crystal Display LCD . The storage unit is a flash memory or other non volatile storage device.

The input unit generates different signals to the processing unit corresponding to different operations. In the embodiment the input unit is a key module of the electronic device such as a keypad on a mobile phone or a keypad on a TV remote controller. Such keypad preferably comprises three keys i.e. a back key a next key and an enter key or OK key . If required the input unit may further comprises other keys for example an up key a down key or a delete key a space key not shown in the diagrams etc. When the user press a back key a next key an enter key a up key or a down key once the input unit correspondingly generates a first signal a second signal a third signal a fourth signal or a fifth signal to the processing unit .

The input unit can be a wheel module having a wheel not shown in the diagrams. When a user operates wheel by moving the wheel forward once moving the wheel backward once and pressing the wheel once the input unit correspondingly generates the first signal the second signal and the third signal to the processing unit .

The input unit also can be an eye control module for detecting the eye movement not shown in the diagrams for example a CEye Eye Control Module from the Tobii Company. Each time a user moves the eye balls to the right once moves the eye balls to the left once and blinks the eyes once the input unit correspondingly generates the first signal the second signal the third signal to the processing unit .

The input unit also can be a voice recognition input module for recognizing voice instructions. When a user makes instructions such as up down input etc. the input unit correspondingly generates a first signal a second signal a third signal to the processing unit .

The input unit can further be a human motion sensing input module. When a user waves the hands up once waves the hands down once and claps the hands once the input unit correspondingly generates the first signal the second signal the third signal to the processing unit .

The processing unit executes actions according to the input control application the actions comprising 

a Obtain a member group. The member group has members lined up orderly. The group member are lined up based on numerical order 1 9 on alphabetical order of upper case English letter A Z or alphabetical order of lower case English letter a z or Mandarin Phonetic Symbol or a predetermined lined up symbols for example punctuation marks or the stroke count of Chinese characters or radical words of Chinese characters or horizontal coordinates of the screen for example 0 0 1024 0 or vertical coordinates of the screen for example 0 0 0 768 . The order of the members in the member group is not limited to sequential order for example the member group having three members 0 0 512 0 and 1024 0 located on the same horizontal line. Preferably the group members in the member group can be switched with the members of other groups for example from the number group to the upper case English letter group which is detailed in the following. Wherein one of the group members is predetermined as the selection member preferably the member in the middle or the member after the middle is determined as the selection member. For example if there are 10 members which are numbers 0 9 in the current member group the member in the exact middle does not exist. Accordingly the 4 before the middle or the 5 after the middle is determined to be the selection member. For another example if there are only 5 members from 0 4 in the current member group then 2 is the member in the exact middle which is required to be determined as the selection member. In addition the member order can be determined by users. For example line up the frequently used members next to the selection member and line up least frequently members away from the selection member.

b Upon receiving the signals from the input unit selectively execute one of the following operating steps 

The first operating step when the signal is the first signal generated after pressing the back key the members currently lined up after the selection member in the member group are excluded from the member group. Preferably the selection member is excluded from the member group too. Next determining if there is only one member left in the current member group. If the determination result is No the member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle is determined to be the select member and if the determination result is Yes executes an input operation according to the last member for example the last member is entered in an editing column displayed on the screen .

The second operating step when the signal is the second signal generated after pressing the next key the members currently lined up before the selection member are excluded from the member group preferably the selection member is excluded from the member group too. Next determining if there is only one member left in the current member group. If the determination result is No the member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle is determined to be the select member if the determination result is Yes executes an input operation according to the last member for example the last member is entered in an editing column displayed on the screen .

The third operating step when the signal is the third signal generated after pressing the enter key the selection member in the current member group is entered into the editing column.

Next the above mentioned input control application is illustrated in an example inputting Chinese texts. The member group and the editing column are displayed in the screen as the member group and the editing column are displayed in the and . A group in the member group has members from offered for user selection. The is lined up in the middle is predetermined as the selection member. Preferably the selection member is highlighted so that the user can recognize easily.

First the first member which the user desires to input is and is the member lined up before the selection member . Naturally the user may perceive to search backwards and press the back key according to the perception which triggers the input unit to generate a first signal to the processing unit . The processing unit executes the above mentioned first operating step i.e. excluding the selection member and all the members which are lined up after the selection member as shown in . Next the processing unit determines that there are several members in the member group . Then is determined to be the new selection member. There are 17 members left 17 members left in the current member group is lined up in the middle between accordingly is determined as the new selection member.

The which the user desires to input is still lined up before the current selection member the user further presses the back key once to trigger the input unit to generate a first signal to the processing unit . The processing unit again executes the first operating step. Consequently there are only members left in the member group and lined up after the middle is determined as the new selection member as shown in the .

At the time which the user desires to input is after the selection member in the current member group. The user may perceive to search backward. The user presses the next key once according to the perception which triggers the input unit to generate a second signal to the processing unit . The processing unit executes the above mentioned second operating step i.e. excluding the selection member and the members currently lined up before the selection member as shown in . Then which is lined up in the middle in the member group is determined as the new selection member.

The selection member in the member group then is the first member which the user desires to input. At the time the user presses the enter key once which triggers the input to generate a third signal. The processing unit receives the third signal and correspondingly executes the above mentioned third operating step i.e. the selection member is entered in the editing column . Thus the user completes inputting the first member .

Provided the first member which the user desires to input is instead of or and the actions move to the scenario shown in . Because is lined up after the user presses next key once to generate a second signal the processing unit correspondingly executes the second operating step based on the second signal to exclude and are both excluded in . At this point the processing unit determines there is only one member in the member group and is directly entered in the editing column . Thus the user the user completes inputting the first member .

Provided the first member which the user desires to input is instead of and the actions move to the scenario shown in . Because is lined up before and the user presses the back key once to generate a first signal the processing unit correspondingly executes the first operating step based on the first signal to both exclude and in . At this point the processing unit determines there is only one member in the member group and is directly entered in the editing column . Thus the user the user completes inputting the first member .

The above actions further comprises a change step. When the last member or the selection member in the member group is entered in the editing column the processing unit executes a change step used for switching members in the member group with new members in another group and determining a member in the middle before the middle or after the middle as the selection member. The new member and the member in the current editing column is associated for example associated phonetically. For example in when is entered in editing column the processing unit switches the members in the member group with a new member the new member is from a group of the members associated phonetically with such as . . . etc. the member lined up in the middle is determined as the selection member and highlighted. Next the user proceeds with inputting the second member according to the process mentioned above and the process is not repeated hereto.

In two members and are entered in the editing column respectively. When is entered in the editing column as mentioned previously the processing unit executes a change step to enable the member group to list new members associates with wherein is a final and the new member corresponds to a tone symbol the first member is space representing the first tone the second to the fourth member respectively are representing respectively the second fourth tone and which is lined up after the middle is determined as the selection member. In the embodiment the new member and the member in current editing column are associated phonetically. Next the user proceeds with inputting the third member according to the process mentioned above and the process is not repeated hereto.

In the user proceeds to inputting the third member . When is entered into the editing column as mentioned previously the processing unit executes a change step to enable the member group to list new members associates with . Because is a complete segment of the Mandarin Phonetic Symbol the new member corresponds to a Chinese homophone character and which is lined up in the middle is determined as the selection member. In the embodiment the new member and the member in the current editing column are phonetically associated. Next the user proceeds with inputting the fourth member according to the process mentioned above and the process is not repeated hereto.

In the user proceeds with inputting the fourth member which is a Chinese character . When is entered in the editing column as mentioned previously the processing unit executes a change step. Different from the above mentioned because the first Chinese character is inputted at this point the processing unit executes the change step to change from the member group to the previous members and determines the a member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle as the selection member. In the embodiment which is lined up in the middle is predetermined as a selection member. The above mentioned input control application further comprises a replace step used for simultaneously executing executes a replace step upon the processing unit executing the above mentioned change step wherein the member immediately entered in the editing column replaces the member in the editing column . In the embodiment replaces in the editing column . Next the user proceeds with inputting the second Chinese character according to the process mentioned above and the process is not repeated hereto.

In the embodiment mentioned above the user only uses three keys i.e. the back key the next key and the enter key for inputting the Chinese character in the electronic device .

Next the above mentioned input control application is illustrated in an example inputting numbers. In the embodiment the member group is hidden and not displayed on the screen and the members in the member group are two digit numbers 99 00 . The selection member is determined as the maximum or the minimum numbers for example 99 or 00 . The selection member is directly entered and displayed in a editing column on the screen . The editing column comprises one or several sub columns . Each sub column displays a number among 0 9 . The quantity of the sub columns corresponds to the length of the member. For example if members in the member group are 0 9 only one sub column is displayed and if the members in the member group are 000 999 threes sub columns are displayed and so on. In terms of the generating method of a sub column in the embodiment a sub column is generated according to the above mentioned first signal i.e. the user presses the back key once the processing unit correspondingly generates a sub column displayed on the screen .

Provided the member which the user currently desires to input is a number 48 . Because the member is a two digit number the user has to presses the back key twice for generating two sub columns correspondingly in order to form the editing column on the screen . Next the user has to press the next key representing the editing column is generated. In the embodiment the members 99 00 in the member group are lined up by descending order. The predetermined selection member is the first number 99 in the member group and 99 is entered in the editing column on the screen accordingly. Then the actions moves to inputting the following member numbers .

Because the member 48 to input currently is lined up after the current selection member 99 the user may perceive to search backward and press the next key according to the perception which triggers the input unit to generate a second signal to the processing unit . The processing unit executes the above mentioned second operating step i.e. excluding the selection member 99 and all the members lined up before the selection member and then the processing unit determines the member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle in the member group as the new selection member which is displayed in the editing column . Nonetheless the members are lined up by descending order the first member is 99 and there is no member lined up in front of 99 . Accordingly only 99 is excluded in the second operating step executed the members left in the member group are 98 00 . It should be noted that 49 is lined up before the middle of 98 00 . After the processing unit executes the second operating step the 49 is determined to be the new selection member. In the embodiment the selection member 49 is directly entered in editing column as shown in .

Next the user perceives to search backwards because 48 is lined up after 49 the user presses the next key once and the result is that there are only members 48 00 left in the member group 49 and the members 98 50 before 49 are excluded and the 24 in the middle is determined as the new selection member.

At this point the member to input 48 is lined up before the current selection member 24 the user perceives to search backward and press the back key according to the perception which triggers the input unit to generate a first signal to the processing unit . The processing unit executes the above mentioned first operating step i.e. excluding the selection member 24 and all the members 23 00 lined up after the selection member and there are only members 48 25 left in the member group. Then the processing unit determines the member 36 after the middle in the member group as the new selection member as shown in . The user presses corresponding keys following the same logic flow and the members left in the member group are less and less. Following the operating steps the selection member is then determined as 42 at this point there are only 12 members 48 37 left in the member group 45 at this point there are only 6 members 48 43 left in the member group 47 at this point there are only 3 members 46 48 left in the member group . As shown in when the selection member is 45 and the ten digit of all other members are also 4 then 4 is determined as the number of first sub column . The processing unit highlights the 4 representing 4 is locked and does not respond to key operations.

When the selection member in the member group is 47 the user perceives to search backward and presses the back key once there is only 48 left in the member group. Because 48 is the last member 8 is then determined as the number in the second sub column . The processing unit highlights the 8 representing 8 is locked and does not respond to key operations. Thus the member 48 is entered in the editing column as shown in which means the user has completed inputting the number 48 .

In the embodiments shown from to the user uses two keys i.e. the back key and the next key for inputting the number in the electronic device .

In addition according to the above mentioned description the member group can be con to display or not display on the screen . There are many members displayed in the beginning and the member count in the member group decreases as the user operating with pressing keys. The member count decreases by half after each operation step the selection member or the last member is entered and displayed in the editing column or on the screen .

In the screen displays another type of the member group with the content similar to the above mentioned member group . Different from the above the members in the above mentioned member group are regular member yet the members in the member group comprises several regular members for example also comprises several switch members the members in the grey background in the diagram . The user perform selection operations among regular members according to the above mentioned description and the selected or the last regular member is entered in the editing column . Same with the regular members the switch members are also provided for user selection and the selection operations are identical with the above mentioned embodiment. However the last selected switch member is not entered in the editing column instead it is switched with the regular member in the member group .

Accordingly in the embodiments shown in to the above mentioned inputting operations should be changed to determining if the last member is one of the switch members . When the determining result is No the last member which is a regular member is entered in the editing column . When the determining result is Yes the members of the member group are switched for including the group of regular members which corresponds to a switch member and the remaining switch members . The above mentioned third operating step should be changed to when receiving a third signal from the input unit determining if the selection members in the current member group has a switch member . If the determining result is No the current selection member is entered in the editing column . When the determining result is Yes the members of the member group are switched for including the group of regular members which corresponds to and represents a switch member and the remaining switch members .

According to the above mentioned description in the embodiment the switch members are respectively E e 8 part of the switch members are lined up before the regular member and part of the switch members are lined up after the regular member . Each switch member corresponds to a group of regular members . In details the switch member corresponds to and represents Mandarin Phonetic Symbol. As shown in the switch member is hidden yet other switch members are displayed for user selection. corresponds to and represents the regular members including several punctuation marks and frequently used mathematic symbols. As shown in the switch member is hidden yet and other switch members are displayed for user selection. E corresponds to and represents the regular members including several upper case English letters. As shown in the switch member E is hidden yet and other switch members are displayed for user selection e corresponds to and represents the regular members including several lower case English letters. As shown in the switch member e is hidden yet E and other switch members are displayed for user selection. 8 corresponds to and represents the regular members including several numbers 0 9 . As shown in 8 the switch member is hidden yet e and other switch members are displayed for user selection.

The members in the member group are provided for selection including both the regular member and the switch member . They can be assigned as the selection member the member in the slash background in the diagram . The operating method is identical with the embodiment above which is completed by operating the keys of the input unit . For example the next key is pressed to generate the first signal which is received by the processing unit . If there are several members in the member group the members before the selection member are excluded. In for example the switch members Y 8 and the regular members are completely excluded or partly excluded and the new selection member is determined among remaining members. For another example when the back key is pressed to generate the second signal which is received by the processing unit . If there are several members in the member group the members after the selection member are excluded. For example in the regular members and the switch member E and e are completely excluded or partly excluded and the new selection member is determined among remaining members. For another example when the enter key is pressed and to generate the third signal which is received by the processing unit . If the current selection member is a regular member the regular member is entered in the editing column and if the current selection member is a switch member the screen switches to display all regular members correspond to and represent the switch member .

In to when the member count of total members in the member group exceeds a predetermined value the members are not able to display on the screen in one row the members are displayed in a plurality of rows on the screen for example an upper and a lower rows . When the processing unit receives the first signal or the second signal the members lined up before or after the selection member are excluded in rows as the unit. Thus the user presses the keys to generate the first signal or the second signal and the processing unit executes the corresponding operating step according to the signals then there is one row of members displayed on the screen at the end which is helpful visually to the user to locate the position of the member the user desires to input.

In to an embodiment is used for illustrating inputting a number 4 and an upper case English letter E . First as shown in the member group displayed on the screen is a member group and a regular member the number 4 is predetermined as the selection member . At this point the user only needs to press the enter key to enter the selection member the number 4 in the editing column as shown in at this point the input of one member is completed so again all members are displayed on the member group .

Next the user desires to switch the member group to the regular members of upper case English letter. Because the members corresponds to E the switch member E is lined up after the predetermined selection member the user only needs to intuitively press the next key the processing unit receives the first signal corresponding to the next key and then excludes all members before the selection member and leaves all the members lined up after the selection member as shown in then determines a new selection member A i.e. the number 8 . Because E the switch member is still lined up after the selection member A the user has to again press the next key . At this point the processing unit excludes all the members before the selection member A and determines a new selection member B as shown in . At this point E the switch member is determined as the selection member B. Accordingly the user directly presses the enter key to trigger the processing unit to execute the third operating step corresponding to the third signal i.e. switching to the upper case English letter corresponding to the E switch member on the screen as shown in .

Next because the user desires to input the letter E which is lined up before the predetermined selection member in the member group . The user intuitively presses the back key the processing unit receives the second signal corresponding to the back key and then excludes all members after the selection member and leaves all the members lined up before the selection member as shown in then determines a new selection member C. At this point the selection member C is the regular member the upper case English letter E the user desires to input the user directly presses the enter key the processing unit to trigger the processing unit to execute the third operating step corresponding to the third signal and enters the selection member C the upper case English letter E in the editing column as shown in . At this point all members are displayed again in the member group on the screen .

Compare to the prior art the technology disclosed in the present invention is suited to use in compact electronic devices only a few input signals are required to complete the operating steps which makes the input process fast and intuitive and reduces the time spent on searching for the inputting text. In addition the present invention provides an easy method to switch between different input text.

In addition when members are excluded in the above mentioned member group the user may press the up key to generate a fourth signal the processing unit restores the members excluded previously and the members are displayed in the member group again. Further if a member is entered in the above mentioned editing column and there is no members excluded in the member group At this point if the user presses the up key to generate the fourth signal the processing unit deletes the member previously entered in the editing column. In short the up key has functions to restore members and delete members. Furthermore if a member is entered in the above mentioned editing column and the member group and there is no members excluded in the member group. At this point if the user presses the enter key the processing unit receives the signal corresponding to the enter key then transfer the member in the editing column outbound for example transfer to a textbox.

Under the scenario where the members of the member group are the coordinates of the screen the coordinates predetermined as the selection members are cursor coordinates on screen . For example provided the resolution of the screen is setup as 1024 768 and the cursor is in the center point of the screen with the coordinates as 512 384 . At this point an Application Programming Interface API from the operating system provide resource to obtain coordinates of the center point 512 384 and two coordinates 0 384 and 1024 384 which is at the same horizontal line of the coordinates 512 384 . At this point the members in the member group are 0 384 512 384 1024 384 and other coordinates x y which derive from the calculation of the three coordinates given y 384 wherein 512 384 is the selection member. Under the specific scenario the processing unit executes the first operation step according to the first signal received. Then the members in the member group become 0 384 255 384 and 511 384 . Because 512 384 and the coordinates after 512 384 are excluded and 255 384 in the middle is determined as the selection member. At this point the processing unit moves the cursor to the selection member 255 384 which equals to that the cursor moves horizontally to the left along a horizontal line for a distance which is about the half of the distance between two coordinates 0 384 and 1024 384 to the user. When the processing unit executes the first operation step for a second time the members in the member group become 0 384 127 384 and 254 384 . The 127 384 in the middle is determined as the selection member and the cursor moves to the selection member 127 384 which equals to that the cursor moves horizontally to the left along a horizontal line for a distance which is about the half of the distance between two coordinates 0 384 and 254 384 to the user. When the processing unit executes the second operation step for a second time according to the second signal received the members in the member group become 128 384 191 384 254 384 . Because 127 384 and all the coordinates before 127 384 are excluded and 191 384 in the middle is determined as the selection member. At this point the processing unit moves the cursor to the selection member 191 384 which equals to that the cursor moves horizontally to the right along a horizontal line for a distance which is about the half of the distance between two coordinates 128384 and 254 384 to the user and so on. After the processing unit repeats executing the first operation step the members in the member group in the end become 128 384 129 384 and 130 384 and 129 384 is the selection member. After the processing unit then again executes the second operation step once there is only one member 130 384 in the member group because the selection member 129 384 and the coordinates before 128 384 are excluded. At this point the processing unit determines that there is only one member 130 384 in the member group and then executes an input operation which is restoring the members in the member group and determines the last member to be the selection member. At this point the members in the member group are 0 384 130 384 1024 384 and other coordinates x y which derive from the calculation of the three coordinates given y 384 wherein 130 384 is the selection member and at this point the cursor is at 130 384 .

According to the above description when the members in the member group are coordinates on the same horizontal line the cursor is allowed to move to the left and to the right by using the above mentioned input method and the moving distance is the half of the last moving distance. If the members in the member group are coordinates on the same vertical line the above mentioned first operation step is changed to the fourth operation step the second operation step is changed to the fifth operation step. The fourth operation step is when the signal is the fourth signal generated upon the up key is pressed the members after the selection member in the member group are excluded. Preferably the selection member is also excluded. Then determining if there is only one member left in the member group. If the determining result is No the member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle in the member group is determined as the new selection member if the determining result is Yes executing an input operation for example restoring the members in the member group and the last member replaces the member which is preciously the selection member. The fifth operation step is when the signal is the fifth signal generated upon the down key is pressed the members before the selection member in the member group are excluded. Preferably the selection member is also excluded. Then determines if there is only one member left in the member group. If the determining result is No the member in the middle or before the middle or after the middle in the member group is determined as the new selection member if the determining result is Yes executing an input operation for example restoring the members in the member group and the last member replaces the member which is preciously the selection member.

In to the input control application is further configured for controlling the cursor movement. Substantially the processing unit controls the moving direction and moving distance of the cursor on the screen according to moving signals generated upon pressing the back key the next key the down key and the up key . If the moving signal is a left moving signal i.e. the above mentioned first signal the cursor is controlled to linearly move to the left. If the signal is a right moving signal i.e. the above mentioned second signal the cursor is controlled to linearly move to the right. If the signal is a up signal i.e. the above mentioned fourth signal the cursor is controlled to linearly move upwards. If the signal is a down signal i.e. the above mentioned fifth signal the cursor is controlled to linearly move downwards. The distance of the first horizontal linear movement of the cursor is the half of the distance between the starting coordinates of the cursor and the horizontal boundary left boundary or right boundary of the screen . Then the distance of following horizontal distance is the half of the last moving distance. The distance of the first vertical linear movement of the cursor is the half of the distance between the starting coordinates of the cursor and the vertical boundary upper boundary or lower boundary of the screen . Then the distance of following vertical distance is the half of the last moving distance.

For example as shown in a user desires to move the cursor on the screen from the starting point A to an ID column on the screen . Because the ID column is located above the cursor the user may perceive to intuitively press the up key to generate the up signal. The processing unit receives the up signal and then controls the cursor to linearly move upwards from the starting point A to the new position B as shown in . This is the first vertical movement of the cursor . The moving distance of the cursor is D2 D1 2 which is the half of the distance D1 between the starting point A and the upper boundary U of the screen .

Next as shown in the ID column is currently located below the position B of the cursor . The user further presses the down key to generate the down signal. The processing unit receives the down signal and then controls the cursor to linearly move downwards from the position B to the new position C. The moving distance is half of the last moving distance which is D1 2 2 D1 4 . At this point the position C of the cursor overlaps with the position of the ID column which means the user completes the operation to move the cursor to the ID column .

Preferably after the cursor moves to the ID column if the processing unit further receives the generated signal after the enter key is pressed the processing unit transfer the ID column to a status ready to receive input and displays the member group on the screen and removes the cursor as shown in wherein English letters are displayed in the member group for selection the operating process is described in the above and is not repeated hereto.

As shown in the user next desires to move the cursor to a password column . The user again presses the enter key and then the cursor is displayed on the screen again. Next the user controls the cursor to move to the password column according to the operations mentioned above.

In the user presses a key in the screen . Because the key is located at the right side of the cursor at this point the user presses the next key and generates the right moving signal. The processing unit controls the cursor to move to the right from the starting point D to a new position E according to the right moving signal. The moving distance is the half of the distance D2 between the starting point D and the right boundary R of the screen . At this point the location E of the cursor overlaps with the position of the login key the user presses the enter key to generate the confirm signal the processing unit triggers the login key according to the confirm signal.

In addition when the processing unit receives any moving signal and the distance which the cursor expects to move is zero the processing unit proceeds to reset procedure which makes the moving distance of the cursor become the half of the distance between the current coordinates starting point and one of the boundaries of the screen were the boundary can be an upper boundary lower boundary left boundary or right boundary depending on the moving direction of the cursor .

In any case one would understand that the present invention contains industrial applicability in view of the teachings of the forgoing description. Further the present invention contains novelty because no prior art has been found to be the same with the present invention. Still further the present invention contains non obviousness because no prior art has been found to be similar to the present invention. Accordingly the present invention fulfills the requirements for a utility patent and is filed herein for application.

