---

title: Customization of a vehicle
abstract: Devices, systems, and techniques are provided for customization a vehicle and the interior thereof. The customization can be based at least on customization themes associated with an occupant of the vehicle and/or the vehicle. In addition or in the alternative, the customization can be based at least on vehicular context of the occupants and the vehicle. A specific customization can be effected in response to a change in context of vehicle, and thus the vehicle can be dynamically customized in response to a specific vehicular context as the context is realized. The customization themes can integrate with an in-vehicle infotainment (IVI) system and/or one or more of in-cabin lighting, projection or other rendering features, or data streams. Customization can be accomplished via configuration of one or more customization components comprising sensors, rendering units, lighting fixtures, or control components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134955&OS=09134955&RS=09134955
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09134955
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
The desire of individuals to customize the interior space of cars typically is global. Commonly loved ones are inclined to display concern for and seek connection with car operators and or car occupants with gifts directed to the car s interior often with presents focused around safety. Car operators and occupants want to feel a sense of comfort and connection around themselves while on the road. In addition people want their cars to reflect their personalities and keep them connected to those whom they love.

Creating a theme for the interior of a vehicle e.g. a car a yacht or the like typically is limited to physical objects that are brought into the interior including seat covers steering wheel covers car carpeting pillows stickers chrome edging bobble heads and so forth. It is also common for people to remain connected to family through physical objects such as religious and safety talismans and memorabilia and by incorporating pictures of a family member onto dashboards or tucking away such pictures in sun shades and other places.

Devices systems and techniques are provided for customization a vehicle and the interior thereof. The customization can be based at least on customization themes associated with an occupant of the vehicle and or the vehicle. In addition or in the alternative the customization can be based at least on vehicular context of the occupants and the vehicle. A specific customization can be effected in response to a change in context of vehicle and thus the vehicle can be dynamically customized in response to a specific vehicular context as the context is realized. The customization themes can integrate with an in vehicle infotainment IVI system and or one or more of in cabin lighting projection or other rendering features or data streams. Customization can be accomplished via configuration of one or more customization components comprising sensors rendering units lighting fixtures or control components.

The disclosure recognizes and addresses in one aspect the issue of vehicle customization and related customizable in car experiences via themes. referred to as customization themes. The disclosure provides devices systems and techniques for customization of a vehicle and the interior thereof and associated in cabin experiences. The customization can be based at least on the operator e.g. a driver a pilot etc. of the vehicle and or other passengers. In the present disclosure the operation of a vehicle and the passenger s thereof are referred to as the occupants . In addition or in the alternative the customization can be based at least on vehicular context such as time of day day of week special occasion or the like of the occupants and the vehicle. In certain implementations a specific customization can be effected in response to a change in the vehicular context of the vehicle. Thus in such implementations the vehicle can be dynamically customized in response to specific vehicular context as the context is realized. As described in greater detail below the customization can be accomplished via customization themes that can integrate with an in vehicle infotainment IVI system and or one or more customization components such as in cabin lighting fixtures projection devices or other rendering units information streams or the like. In one implementation for example the customization can utilize digital information such as content and communications substantially without or strictly without reliance on adjustment or configuration of analogic components. In such an implementation the customization can be referred to as a digital customization. Customization themes can define the scope of information e.g. content communications vehicular performance constraints and source s thereof that can be utilized or leveraged to customize a vehicle. Customization themes can comprise for example personal themes or corporate themes wherein personal themes can be authored e.g. designed generated or designed and generated by an occupant of a vehicle or a third party and corporate themes can be authored by a specific organization e.g. a trucking company a logistics company etc. . Specific occupant preferences and or selections can be contemplated in order to establish a customization theme.

Customization of the vehicle in accordance with a customization theme can leverage customization information from a variety of sources which can be internal to the vehicle external to the vehicle or both. In such implementations the disclosure can implement secure access to cabin control information vehicle information and information originating in networked sources user equipment and the like. In one aspect customization information can be consumed internally and or transmitted to other devices vehicles and or network elements. In another aspect customization information can be utilized to configure or otherwise program one or more customization components comprising rendering units sensors control components and or lighting components. The disclosed customization of the vehicle can permit adjustment of appearance and or feel in order to permit custom content services and or preferential data display based at least on available context sensor and cloud data in accordance with a customization theme.

At least one example advantage of the disclosure over conventional vehicle customization may be the creation of vehicular customizations such as digital customizations that can provide a substantially richer more holistic and connected experience with sources of customization. For instance implementation of a customization theme can provide information associated with the theme such as sports information related to a sports theme. Similarly implementation of a customization theme can cause connectivity with remote relatives such rendering messages or other content received from a remote relative. At least another example advantage may be the dynamic aspect of digital customizations which can be implemented in response to a specific context or event for example. At least yet another advantage may be that a vehicular customization in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure such as digital customization can permit a vehicle to be re customized without a need to change or replace some or all physical artifacts that typically are utilized to customize a vehicle.

Referring to the drawings. illustrates an example operational environment in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. As illustrated the operational environment includes a vehicle that has a group of customization components and an in vehicle infotainment IVI system . The group of customization components can be deployed e.g. installed configured accepted installed and accepted configured and accepted installed configured and accepted or the like within the cabin of the vehicle such as components or outside the cabin. A customization component deployed within the cabin can be embodied in or can comprise a surface of the interior represented by customization component for example of the vehicle having a configurable functional element such as electrophoretic ink or an electrochromic element that permits rendering content at the surface. In addition or in the alternative a customization component can be embodied in or can comprise a surface onto which content can be rendered e.g. projected via another customization component e.g. an audiovisual projector or a display unit . The group of customization components can be functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to the IVI system . Such functional coupling can permit exchange of information e.g. data metadata and or signaling in digital format and or analogic format between at least one of the group of customization components and the IVI system . For example the IVI system via one or more components therein can transmit customization instructions to one or more of the customization components . In certain scenarios the customization instructions can be transmitted to a customization component in response to data metadata and or signaling received at the IVI system from such component or any other customization component. In addition or in the alternative the customization instructions can be transmitted in response to data metadata and or signaling received from a functional element e.g. a component a unit a system etc. that is external to the vehicle. Implementation of one or more customization instructions e.g. execution of the one or more customization instructions by a customization component or a processor therein or functionally coupled thereto can permit customization of the vehicle. It should be appreciated that in one aspect customization of the vehicle in response to certain information received from an internal or external source e.g. a sensor a device a network node or the like can permit dynamic customization of the vehicle . Dynamic customization can include customization of the vehicle in response to information indicative or representative of a customization criterion being satisfied. A customization criterion can contemplate occurrence of a specific event e.g. a sports team victory a job promotion a birthday and the like . In addition or in the alternative a customization criterion can contemplate specific instants such as time of day time of week and the like. Moreover or as another alternative a customization criterion can contemplate presence of a specific occupant or combination of occupants within the vehicle .

In addition the group of customization components can include at least one rendering component at least one control component e.g. one or more electronic control units at least one lighting component and or at least one sensor. In one aspect a rendering component can be embodied in or can comprise an audio playback unit an audiovisual projector and or a display unit such as a vehicle dashboard a navigation system display or any other terminal display within the vehicle or a combination of the foregoing . In another aspect a lighting component can be embodied in or can comprise a lighting fixture. In yet another aspect a control component can be embodied in or can comprise a temperature control component a navigation component a seat firmness control component a speed control component a speed monitoring component an acceleration control component an acceleration monitoring component a breaking control component and or a safety component. In still another aspect a sensor can be embodied in or can comprise a sonar sensor or a camera such as a driver facing camera a front facing camera a rear view camera or a blind spot camera . As illustrated in in certain scenarios the group of customization components can be referred to as customization component s which can include one or more rendering components one or more control components one or more lighting components and one or more sensor s . The customization component s can be functionally coupled to the IVI system via one or more links that can comprise wireless link s wireline link s or any combination thereof. In certain embodiments the link s can comprise or can be embodied in a vehicle bus such as a controller area network CAN bus CANbus .

As illustrated in the example operational environment the IVI system can be functionally coupled to a device via link s . The link s can comprise wireless links formed according to a point to point or line of sight radio technology such as near field communication NFC or Bluetooth. In addition or in the alternative the IVI system can be functionally coupled to a satellite network via wireless link s . The satellite network can comprise several satellites and can permit or facilitate the IVI system to acquire content e.g. audio content and or video content or other information specific to a customization theme for customization of the vehicle . It should be appreciated that in certain scenarios the device can be functionally coupled to the satellite network via a suitable wireless downstream link DL not shown . Moreover or as another alternative the IVI system can be functionally coupled to another vehicle via wireless link s which can comprise for example a direct short range communications DSRC wireless link and or a radiofrequency RF link suitable for communication with radiofrequency identification RFID devices e.g. reprogrammable B tag devices . The wireless link s also can comprise optically switched wireless link s e.g. infrared electromagnetic radiation switching or visible electromagnetic EM radiation switching . Such coupling can permit vehicle to vehicle V2V communication and or vehicle to infrastructure V2I communication. Furthermore or as yet another alternative the IVI system can be functionally coupled to a wireless network via wireless link s . The wireless network can comprise wireless local area network WLAN components and or wireless wide area network WWAN components. It should be appreciated that in certain scenarios the wireless network can be embodied in a macro cellular network. In other scenarios the wireless network can include a low power confined wireless network such as a femtocell network or a wireless fidelity Wi Fi network. It is contemplated that the wireless network can operate according to most any wireless communication technology such as Wi Fi wireless fidelity Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IS 95 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. In certain scenarios the device can be functionally coupled to the IVI system via the wireless network .

As illustrated the functional coupling to the wireless network can permit the IVI system to access e.g. retrieve or otherwise acquire information such as content from one or more services which can be deployed in the cloud e.g. distributed or federated services accessible via a WAN such as the wireless network . As illustrated the service s can be accessed at least in part via traffic and signaling pipe s which can comprise wireline link s and or wireless link s and several network elements such as routers or switches concentrators servers and the like . The content can comprise one or more media assets audio segments motion picture segments non motion picture segments or the like .

It can be appreciated that the IVI system may be pervasively coupled to various sources which can be internal or external to the vehicle and can access a plethora of information from such sources. Such information can be leveraged to customize the interior of the vehicle for example in accordance with a specific customization theme. In certain scenarios information that is acquired from an internal source e.g. at least one sensor can be transmitted e.g. broadcasted unicasted or multi casted to another vehicle and or to a network element. In one aspect execution of one or more customization instructions can permit or facilitate consumption and or transmission of such information. For instance in one scenario at least one of the customization components can render a portion of information that is accessed from a source such as another vehicle a device certain infrastructure a content service or the like. The information that is accessed by the IVI system can be retained in the IVI system for a predetermined period or substantially permanently.

In certain embodiments such as example embodiment shown in the IVI system can comprise a customization platform that permits personal customization of a vehicle containing the IVI system . The customization platform can access e.g. receive or otherwise acquire theme information indicative of a customization theme e.g. personal theme a corporate theme or the like associated with an occupant of the vehicle e.g. the operator or a passenger . As described herein the customization theme can be authored by an occupant of a vehicle or a third party such as theme developers or vendors or an organization. Accordingly in one aspect the scope of the customization theme can be unconstrained and can comprise any information e.g. content devised by an author e.g. an occupant of a car a vendor an organization or the like of the customization theme. As an illustration the customization theme can be or can comprise a gaming theme a shopping theme a recreational theme such as a holiday or seasonal theme a sports theme an adventure theme a family theme a business theme a nature theme a religious theme any combination thereof or the like. It should be appreciated that in one aspect a corporate theme can differ from a personal theme in that an organization or corporation can define the corporate theme for vehicles that are part of a corporate fleet or that are utilized for conducting business of the organization or corporation. In one aspect the customization platform can access at least a portion of the theme information from a customization storage contained in a repository and or repository . It should be appreciated that the repository can contain theme information and or information suitable for generation of theme information. The customization storage can comprise one or more of customization data metadata and or signaling. The signaling can be embodied in or can comprise machine accessible instructions e.g. machine readable and or machine executable instructions . In another aspect the customization platform can access theme information from a device at least one service component of a group of one or more service components and or a vehicle . Specific customization features associated with the theme information can dictate a specific source to be accessed in order to obtain at least a portion of such information. For example in a gaming theme gamer updates can be accessed from at least one of the service component s . For another example in a pet theme information indicative of events related to a preferred pet e.g. a cat can be accessed. In addition at least a portion of such information can be rendered as part of a vehicular customization as shown in element in . In one implementation the customization platform can register the IVI system with such service component and can receive content e.g. audio segments video segments non motion picture assets or the like or other information such as messages e.g. multimedia message service MMS communications short message service SMS communications email communications combinations thereof or the like . For yet another example in a recreational theme that incorporates navigation aspects such as identification of a location the customization platform can access a service component associated with a location service in order to access location information and or route information. The customization platform can access tagged locations and or untagged locations. In one aspect access to a tagged location can permit or facilitate identification of a local landmark associated with a personal theme or any other theme e.g. a corporate theme for vehicular customization. For instance in a scenario in which a theme for vehicle customization comprises an antiquing them or a sports theme a tagged location can be associated with an antique shop or a home of a sports celebrity can be rendered in the customized vehicle s navigational prevue see for example element in .

In one embodiment the customization platform can infer that certain content is desirable or otherwise applicable to a customization theme and in response the customization platform can subscribe to a content service e.g. one or more of service component s that can provide the content that is inferred. Such content can be retained in the repository which can be accessed by at least one of the service component s via the traffic and signaling pipe which can comprise wireline link s and or wireless link s and several network elements such as routers or switches concentrators servers and the like . In one aspect the customization platform can utilize artificial intelligence techniques at least to make an inference regarding desirable content e.g. draw a conclusion about current or future content that is pertinent to a customization theme based at least on existing information about the customization theme or a vehicular context associated with the customization theme. Artificial intelligence AI techniques can be utilized to identify a specific context or action or to generate a probability distribution of specific states of a system without human intervention. In certain implementations the artificial intelligence can comprise advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning that can be applied to specific information associated with an operational environment such as a system or a platform. In connection with inferring content pertinent to a customization theme in accordance with aspects of the disclosure the customization platform can utilize at least one of numerous methodologies for learning from information e.g. data and or metadata and then generate inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and the like.

In one implementation the customization platform can access any theme information securely. Accessing the information securely can permit to preserve the integrity of the operated vehicle e.g. vehicle and the integrity of a customized vehicle cabin. In order to access information securely in one embodiment example embodiment shown in the customization platform can include a utility component that can implement a firewall or other mechanisms for secure access of digital information. In a firmware embodiment the utility component can execute a group of computer executable instructions retained within such component and in response the utility component can prevent access to certain information in accordance with an information restriction criterion. In a software embodiment the utility component can be embodied in a group of computer executable instructions and can be retained in a memory. A processor can execute such instructions and in response a firewall can be implemented at the IVI system . In one aspect the utility component can regulate e.g. authorize or decline access to certain information or to certain sources of information. For instance the utility component can manage secure access to one or more of the customization components e.g. the utility component can manage access to sensor s or a hook thereto to control component s to rendering component s and or lighting component s . In another aspect the utility component also can regulate access to other IVI systems other devices and or networked service components. It should be appreciated that in one aspect such secure access functionality for a customization theme can isolate malware that may be injected into the customization information associated with a customization theme and thus can prevent the malware from infiltrating into a safety system or any other critical component of a vehicle that is customized according to the customization theme. In addition or in the alternative the secure access functionality can protect or otherwise ensure the integrity e.g. safety of personal data incorporated into the customization theme.

It should be appreciated that in one aspect secured access to an information source can permit safe access to peer generated content such as personalized messages images or other personalized digital objects that can be accessed at the customization platform . It should further be appreciated that personalized content can provide a sense of warmth and be an expression of concern from remote loved ones. Driving generally is inherently dangerous and being surrounded with a sense of the familiar and especially the familiar that one can control may enhance a feeling of safety and security. For instance personalized messages from loved ones or digital icons that have been gifted to express concern love and or caring can create a feeling of proximity or personal connection to a remote person associated with the personalized content. Such sense of connection can be enhanced in scenarios in which the personalized content can be dynamically updated with information about the remote person such as a reminder that it is their birthday or anniversary.

In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment shown in the customization platform can include a theme composition component that can generate customization information indicative of a feature of the customization theme based on at least a portion of the theme information that is accessed. The customization information can be generated in digital format or in analogic format. As described herein in one aspect the theme composition component can subscribe e.g. register to a content service in order to acquire at least a portion of the information indicative of the feature. In response to the subscription the theme composition component can receive at least the portion of the information. In one embodiment e.g. example embodiment illustrated in the theme composition component can comprise a service subscription component that can subscribe the customization platform to the content service. To at least such end credentials a username an identifying code a password a token and the like can be communicated to a service component of the one or more service components via the wireless link s and through the network s . At least one of the service component s can analyze one or more of the credentials and in response to the credentials being valid or otherwise acceptable the at least one of the service component s can authorize the customization platform and thus the IVI system to access content associated with the content service.

In one aspect a feature of the customization theme can permit composition and implementation of the customization theme. The feature can comprise one or more of an image a video segment an audio segment such as sound a video stream a type of communication a location an illumination level and or a color specific functionality or the like. For example element in represents an audio feature of an example customization theme whereas element represents a content feature e.g. a video feed or video stream of the example customization theme. In one aspect the feature can comprise one or more features associated with one or more theme categories. As an example a theme category can be embodied in or can comprise a feature of a recreational category e.g. location of an ethnic food restaurant a feature of an educational category e.g. literary content or a feature of an administrative category e.g. a calendar of an occupant of the vehicle . It should be appreciated that the recreational category can comprise one or more of a gaming category a shopping category a dining category a music venue category or an arts category. In another aspect the administrative category can comprise a scheduling category. It should be appreciated that the feature of the customization theme is not restricted to being a feature of the foregoing categories and substantially any theme category that can be devised by a vehicle occupant or a third party theme developer is contemplated in the disclosure.

The customization platform can process customization information that is accessed from the repository or from any other source such as external sources or internal sources e.g. such as sensor s . In one aspect the customization platform can convert information accessed in analogic format into information in digital format. More complex processing also can be implemented. For instance in one embodiment the theme composition component can generate a satisfactory route from a current location of the vehicle to a location associated with a customization theme. For example in a recreational theme the location associated with the customization theme can be the location of a restaurant a discounted clothing store a social network event e.g. a MeetUp event or the like.

As illustrated in embodiment the customization platform can include a configuration component that can configure or otherwise program one or more vehicle components in order to supply at least a portion of customization information that is accessed at the customization platform . Supplying such information can transform the interior of the vehicle that contains the IVI system described herein. Such a transformation can customize the vehicle in accordance with the customization theme associated with the customization information and thus the transformation can be referred to as vehicular customization. The vehicular customization can comprise specific configuration of digital information such as content. In such scenario the vehicular customization can be referred to as digital customization. In addition or in the alternative the vehicular customization can include configuration of analogic information that permit adjustment of certain performance aspects of the vehicle.

In one aspect the configuration component can configure or otherwise program at least one of the customization component s in accordance with at least a portion of the customization information. For instance the configuration component can configure one or more of an audio component a display component an audiovisual projector a temperature control component a navigation component a lighting fixture a seat firmness control component a speed control component a speed monitoring component an acceleration control component an acceleration monitoring component a breaking control component or a safety component. As described herein in certain embodiments the display component can be embodied in or can include a surface having electrophoretic ink or another reconfigurable rendering element e.g. an electrochromic element that permits rendering content at onto the surface. The surface can be located in the interior of the vehicle or the exterior thereof. In another aspect the configuration component can transmit one or more machine accessible instructions to a vehicle component that in response to execution the instructions cause the vehicle component e.g. a sensor an actuator a control component to restrain at least one of speed of the vehicle acceleration of the vehicle or an inter vehicle distance associated with the vehicle according at least in part to the portion of the customization information. It should be appreciated that in one aspect such restriction can pertain to a theme of safety for a student driver or an inexperienced driver.

In one aspect in response to operation of a vehicle component that is configured or otherwise programmed by the configuration component the vehicle component can supply at least a portion of the customization information and or content generated based at least on such information. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment the theme composition component can include a content composition component that can generate content based at least on customization information accessed by the customization platform . The vehicle component can be or can comprise one or more of the customization components . Supplying at least the portion of the customization information and or the content generated based at least on such information can customize the vehicle that contains the IVI system e.g. vehicle according to a customization theme e.g. a personal theme or a corporate theme associated with the customization information. For example operation of an audiovisual projector located in the interior of the vehicle for example attached to the ceiling can project specific content generated based at least on the customization information onto a surface of the vehicle. As an illustration elements and respectively convey an update message and a navigation message both rendered onto a portion of the windshield of a customized vehicle whereas element conveys a topic update associated with a customization theme. For another example actuating a display component such as a surface having electrophoretic ink also referred to as e ink can render at least the portion of the customization information and or content based at least on such information. For yet another example the vehicle component can be or can comprise a rendering unit e.g. a dashboard display and the vehicle component can render at least the portion of the customization information. For still another example the vehicle component can render information indicative of a threshold that restrains at least one of speed of the vehicle acceleration of the vehicle or an inter vehicle distance associated with the vehicle according at least in part to the portion of the customization information. It should be appreciated that in certain implementations the communication platform can transmit to other functional elements e.g. components units systems network nodes at least certain portions of the customization information associated with a customization theme. To at least such end in certain embodiments the communication platform can comprise a radio unit and an exchange component . In one aspect the radio unit can permit wireless communication e.g. transmission reception transmission and reception of information in accordance with aspects described herein. Such information can be communicated within a vehicle e.g. vehicle and or outside the vehicle. Communication within the vehicle can comprise exchange of information between the IVI system and at least one of the customization component s . In another aspect the exchange component can permit exchange of information e.g. data metadata and or signaling at least among the IVI system and one or more of the customization component s .

From at least the foregoing examples it is readily apparent that the vehicular customization described herein can be re configurable and can be adjusted in response to specific context such as time of day day of week special occasion occupant s presence and or configuration or the like of the vehicle containing the IVI system described herein. Accordingly the disclosed vehicular customization can provide a richly tailored vehicle customization that can be dynamically adapted to context of the vehicle. As described herein such dynamic adaptation can permit for example the interior of a vehicle to be changed based at least on the operator or driver a specific composition of the occupants e.g. parents and child ren husband and wife father and son father and daughter and the like time of day and or due to some special event. As an illustration in a scenario in which a vehicle is shared between a couple with children one spouse may have one group of theme preferences e.g. business baseball etc. the other spouse may have a different group of theme preferences e.g. biking nature politics etc. and both spouses as a couple may have a couples theme or beach theme and a child favorite theme e.g. Pokemon Dora the Explorer The Avengers or the like when both spouse occupy the vehicle in conjunction with the children. In an additional aspect in view that the vehicular customization relies on customization information and configuration of various customization components a vehicle can be re customized without or substantially without implementing changes to an extant arrangement of physical customization artifacts that are generally present in the vehicle.

Similarly diagram presents a group of customizable surfaces that can be included in a set of customization components for a vehicle that is customized in accordance with the illustrated theme which can be an antiquing theme. It should be appreciated that such customizable surfaces can comprise or can be the same as respective customizable surfaces . In such a scenario diagrams and can represent the transition between vehicular customizations that is afforded by the disclosure wherein the customization illustrated in diagram can be switched to the customization illustrated in diagram without changes in physical structure or arrangement of physical artifacts.

From at least the foregoing description of vehicle customization features according to the present disclosure rich illustrative customization themes emerge. These customization themes when implemented in accordance with the various aspects and features described herein can provide a rich in cabin customization for example. Such customization can provide a sense of individuality and can be largely aligned with the emotional state also referred to as mood of the driver with the ensuing increased satisfaction that may be derived from operation of the customized vehicle. For example one personal theme can be a Mario Kart theme. Such a theme can permit Nintendo s Mario Kart styling to be pervasive across the vehicle cabin and various equipment e.g. present IVI system . In addition incoming information via SMS communications MMS communications sounds and or graphics can provide gamer updates from Nintendo or another content source. Moreover or as another alternative other Mario Kart fans who may be present in other vehicles can be identified. For another example another theme can be It s Friday after work. This personal theme can open up party floodgates and can set the mood in the vehicle cabin. In response to implementation of such a theme the floor mirrors and lighting of the customized vehicle can be configured to a theme of openness and freedom. Implementation of the customization can utilize or otherwise leverage the capability of a customization platform e.g. platform to detect time data and or a tagged location e.g. workplace location to initiate customization according to the theme. It should be appreciated that this theme may surprise and delight tired workers with the promise of the weekend. As described herein trusted others may engage in the theme to surprise the driver and or other occupants. For yet another example a personal theme can be an Antiquing theme which can be based on known driver preferences and can assist the driver with finding antiques by leveraging context such as location calendar availability and publicly tagged stops e.g. Maggie s Antiques and or routes. For still another example a Garage Sale Finder theme can be implemented. In this theme time sensitive public information e.g. data and or metadata can be utilized to direct a vehicle to normally untagged locations to prepare satisfactory e.g. optimized or nearly optimized routes based at least on available sales times and driver preferences. Customization information can permit configuring an interior theme of bargain hunting in order to set the mood of the vehicle occupant s for example by providing a tally of garage sales visited and or a real time leaderboard of the top garage sale hunters.

Other themes such as sports themes e.g. Manchester United theme or holiday specific themes can be implemented in accordance with the disclosure. In view of the rich information that can be accessed for customization in accordance with a personal theme or any other type of theme for customization of a vehicle the customization can be responsive to vehicular context information e.g. vehicle situation and or occupant state occupant condition occupant preference local events and location or the like.

The operational environment represents an example software implementation of the various aspects or features of the disclosure in which the processing or execution of operations described in connection with customization of a vehicle can be performed in response to execution of one or more software components at the computing device . It should be appreciated that the one or more software components can render the computing device or any other computing device that contains such components a particular machine for customization of a vehicle as described herein among other functional purposes. A software component can be embodied in or can comprise one or more computer accessible instructions e.g. computer readable and or computer executable instructions. In one scenario at least a portion of the computer accessible instructions can embody one or more of the example methods presented in and various call flows described herein. For instance to embody one such method at least the portion of the computer accessible instructions can be persisted e.g. stored made available or stored and made available in a computer storage non transitory medium and executed by a processor. The one or more computer accessible instructions that embody a software component can be assembled into one or more program modules for example that can be compiled linked and or executed at the computing device or other computing devices. Generally such program modules comprise computer code routines programs objects components information structures e.g. data structures and or metadata structures etc. that can perform particular tasks e.g. one or more operations in response to execution by one or more processors which can be integrated into the computing device or functionally coupled thereto.

The various example embodiments of the disclosure can be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that can be suitable for implementation of various aspects or features of the disclosure in connection with customization of a vehicle can comprise personal computers server computers laptop devices handheld computing devices such as mobile tablets wearable computing devices and multiprocessor systems. Additional examples can include set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network personal computers PCs minicomputers mainframe computers blade computers programmable logic controllers distributed computing environments that comprise any of the above systems or devices and the like.

As illustrated the computing device can comprise one or more processors a radio unit one or more input output I O interfaces a memory and a bus architecture also termed bus that functionally couples various functional elements of the computing device . The bus can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus and can permit exchange of information data metadata and or signaling between the processor s the I O interface s and or the memory or respective functional element therein. In certain scenarios the bus in conjunction with one or more internal programming interfaces also referred to as interface s can permit such exchange of information. The internal programming interfaces can embody one or more application programming interfaces APIs and in response to execution by a processor can permit exchange of information between different portions of the one or more theme customization component s . In scenarios in which processor s include multiple processors the computing device can utilize parallel computing.

The I O interface s permit communication of information between the computing device and an external device. As an example the external device can be embodied in or can comprise a sensor of the sensor s . As another example the external device can be embodied in or can comprise another computing device such as a network element e.g. a service component of the service component s or an end user device. Such communication can include direct communication or indirect communication such as exchange of information between the computing device and the external device via a network or elements thereof. As illustrated the I O interface s can comprise one or more of network adapter s peripheral adapter s and rendering unit s . Such adapter s can permit or facilitate connectivity between the external device and one or more of the processor s or the memory . In one aspect at least one of the network adapter s can couple functionally the computing device to one or more devices via one or more traffic and signaling pipes that can permit or facilitate exchange of traffic and or signaling between the computing device and the one or more devices . The device s contained in the one or more devices can be an electronic component or an electromechanical component having suitable architecture e.g. circuitry for a specific functionality computing lighting actuation sensing or the like . Such architecture can provide certain respective devices with computing functionality and associated computing resources e.g. processor s memory devices s bus structure and related communication bandwidth . For other device s contained in the one or more devices the architecture can provide nearly entirely analogic functionality.

Such network coupling provided at least in part by the at least one of the network adapter s can be implemented in a wired environment a wireless environment or both. The information that is communicated by the at least one network adapter can result from the implementation of one or more operations in a method of the disclosure. Such output can be any form of visual representation including but not limited to textual graphical animation audio tactile and the like. In certain embodiments each of the device s can have substantially the same architecture as the computing device .

The I O interface s can comprise rendering unit s that can include functional elements e.g. lights such as light emitting diodes a display such as liquid crystal display LCD combinations thereof or the like that can permit control of the operation of the computing device or can permit conveying or revealing operational conditions of the computing device .

As described herein the computing device also includes a radio unit that can permit the computing device to communicate wirelessly with other devices an IVI system a meter or other type of monitor component an RFID unit in a vehicle or the like . The radio unit can embody or can comprise the radio unit . In one embodiment the radio unit can comprise one or more antennas and a communication processing unit. In one embodiment e.g. example embodiment shown in the radio unit can comprise a set of one or more transmitters receivers and components therein amplifiers filters etc. functionally coupled to a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux unit a modulator demodulator mod demod unit also referred to as modem and a coder decoder unit also referred to as codec . Each of the transmitter s receiver s can form respective transceiver s that can transmit and receive wireless signals e.g. electromagnetic radiation via the one or more antennas .

Electronic components and associated circuitry such as mux demux unit codec and modem can permit or facilitate processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering and or modulation demodulation of signal s received by the computing device and signal s to be transmitted by such device. In one aspect received and transmitted wireless signals can be modulated and or coded or otherwise processed in accordance with one or more radio technology protocols e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or the like .

The electronic components in the described communication unit including the one or more transmitters receivers can exchange information e.g. data metadata code instructions signaling and related payload data combinations thereof or the like through a bus which can embody or can comprise at least one of a system bus an address bus a data bus a message bus a reference link or interface a combination thereof or the like. Each of the one or more receivers transmitters can convert signal from analog to digital and vice versa. In addition or in the alternative the receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Such operations may be conducted as part of various multiplexing schemes. As illustrated the mux demux unit is functionally coupled to the one or more receivers transmitters and can permit processing of signals in time and frequency domain. In one aspect the mux demux unit can multiplex and demultiplex information e.g. data metadata and or signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM or space division multiplexing SDM . In addition or in the alternative in another aspect the mux demux unit can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to most any code such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and the like. The modem can modulate and demodulate information e.g. data metadata signaling or a combination thereof according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like . In addition the processor s can permit the computing device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and the like.

The codec can operate on information e.g. data metadata signaling or a combination thereof in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for communication at least in part through the one or more transceivers formed from respective transmitter s receiver s . In one aspect such coding decoding schemes or related procedure s can be retained as a group of one or more computer accessible instructions computer readable instructions computer executable instructions or a combination thereof in memory . In a scenario in which wireless communication among the computing device and another device e.g. a device of the device s utilizes multiple input multiple output MIMO multiple input single output MISO single input multiple output SIMO or single input single output SISO operation the codec can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block coding SFBC coding and associated decoding. In addition or in the alternative the codec can extract information from data streams coded in accordance with a spatial multiplexing scheme. In one aspect to decode received information e.g. data metadata signaling or a combination thereof the codec can implement at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. The codec can utilize at least in part mux demux unit component and mod demod component to operate in accordance with aspects described herein.

The computing device can operate in a variety of wireless environments having wireless signals conveyed in different electromagnetic radiation EM frequency bands. To at least such end the radio unit can process code decode format etc. wireless signals within a set of one or more EM frequency bands also referred to as frequency bands comprising one or more of radio frequency RF portions of the EM spectrum microwave portion s of the EM spectrum or infrared IR portion of the EM spectrum. In one aspect the set of one or more frequency bands can include at least one of i all or most licensed EM frequency bands or ii all or most unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication.

In the example embodiment in certain implementations one or more of the mux demux unit the modem or the codec can utilize or otherwise leverage at least one of the processor s to implement the communication processing functionality described herein. In one aspect the at least one processor can execute one or more computer accessible instruction retained in memory in order to implement the communication processing functionality. In addition in connection at least with wireless communication the memory or a memory element therein such the functionality instructions storage can be embodied in or can comprise a removable element such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM .

The computing device also can include the bus which represents one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. As an illustration such architectures can comprise an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus a PCI Express bus a Personal Computer Memory Card Industry Association PCMCIA bus a Universal Serial Bus USB and the like. The bus and all buses described herein can be implemented over a wired or wireless network connection and each of the subsystems including the processor s the memory and memory elements therein and the I O interface s can be contained within one or more remote computing devices at physically separate locations connected through buses of this form in effect implementing a fully distributed system.

The computing device can comprise a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media transitory and non transitory that can be accessed by a computing device. In one aspect computer readable media can comprise computer non transitory storage media or computer readable non transitory storage media and communications media. Example computer readable non transitory storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computing device and can comprise for example both volatile and non volatile media and removable and or non removable media. In one aspect the memory can comprise computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM .

The memory can comprise functionality instructions storage and functionality information storage . The functionality instructions storage can comprise computer accessible instructions that in response to execution by at least one of the processor s can implement one or more of the functionalities of the disclosure. The computer accessible instructions can embody or can comprise one or more software components illustrated as theme customization component s . In one scenario execution of at least one component of the theme customization component s can implement one or more of the example methods and . For instance such execution can cause a processor that executes the at least one component to carry out a disclosed example method. It should be appreciated that in one aspect a processor of the processor s that executes at least one of the theme customization component s can retrieve information from or retain information in a memory element in the functionality information storage in order to operate in accordance with the functionality programmed or otherwise configured by the theme customization component s . Such information can include at least one of code instructions information structures or the like. At least one of the one or more interfaces e.g. application programming interface s can permit or facilitate communication of information between two or more components within the functionality instructions storage . The information that is communicated by the at least one interface can result from the implementation of one or more operations in a method of the disclosure. In certain embodiments one or more of the functionality instructions storage and the functionality information storage can be embodied in or can comprise removable non removable and or volatile non volatile computer storage media.

At least a portion of at least one of the theme customization component s or theme customization information can program or otherwise configure one or more of the processors to operate at least in accordance with the functionality described herein. In one embodiment e.g. example embodiment in the theme customization component s contained in the functionality instruction s storage can include the exchange component the theme composition component the configuration component and the utility component . It should be recognized that in such embodiment hardware or firmware functional elements of the exchange component can be embodied in suitable components of the computing device . In addition in example embodiment the functionality information storage can comprise the customization storage . One or more of the processor s can execute at least one of such components and utilize or otherwise leverage at least a portion of the information in the functionality information storage in order to provide customization of a vehicle in accordance with one or more aspects described herein.

It should be appreciated that in certain scenarios the functionality instruction s storage can embody or can comprise a computer readable non transitory storage medium having computer accessible instructions that in response to execution cause at least one processor e.g. one or more of processor s to perform a group of operations comprising the operations or blocks described in connection with the disclosed methods.

In addition the memory can comprise computer accessible instructions and information e.g. data and or metadata that permit or facilitate operation and or administration e.g. upgrades software installation any other configuration or the like of the computing device . Accordingly as illustrated the memory can comprise a memory element labeled operating system OS instruction s that contains one or more program modules that embody or include one or more OSs such as Windows operating system Unix Linux Symbian. Android Chromium and substantially any OS suitable for mobile computing devices or tethered computing devices. In one aspect the operational and or architecture complexity of the computing device can dictate a suitable OS. The memory also comprises a system information storage having data and or metadata that permits or facilitate operation and or administration of the computing device . Elements of the OS instruction s and the system information storage can be accessible or can be operated on by at least one of the processor s .

It should be recognized that while the functionality instructions storage and other executable program components such as the OS instruction s are illustrated herein as discrete blocks such software components can reside at various times in different memory components of the computing device and can be executed by at least one of the processor s . In certain scenarios an implementation of the theme customization component s can be retained on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

The computing device and or one of the device s can include a power supply not shown which can power up components or functional elements within such devices. The power supply can be a rechargeable power supply e.g. a rechargeable battery and it can include one or more transformers to achieve a power level suitable for operation of the computing device and or one of the device s and components functional elements and related circuitry therein. In certain scenarios the power supply can be attached to a conventional power grid to recharge and ensure that such devices can be operational. In one aspect the power supply can include an I O interface e.g. one of the network adapter s to connect operationally to the conventional power grid. In another aspect the power supply can include an energy conversion component such as a solar panel to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy for the computing device and or one of the device s .

As described herein the computing device can operate in a networked environment by utilizing connections to one or more devices which can be remotely located. As an illustration a remote device can be a personal computer a portable computer a server a router a network computer a peer device or other common network node a sensor a control component an actuator a transducer a lighting fixture a terminal display or any other display unit such as a customizable surface any combination of the foregoing and so on. As described herein connections physical and or logical between the computing device and a computing device of the one or more remote devices can be made via one or more traffic and signaling pipes which can comprise wireline link s and or wireless link s and several network elements such as routers or switches concentrators servers and the like that form a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are conventional and commonplace in dwellings offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets local area networks and wide area networks.

In one or more embodiments such as example embodiment shown in one or more of the disclosed methods for example can be practiced in distributed computing environments e.g. grid based environments where tasks can be performed by remote processing devices at least one of device s that are functionally coupled e.g. communicatively linked or otherwise coupled through a network having traffic and signaling pipes and related network elements. In a distributed computing environment in one aspect one or more software components such as program modules can be located in both a local computing device and at least one remote computing device such as computing device . As illustrated and described herein the at least one remote computing device e.g. computing device can have substantially the same architecture and associated functionality as the computing device . For instance the computing device can comprise processor s I O interface s radio unit and a memory where a bus architecture can couple functionally two or more of such elements. The radio unit can have the same or similar architecture to that of the radio unit see e.g. and can operate in substantially the same manner as that described in connection with the radio unit . The memory can comprise a functionality instructions storage having one or more theme customization component s and a functionality information storage having theme customization information . The memory also can comprise OS instruction s and system information storage that can permit at least in part operation and or administration of the computing device . One or more internal programming interfaces represented as interface s in can permit or facilitate exchange of information between the theme customization component s and the functionality information storage . In a scenario in which several components are present in the group of theme customization component s at least one interface of the interface s can permit or facilitate exchange of information between at least two of such components.

In one implementation the computing device can embody or can comprise the exchange component and the theme composition component whereas as the computing device can comprise or can embody the configuration component and the utility component respectively. Other distributions of the exchange component the theme composition component the configuration component and the utility component can be implemented. Similarly the customization storage also can be distributed between the computing device and the computing device or other devices such as dedicated storage or memory devices .

In view of the aspects described herein example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosure can be better appreciated with reference to the flowchart in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation the example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of blocks with each block representing an action or an operation in a method for example . However it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed methods are not limited by the order of blocks and associated actions or operations as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that are shown and described herein. For example the various methods or processes of the disclosure can be alternatively represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Furthermore not all illustrated blocks and associated action s may be required to implement a method in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods or processes can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

It should be appreciated that the methods of the disclosure can be retained on an article of manufacture or computer readable medium to permit or facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to a computing device e.g. a desktop computer a mobile computer such as a tablet computer or a smartphone a gaming console a mobile telephone a blade computer a programmable logic controller and the like for execution and thus implementation by a processor of the computing device or for storage in a memory thereof or functionally coupled thereto. In one aspect one or more processors such as processor s that implement e.g. execute one or more of the disclosed methods can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement the one or more methods. The code instructions can provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to implement the methods described herein.

At block customization information indicative of a feature of the customization theme e.g. the personal theme or the corporate theme is generated based on at least a portion of the theme information. Block can be referred to as a generating operation and in one aspect can comprise subscribing to a content service that can supply media assets and or messaging content such as MMS communications SMS communication or the like. As described herein in certain embodiments the content service can be provided in a distributed fashion via one or more networked service components functionally coupled to a repository. In addition or in the alternative the generating operation can comprise receiving information indicative of the feature of the customization theme from the content service. In one implementation the feature of the customization theme can comprise one or more of a feature of a recreational category a feature of an educational category or a feature of an administrative category feature. As described herein the recreational category can comprise one or more of a gaming category a shopping category a dining category a music venue category or an arts category. The administrative category can comprise a scheduling category. It should be appreciated that the feature of the customization theme is not restricted to being a feature of the foregoing categories and substantially any category that can be devised by a vehicle occupant or a third party theme developer is contemplated. These categories can be referred to as theme categories.

In certain implementations the generating operation can comprise inferring content associated with the feature of the customization theme. In addition or in the alternative as described herein the generating operation can comprise subscribing to a content service e.g. one of the service s having the content that is inferred to be pertinent to the customization theme. In other implementations the generating operation can comprise receiving content associated with the customization theme from an authorized remote device and persisting e.g. storing and making available at least a portion of the content. At least the portion of the content can be persisted in customization storage e.g. customization storage or any other repository or memory device integrated into or functionally coupled to a computing device that implements at least a portion of the subject example method . As described herein the customization theme can be or can comprise one of a gaming theme a shopping theme a recreational theme such as a holiday or seasonal theme a sports theme an adventure theme a family theme a business theme a religious theme any combination thereof or the like. Yet it should be appreciated that the scope of the customization theme e.g. a personal theme or a corporate theme can be unconstrained and can comprise any information devised by a vehicle occupant an organization or corporation or a third party theme developer of the customization theme.

In scenarios in which location information is accessed as part of acquiring information indicative of a customization theme the generating operation can comprise generating a satisfactory route from a current location of the vehicle to the location associated with the customization theme. A satisfactory route can be an optimal route or a nearly optimal route.

At block a vehicle component is configured to supply at least a portion of the customization information. Block can be referred to as a configuring operation and in one aspect can comprise configuring one or more of an audio component a display component a temperature control component a navigation component a lighting fixture a seat firmness control component a speed control component a speed monitoring component an acceleration control component an acceleration monitoring component a breaking control component or a safety component. In another aspect the configuring operation can comprise transmitting to the vehicle component one or more instructions that in response to execution cause the vehicle component to restrain at least one of speed of the vehicle acceleration of the vehicle or an inter vehicle distance associated with the vehicle according at least in part to the portion of the customization information. As described herein the instructions can be computer readable computer executable instructions.

At block at least a portion of the customization information is supplied in response to operating the vehicle component. Block can be referred to as a supplying operation and in one aspect can comprise rendering at least the portion of the customization information. In another aspect the supplying operation can comprise rendering information indicative of a threshold that restrains at least one of speed of the vehicle acceleration of the vehicle or an inter vehicle distance associated with the vehicle according at least in part to the portion of the customization information. As described herein in certain scenarios one or more of such thresholds can defined or otherwise configured based at least on an occupant of the vehicle that is being customized. In certain embodiments such thresholds can be persisted e.g. stored and made available in a repository a memory device or customization storage e.g. customization storage .

It should be appreciated that blocks are similar to blocks and can be implemented in accordance therewith as described herein. It should also be appreciated that implementation of blocks can customize the vehicle in response to a specific context. In certain scenarios customization in response to fulfillment of a criterion for vehicular customization can comprise switching from a first customization theme to a second customization theme. For instance customization according to nature theme can contemplate switching among four different themes associated with the seasons of the year. In other scenarios such a customization can comprise switching features within a customization theme such as reconfiguring certain elements of the customization theme e.g. information objects such as data structures and rendering thereof or enabling or disabling of certain functionality such as reception of communications e.g. MMS communication. SMS communication and the like . For example the theme It s Friday after work can have specific features on the birthday or an anniversary of an occupant of the vehicle.

Various advantages of the disclosure over conventional technologies for vehicle customization emerge from the present specification and annexed drawings. One example advantage may be the creation of digital customizations that can provide a substantially richer more holistic and connected experience with sources of customization. Implementation of a customization theme can provide for example information associated with the theme. Similarly implementation of a customization theme can cause or otherwise facilitate connectivity with remote relatives. For instance as described herein implementation of a customization theme may permit to render messages or other content received from a remote relative. Another example advantage may be the dynamic aspect of digital customizations which can be implemented in response to specific context or events for example. Yet another example advantage may be that the vehicular customizations described herein can permit a vehicle to be re customized without a need to change or replace some or all physical artifacts that typically are utilized to customize a vehicle.

Various embodiments of the disclosure may take the form of an entirely or partially hardware embodiment an entirely or partially software embodiment or a combination of software and hardware e.g. a firmware embodiment . Furthermore as described herein various embodiments of the disclosure e.g. methods and systems may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer readable non transitory storage medium having computer accessible instructions e.g. computer readable and or computer executable instructions such as computer software encoded or otherwise embodied in such storage medium. Those instructions can be read or otherwise accessed and executed by one or more processors to perform or permit performance of the operations described herein. The instructions can be provided in any suitable form such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code assembler code combinations of the foregoing and the like. Any suitable computer readable non transitory storage medium may be utilized to form the computer program product. For instance the computer readable medium may include any tangible non transitory medium for storing information in a form readable or otherwise accessible by one or more computers or processor s functionally coupled thereto. Non transitory storage media can include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory etc.

Embodiments of the operational environments and methods or techniques are described herein with reference to block diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods systems apparatuses and computer program products. It can be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations respectively can be implemented by computer accessible instructions. In certain implementations the computer accessible instructions may be loaded or otherwise incorporated into onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable information processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the operations or functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks can be implemented in response to execution at the computer or processing apparatus.

Unless otherwise expressly stated it is in no way intended that any protocol procedure process or method set forth herein be construed as requiring that its acts or steps be performed in a specific order. Accordingly where a process or method claim does not actually recite an order to be followed by its acts or steps or it is not otherwise specifically recited in the claims or descriptions of the subject disclosure that the steps are to be limited to a specific order it is in no way intended that an order be inferred in any respect. This holds for any possible non express basis for interpretation including matters of logic with respect to arrangement of steps or operational flow plain meaning derived from grammatical organization or punctuation the number or type of embodiments described in the specification or annexed drawings or the like.

As used in this application the terms component. environment platform system architecture. interface unit. module and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities. Such entities may be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable portion of software a thread of execution a program and or a computing device. For example both a software application executing on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution. A component may be localized on one computing device or distributed between two or more computing devices. As described herein a component can execute from various computer readable non transitory media having various data structures stored thereon. Components can communicate via local and or remote processes in accordance for example with a signal either analogic or digital having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as a wide area network with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is controlled by a software application or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. An interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or other programming components. The terms component environment platform system architecture interface unit module can be utilized interchangeably and can be referred to collectively as functional elements.

In the present specification and annexed drawings reference to a processor is made. As utilized herein a processor can refer to any computing processing unit or device comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit IC an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A processor can be implemented as a combination of computing processing units. In certain embodiments processors can utilize nanoscale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment.

In addition in the present specification and annexed drawings terms such as store storage data store data storage memory repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component of the disclosure refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components forming the memory. It can be appreciated that the memory components or memories described herein embody or comprise non transitory computer storage media that can be readable or otherwise accessible by a computing device. Such media can be implemented in any methods or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions information structures program modules or other information objects. The memory components or memories can be either volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. In addition the memory components or memories can be removable or non removable and or internal or external to a computing device or component. Example of various types of non transitory storage media can comprise hard disc drives zip drives CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices flash memory cards or other types of memory cards cartridges or any other non transitory medium suitable to retain the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

As an illustration non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The disclosed memory components or memories of operational environments described herein are intended to comprise one or more of these and or any other suitable types of memory.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language generally is not intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

What has been described herein in the present specification and annexed drawings includes examples of systems devices and techniques that can provide a customization of a vehicle. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of elements and or methods for purposes of describing the various features of the disclosure but it can be recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed features are possible. Accordingly it may be apparent that various modifications can be made to the disclosure without departing from the scope or spirit thereof. In addition or in the alternative other embodiments of the disclosure may be apparent from consideration of the specification and annexed drawings and practice of the disclosure as presented herein. It is intended that the examples put forward in the specification and annexed drawings be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

