---

title: Providing context menu based on predicted commands
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for providing a context menu based on predicted commands. One embodiment involves identifying historical commands previously performed in an application. The embodiment also involves determining that each of a subset of commands from the historical commands has a higher correlation with a trigger command than others of the plurality of historical commands. The embodiment also involves generating a context menu including the subset of commands in response to receiving a request for the context menu after performing the trigger command in the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09519401&OS=09519401&RS=09519401
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09519401
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130918
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer implemented methods and systems and more particularly relates to providing a context menu based on predicted commands.

Computing applications can be developed for touch devices. Some devices such as smart phones may include small touch display areas. In some applications a context menu can be accessed in response to inputs such as but not limited to right clicking a mouse pressing a hot key or combination of keys etc.

Touch devices such as smart phone may be unsuitable for accessing the same version of a context menu that may be displayed on computing devices having larger display areas. For example is a modeling diagram depicting an application executed on a computing device with a small display screen. An application executed on the computing device may provide a context menu including commands e.g. Command A Command B etc. that are associated with an object .

In some cases a context menu may be too large in one or more dimensions for a user to view the full context menu on a smaller display screen. For example is a modeling diagram depicting a context menu exceeding the size of the display screen of the computing device. Presenting a context menu associated with object may obscure some of the commands . In other cases a context menu may be scaled to fit the smaller display such that one or more menu options are difficult for a user to discern. For example is a modeling diagram depicting a context menu being scaled to fit the size of the display screen of the computing device. Scaling the context menu may cause the text for one or more of the commands to be difficult to read on a display device having a small display area.

It is desirable to efficiently use available display area for displaying context menus in an application.

One embodiment involves identifying historical commands previously performed in an application. The embodiment also involves determining that each of a subset of commands from the historical commands has a higher correlation with a trigger command than other historical commands. The embodiment also involves generating a context menu including the subset of commands in response to receiving a request for the context menu after performing the trigger command in the application.

These illustrative embodiments are mentioned not to limit or define the disclosure but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Additional embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description and further description is provided there.

Computer implemented systems and methods are disclosed for providing a context menu based on predicted commands.

The following non limiting example is provided to help introduce the general subject matter of certain embodiments. An application that is executed on a device with a smaller display screen e.g. a smart phone or tablet computer can provide a context menu to a user in response to a suitable input. A context menu is a menu in a graphical interface that includes a limited set of commands that are available in the current context of the application. For example a context menu may present a limited set of commands that can be performed on a selected object in the application rather than a full set of commands that can be performed in the application. For a device such as a smart phone or tablet the set of commands for the selected object may include a larger number of commands than can be displayed on the display screen in a usable manner. For example a display screen may be large enough to display only five commands from a context menu that includes ten commands. To resolve this issue the application can select a subset of the commands for the context menu based on an analysis of previous sequences of commands performed in the application. For example a previous sequence of commands may include a command to delete an existing object followed by a command to insert a new object. The application can determine that a delete command is more frequently followed by an insert command than any other command. The application can respond to a request for a context menu after a delete command is performed by providing a context menu that is limited to the insert command. The context menu being limited to the insert command can avoid cluttering a limited display area with commands that a user is less likely to select in a given context.

In accordance with one embodiment a processing device can provide a context menu based on predicted commands. The processing device can identify historical commands previously performed in an application. The processing device can also determine a subset of the commands to be included in a context menu. The subset of commands can be determined based on each of the subset commands having a higher correlation with a trigger command than other historical commands. For example an insert command can be highly correlated with a delete command or a rename command can be highly correlate with an insert command. A request for the context menu can be received after the trigger command is performed in the application. For example rapidly tapping twice on an object after inserting the object in a graphical interface may request a context menu for the selected object. The processing device can generate a context menu including the subset of commands in response to the request. For example a context menu provided after inserting a selected object may be limited to the commands highly correlated with an insert command such as but not limited to a rename command.

As used herein the term command refers to anything used to direct a computer to perform an operation or action including but not limited to receiving user input in the form of typing selection of an icon or selection of an option in a menu or elsewhere.

As used herein the term historical command is used to refer to a command previously performed in the application. In some embodiments a historical command can be recorded during a session in which a user or other entity uses the application. In additional or alternative embodiments a historical command can be recorded during previous sessions in which the user or other entity uses the application.

As used herein the term correlation is used to refer to a relationship between two or more commands. For example a first command may be correlated with a second command based on the first command e.g. an insert object command historically being performed immediately before or immediately after the second command e.g. a delete object command .

As used herein the term trigger command is used to refer to a command used to determine identify or otherwise obtain one or more correlated commands. For example a trigger command may be a command to insert an object where other commands are identified as correlated to the insert command and presented in a context menu based on that determined correlation. A trigger command may but does not necessarily initiate display of a context menu. For example a computer system may respond to a selection of an insert command by inserting an object and presenting a context menu with commands that are correlated with the insert command. In other instances a computer system may respond to a selection of an insert command by inserting an object and then respond to a command initiating a context menu by presenting a context menu with commands that are correlated with the last received command i.e. commands correlated with the insert command that was received immediately before the context menu command was received.

As used herein the term context menu is used to refer to a menu in a graphical interface that includes a limited set of commands that are available in a current context of the application. A context for the application can be determined based at least in part on one or more recent inputs received to a graphical interface of the application. For example a context for an application may be based at least in part on the selection of an object in a graphical interface. A context menu may include a limited set of commands that can be performed on the selected object in the application rather than a full set of commands that can be performed in the application.

In some embodiments determining a correlation with a trigger command can include determining a frequency at which a given command has historically been performed subsequent to the trigger command being performed. For example an application may access a log or other record that describes a history of commands performed in the application. The application can identify all instances in which an insert command was performed. For each instance in which an insert command was performed the application can identify a respective command performed after the insert command. The application can determine that a rename command was performed after an insert command for 40 of the instances of the insert command a zoom command was performed after an insert command for 30 of the instances of the insert command a copy command was performed after an insert command for 20 of the instances of the insert command and a delete command was performed after an insert command for 10 of the instances of the insert command. In some embodiments a subset of commands can be selected for the context menu based on a threshold frequency. For example the context menu following an insert command can include commands having a frequency greater than or equal to 25 . The rename and zoom commands can be included in the context menu and the copy and delete commands can be excluded from the context menu.

In additional or alternative embodiments determining a correlation with a trigger command can include determining a frequency at which a given command is included in a sequence of commands that includes both the trigger command and at least one additional command. For example a rename command can be frequently included in a sequence of commands that includes a delete command followed by an insert command. The application can select the rename command based on detecting the performance of a sequence of commands including both the delete command and the insert command.

As used herein the term sequence of commands is used to refer to multiple commands being performed in an application where each command in the sequence of commands is performed either immediately before or immediate after another command in the sequence of commands.

In some embodiments the historical commands can be determined based on a profile of a user or other entity accessing the application during a session. The application can identify a profile associated with the session and select a record or other data describing the historical commands. The analysis of historical commands can be limited to the historical commands associated with the user profile. Limiting the analysis to the historical commands associated with the user profile can increase the relevance of the generated context menu to a given user accessing the application.

As used herein the term entity is used to refer to an individual organization or other logical identity that can be uniquely identified by an application or service. An entity can be identified by reference to one or more client accounts and or by reference to a software identifier and or hardware identifier associated with an application and or device used to execute access or otherwise use an application.

As used herein the term session is used to refer to a period of time during which an entity executes accesses or otherwise uses an application. A session can be delineated by a first point in time at which an entity is authenticated to use the application and a second point in time at which the authentication is terminated e.g. via the entity logging out of the application or the authentication expiring after a period of inactivity .

Referring now to the drawings is a block diagram depicting an example computing system for implementing certain embodiments.

The computing system can include a processor that is communicatively coupled to a memory and that executes computer executable program instructions and or accesses information stored in the memory . The processor may comprise a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a state machine or other processing device. The processor can include any of a number of computer processing devices including one. Such a processor can include or may be in communication with a computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the steps described herein.

The computing system can also include a bus . The bus can communicatively couple one or more components of the computing system .

The computing system can also include and or be communicatively coupled to a number of external or internal devices such as input or output devices. For example the computing system is shown with an input output I O interface a display device and an input device . Non limiting examples of a display device include a screen integrated with the computing system a monitor external and coupled with the computing system etc. Non limiting examples of an input device include a touch screen a touch pad an external mouse etc. In some embodiments the display device and the input device can be separate devices. In other embodiments the display device and the input device can be integrated in the same device. For example a display device may be a screen and the input device may be one or more components providing touch screen functions for the display device such as cameras for imaging a touch area or pressure sensors for detecting pressure changes caused by a touch.

The computing system can modify access or otherwise use electronic content. The electronic content may be resident in any suitable computer readable medium and execute on any suitable processor. In one embodiment the electronic content can reside in the memory at the computing system . In another embodiment the electronic content can be accessed by the computing system from a remote content provider via a data network.

The memory can include any suitable computer readable medium. A computer readable medium may include but is not limited to electronic optical magnetic or other storage device capable of providing a processor with computer readable instructions or other program code. Other examples comprise but are not limited to a floppy disk CD ROM DVD magnetic disk memory chip ROM RAM an ASIC a configured processor optical storage magnetic tape or other magnetic storage or any other medium from which a computer processor can read instructions. The instructions may comprise processor specific instructions generated by a compiler and or an interpreter from code written in any suitable computer programming language including for example C C C Visual Basic Java Python Perl JavaScript and ActionScript.

A menu module stored in the memory can configure the processor to generate a context menu for rendering in a graphical interface. In some embodiments the menu module can be a stand alone application executed by the processor . In other embodiments the menu module can be a software module included in or accessible by a separate application executed by the processor that is configured to modify access or otherwise use the electronic content.

The computing system can include any suitable computing device for executing the menu module . Non limiting examples of a computing device include a desktop computer a tablet computer a laptop computer or any other computing device suitable for rendering the electronic content.

The display device may be too small to display all of the contextual commands in a context menu for the object . The menu module can generate a context menu that is limited to predicted commands for a user or other entity by determining a correlation between triggering actions detected by the menu module and one or more of the contextual commands . For example the menu module can analyze a history of past commands to determine a context in which the first command is performed. The menu module can determine that a first command is historically followed by a second command or otherwise correlated with the second command. The menu module can provide a context menu subset that includes the second command.

In a non limiting example the menu module can generate a context menu based on recently performed commands or other trigger commands in an application such as a development environment utilizing a Content Repository API for Java JCR . A developer entity using the development environment may decide to reorganize objects or other components of a web application developed using the development environment. The developer may reorganize objects or other components by deleting unwanted objects adding new objects and renaming the new objects. The menu module can determine that a developer that performs a trigger command such as a delete command that is associated with a given context e.g. reorganizing or otherwise modifying component of a web application in a development environment is likely to perform an additional delete command. The menu module can also determine for the given context that the developer is likely to insert objects after deleting other objects and to rename the new objects after insertion. The menu module can thus provide a context menu that includes a delete command an insert command and a rename command in response to detecting a context in which the user is deleting objects from an application in a development environment.

In some embodiments the menu module can be implemented on a web based application. For example a web based development environment may include the menu module . The web based development environment can log or otherwise record commands performed by a given entity in the development environment. The record of historical commands can be associated with a profile for the entity. For example in a development environment using JCR an entity can perform a REpresentational State Transfer REST operation to modify or otherwise access an application under development. The menu module can identify one or more commands from one or more REST operations. The menu module can log or otherwise record the identified commands and associate the identified commands with a profile for the entity. For example the menu module can record a predetermined number of recent commands e.g. the ten most recent commands and record switches between different commands i.e. sequences of different commands . Analyzing switches between different commands can allow the menu module to identify patterns in the actions of the entity with respect to a development environment or other application. In a non limiting example an entity can select objects in a web application under development by clicking the objects using a mouse pointer or by triggering a touch event on a touch based input device. The selection command can be sent via an Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX request or other suitable request to a server at which the menu module is executed. Based on the analyzed information about the entity s use of historical commands the menu module executed on the server can respond to a selection with a context menu limited to commands predicted from the entity s historical commands. The commands in the context menu can be commands correlated with a trigger command.

In some embodiments the menu module can select a subset of the contextual commands based on a threshold frequency at which each of the subset of commands is performed after a trigger command e.g. a delete command . For example the context menu following a delete command can include commands having a frequency greater than or equal to 15 . The insert rotate and copy commands can be included in the context menu and the delete and rename commands can be excluded from the context menu.

In some embodiments the menu module can determine correlations between trigger commands and other contextual commands based on sequences of commands. For example a user may delete two text blocks add two images at the positions of the deleted text blocks and update a name or description for the website based on the added components. The menu module can respond to a subsequent deletion command by presenting a context menu with a subset of the full context menu commands where the subset includes the insertion command. The menu module can determine a frequency at which a given command is associated with a sequence of two or more other commands.

For example as depicted in for a sequence of commands including a delete command and an insert command 

The subset can be used to generate a context menu that is limited to the subset . For example is a modeling diagram depicting a context menu being provided that is limited to the selected subset of the contextual commands . The menu module can update a list of historical commands based on which of the contextual commands is selected from the context menu .

In some embodiments the context menu may not include one of the contextual commands desired by a user. A user can provide an additional input representing a request for a full context menu. The full context menu can include all of the contextual commands . The full context menu can replace the context menu in response to receiving the request for the full context menu.

The method involves identifying historical commands previously performed in an application as shown in block . The processor of the computing system can execute the menu module or other suitable programming instructions to identify the historical commands.

In some embodiments the menu module can differentiate between different types of objects . For example the menu module can limit an analysis of historical commands to commands performed with respect to a specific object or within a specific group of objects . The menu module can determine context menu for an object or a group of objects that are associated with a common list of commands that perform the same respective functions with each of the objects in the group.

The method further involves determining that each of a subset of commands from the historical commands has a higher correlation with a trigger command than other historical commands as shown in block . For example the processor of the computing system can execute the menu module or other suitable programming instructions to determine which of the contextual commands has a higher correlation with a trigger command e.g. an insertion of the object as described above with respect to .

In some embodiments the menu module can restrict the analysis to a predetermined number of historical commands. For example for a given trigger command the menu module can analyze sequences of commands including five commands to determine which commands are correlated with the trigger command.

In some embodiments the menu module can associate data describing historical commands with an entity profile for a user or other entity that is logged into an application that includes or uses the menu module . An entity profile can be used to limit the number of historical commands analyzed by the menu module . For example the menu module can analyze historical commands and or sequences of commands performed by an entity during a session initiated by the entity. Limiting the historical commands analyzed by the menu module to historical commands associated with a given profile can be used to generate a context menu that is specific to a given entity.

The method further involves generating a context menu including the subset of commands in response to receiving a request for the context menu after performing the trigger command in the application as shown in block . For example the processor of the computing system can execute the menu module or other suitable programming instructions to generate the context menu as described above with respect to .

In some embodiments the menu module can generate a contextual menu using predicted commands based on a size of a display device and or a size of a graphical interface used by an application. For example the menu module can determine that a size of a display area for the display device and or a graphical interface for the application is less than a threshold size. The menu module can provide the context menu that is limited to the subset of the contextual commands based on the size of the display area and or graphical interface being less than the threshold size. A JavaScript function or other suitable function of a programming language used to implement the menu module can be executed to determine the size of the display area and or graphical interface.

In additional or alternative embodiments the context menu can be customized to the size of the display area of the display device and or a graphical interface for an application. For example a context menu can include fewer commands for smaller display area or graphical interface sizes and can include more commands for larger display area or graphical interface sizes.

Numerous specific details are set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However those skilled in the art will understand that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances methods apparatuses or systems that would be known by one of ordinary skill have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussion utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and identifying or the like refer to actions or processes of a computing device such as one or more computers or a similar electronic computing device or devices that manipulate or transform data represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the computing platform.

The system or systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provide a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor based computer systems accessing stored software that programs or configures the computing system from a general purpose computing apparatus to a specialized computing apparatus implementing one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. Any suitable programming scripting or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software to be used in programming or configuring a computing device.

Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be performed in the operation of such computing devices. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied for example blocks can be re ordered combined and or broken into sub blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.

The use of adapted to or configured to herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally the use of based on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings lists and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

