---

title: Automatic negative question handling
abstract: A contact center system can receive messages from social media sites or centers. The system can review long messages by identifying content in the long message with negative sentiment. The content with negative sentiment is further analyzed to determine whether the identified content is actionable. If the identified content is actionable, the communication system can automatically routed the long message to an agent for response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432325&OS=09432325&RS=09432325
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09432325
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130906
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 809 737 filed Apr. 8 2013 entitled SENTIMENT FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH CONTACT CENTER COMMUNICATIONS which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it teaches and for all purposes.

Communication with customers and the importance of addressing customer concerns continues to grow in importance. Customers have more access to arenas to voice their concerns. Often a dissatisfied customer can create a great amount of negative publicity by airing grievances through social media. The customer s message can be long and involved. Long messages tend to be harder to handle because of the density of the information and the inefficiencies with ferreting out specific negative comments.

In general organizations need an efficient way to evaluate social media comments to address negative sentiment in the public forum.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Embodiments presented herein provide a method for determining an agent routing in a contact center the method comprises receiving by a processor a long social media message from a consumer identifying content in the long social media message with negative sentiment determining whether the identified content is actionable and if the identified content is actionable providing the long social media message to an agent for response.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the long social media message includes two or more sentences concepts questions statements postings segments and or interactions.

An aspect of the above method further comprises receiving two or more social media messages wherein the long social media message is one of the two or more social media messages and determining to review the long social media message from the two or more social media messages.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein negative sentiment is determined by one or more text processing techniques.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein actionable content is determined by one or more language processing techniques.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein one of the language processing techniques is object focused analysis.

An aspect of the above method further comprises at least one of sorting the parsed actionable content or ordering the parsed actionable content.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the actionable content is sorted or ordered based on one or more of a degree of negative sentiment an information density temporal information or intent.

An aspect of the above method further comprises based on a highest ranked actionable content in the sort or the order providing the long social media message to the agent.

Embodiments also include a computer readable medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions that cause a computing system to execute a method for generating an agent routing the instructions comprising instructions to receive by a processor a long social media message from a consumer instructions to identify content in the long social media message with negative sentiment instructions to determine whether the identified content is actionable instructions to parse the actionable content instructions to sort the parsed actionable content instructions to order the sorted actionable content and based on the order instructions to provide the long social media message to an agent for response.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises instructions to receive two or more social media messages wherein the long social media message is one of the two or more social media messages and instructions to determine to review the long social media message from the two or more social media messages. It should be noted that a long message can include one or more related postings such as in Facebook with numerous comments that may be handled as a single long message.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein negative sentiment is determined by one or more text processing techniques and wherein actionable content is determined by one or more language processing techniques.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein the actionable content is sorted or ordered based on one or more of a degree of negative sentiment an information density temporal information or intent.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein a routing decision to an agent is based on a highest ranked actionable content in the order.

Embodiments also include a communication system comprising a social media gateway in communication with a social media network the social media gateway operable to receive a long social media message from a customer on the social media network a dialog system in communication with the social media gateway the dialog system operable to determine an agent routing for the long social media message wherein the dialog system compromises a text processing component that is operable to receive and analyze the long social media message wherein the text processing component compromises an negative sentiment analyzer operable to identify content in the long social media message with negative sentiment an actionable text analyzer in communication with the negative sentiment analyzer wherein the actionable text analyzer is operable to determine whether the identified content is actionable a parser in communication with the actionable text analyzer wherein the parser is operable to parse the actionable content a sorter order in communication with the parser wherein the sorter order is operable to one or more of sort or order the actionable content and wherein based on at least one of the sort or the order the text processing component provides the long social media message to an agent interface to route the long social media message to an agent for response.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the text processing component is further operable to receive two or more social media messages wherein the long social media message is one of the two or more social media messages and determine to review the long social media message from the two or more social media messages.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein negative sentiment is determined by one or more text processing techniques wherein actionable content is determined by one or more language processing techniques.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the actionable content is sorted or ordered based on one or more of a degree of negative sentiment an information density temporal information or intent.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein a routing decision to an agent is based on a highest ranked actionable content in the order.

The proposed embodiments can determine sentiment and employ language analysis to find automatically negative questions for routing to an agent display which saves agent time provides improved customer service and prevents confusion.

Empirical analysis of long messages on social media channels can indicate that the longer the message the more likely it is to be a negative complaint and or problem description of some kind i.e. it is unlike that a person would write a 20 000 word text to praise a company for good service . Long postings often are presented in the form of a story monologue detailing some lengthy interaction between the customer and the company from the writer s point of view. These monologs may contain a historical timeline of interaction on multiple problems of which previous problems may or may not be related to the current issue that stimulated the person the write e.g. The microphone on my Samsung S3 stopped working a month after I bought it. I took it back to the store and the sales guy swapped it for a new one. Everything was great after that but now it is dropping the Internet connection whenever I am trying to use the browser. . As the example shows the monologues may also contain positive and negative sentiment statements. The monologue might also include a long sequence of detailed actions that occurred before the writer felt compelled to write the monologue.

The system described herein can first search the incoming posts for sentences of negative sentiment and then can employ language analysis to eliminate words and or phrases that are not communicating any useful information questions or intent i.e. I hate united or Delta sucks sucks sucks. is not useful . The method of analysis may include focusing on the object of the sentiment to determine if the object is specific enough to be acted upon. For example Hating Delta does not provide detail on an issue but hating the baggage fees is a problem upon which the company might be able to take action. This analysis may also require co reference resolution to address statements like I hate you. Finally the list of identified items can be analyzed and ranked according to negative sentiment information density temporal information intent etc. The most useful recent negative question or statement may then guide how to route and display the message for agent handling.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects can be separately claimed.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

The term social media network or social media is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Generally social media are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services. Examples of social media sites can include one or more of but is not limited to Facebook Twitter Pantip LinkedIn etc.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements of the embodiment without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A block diagram depicting components of a communication system is shown in . In particular the communication system can include a contact center . In general the contact center can be in communication with one or more customer endpoints or devices via one or more communication networks . Examples of customer endpoints can include one or more of but are not limited to smartphones desktop computers laptop computers or any other device capable of supporting communications between a customer and a customer service or other agent associated with the contact center using written oral and or electronic communications. Accordingly communications between the contact center and the customer endpoints can comprise email instant messaging a telephone call short message system or other real time or non real time communications. The communication network can include the Internet a local area network LAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN wireless networks or a plurality of networks in any combination.

The contact center generally includes a call or contact center server such as an automatic contact or call distribution system ACD server . The ACD server is illustratively the Communication Manager enterprise communication based ACD system available from Avaya Inc. The ACD server is interconnected to a plurality of agent workstations or endpoints . For example the agent workstations may be connected to the ACD server by an enterprise network or networks .

The contact center server generally functions to connect agent workstations to customer devices or endpoints through the communication network to allow the agents to service customer contacts . The contacts can comprise written electronic communications. However contacts are not necessarily limited to written communications. For example the contact center can additionally handle voice contacts. As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art after consideration of the present disclosure the contact center server can maintain one or more queues for organizing and maintaining or holding contacts waiting for handling by a contact center agent . For example a plurality of queues can be provided to sort contacts according to various parameters. Agents associated with the agent workstations are assigned to provide services to contacts that have been placed within one or more of the queues based on availability and or weighting factors. Moreover the workstations which can comprise general purpose computers thin client devices or other devices generally support the delivery of customer contacts to associated agents and to receive replies to the customer contacts from the agents . In addition the agent workstations can include a user output in the form of a display that can present a determined sentiment or sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to associated agents .

In addition system as described herein can include one or more supervisor or administrator devices . The supervisor device is generally in communication with the contact center server via the communication network and or the enterprise network . For example if the supervisor device is on the premises of the contact center communications with the contact center server may be over a portion of the enterprise network comprising a wired or wireless network. As another example the supervisor device may be in communication with the contact center server over the communication network for example via a cellular telephony data network a wired or wireless connection outside of the enterprise network or the like. In general the supervisor device comprises functionality that allows a supervisor to monitor the health of the contact center and to control aspects of the operation of the contact center . Moreover the supervisor device can present a sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to a supervisor . Accordingly the supervisor device can comprise any device including a mobile device capable of presenting information to a supervisor . Accordingly examples of a supervisor device include but are not limited to a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer a desktop computer a netbook or the like.

A further embodiment of the communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a contact center a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network 1 social media network 2 and or social media network 3 . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network s can be any network as described in conjunction with which allow communication between the contact center and the one or more social media networks and or . The network s can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network s provides communication capability for the contact center to communicate with websites or systems corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . The network s may be as described in conjunction with .

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites and or . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may include a dialog system and a social media gateway . While the dialog system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact center system in other situations the dialog system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the contact center and or executed by a third party. The dialog system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the dialog system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API 1 social media network API 2 and or social media network API 3 . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to translate those messages that should be received by the dialog system . Translation typically requires the conversion of the message into a different format.

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or customer of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks and or as some social media networks and or may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks and or . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application which may be provided by the social media network and or to access the social media network s and or . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of the source of a posting an address field a destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and or a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be the name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks and or are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks and or .

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the dialog system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the dialog system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or .

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center . For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network and or such as Facebook . The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook . This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other circumstances the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center . For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center . The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks and or . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks and or . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media network and or might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and a social media network and or but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks and or .

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the dialog system . However in other situations the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the dialog system . For example a message from a social media network and or may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center . Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the dialog system . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the dialog system . Thus the dialog system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted.

The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network and or while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks and or . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the dialog system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the dialog system . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the dialog system . Thus the dialog system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be received in a general format and then translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

An embodiment of the dialog system is shown in . The dialog system can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The dialog system can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the dialog system can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the dialog system can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the dialog system in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks and or .

The dialog creator can create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center . The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can be a database as described in conjunction with and can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure may decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks and or . The two messages can be from different social media network and or so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks and or . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks and or . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks or from emails from texts from transcribed or oral phone calls or other contacts. Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. In addition for possibly longer documents such as blogs or emails the text processing component may execute one or more methods of document summarization. The summarization may occur if the social media message will be sent to an agent of the contact center the summarization can reduce the amount of information that the agent may manage. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database . The text processing rules database can be a database as described in conjunction with that stores rules or models used by the text processing component .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures. The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure. Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks and or . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media network and or . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center . An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message or other contact. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other situations the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media network and or . It should be noted that the answer based agent routing described hereinafter may be implemented in other types of call center or customer service centers other than that previously described. Thus the answer based agent routing systems and methods described hereinafter are not limited to the social media call center described above.

An embodiment of the text processing component is shown in . The text processing component can be a module embodied either in hardware and or software and include one or more components modules or sub modules. The text processing component can include a negative sentiment analyzer an actionable text analyzer a parser and or a sorter order . Each of these components can work in concert to receive messages and access text processing rules database to determine negative sentiment that can be acted upon by an agent. The output of the text processing component may be a message for agent action .

The negative sentiment analyzer can receive messages . The messages may be long social media messages long emails long texts long transcribed or oral phone calls etc. For example messages that have two or more sentences concepts questions statements postings segments and or interactions with the text may be a long message. Further a single posting in social media with two or more comments may be considered to be a long message and evaluated as a single message. The length of the message that designates the social media message as a long message is arbitrary and may be predetermined or set by a user. Thus any number of lines any number of characters of text any portion of a page etc. may be used to designate the message as a long social media message. The social media messages become more and more difficult to analyze as the messages become longer.

The negative sentiment analyzer can identify content in the long social media message that has negative sentiment. The negative sentiment analyzer can evaluate text within the content or message to determine if there are negative words or phrases therein. For example the negative sentiment analyzer can scan the message words such as not fail awful disgusting etc. These words may identify sentences that connote negative sentiment.

The negative sentiment analyzer can retrieve the text processing rules from the text processing rules database . Here the text processing rules database can include information or algorithms used to identify negative sentiment. This information or algorithms can include any type of text processing or language analysis that could be used to identify sentences that may have a negative connotation. Sentences with negative sentiment may then be flagged and passed to the actionable text analyzer .

The actionable text analyzer may then also do additional text processing to determine if the negative content can be acted upon. There may be negative sentiment that does not have any kind of actionable content or does not provide an agent the ability to respond. For example a sentence such as Delta sucks cannot have an actionable response. There is no information within the content that allows the organization to change behavior or address some organizational performance to address the negative content. However if the text says Delta sucks because they can t move people through the checkout line quickly this sentence may be actionable as the content includes a specific item of distaste or dissatisfaction with the user. In this case the user is upset about the checkout lines which may be addressed by the organization.

The actionable text analyzer can also receive text processing algorithms from the text processing rules database . The actionable text analyzer can employ any type of text processing or language analysis to determine which of the negative content is actionable. For example the actionable text analyzer may review content for the objects of sentences. While the subject and verb may contain the negative connotation the object of the sentence may include any type of actionable information. Thus the actionable text analyzer can conduct an object analysis of the content to determine which content is actionable. Any actionable text or content may be passed by the actionable text analyzer to the parser .

The parser may extract indicate and or highlight each portion of the message having actionable text. Thus the parser parses the actionable content. By parsing the content the actionable text is identified for the agent for further organization or analysis by the sorter orderer .

To better route the message the sorter orderer can sort and or order the actionable content. Here the sorter orderer may evaluate the actionable content identified by the parser for the degree of the negative sentiment any degree of actionable information in each of the parsed items of content any temporal information within the parsed content and or any intent within the parsed content. There may be other or further evaluations by the sorter orderer . Based on the information about the actionable content the sorter orderer can sort or order these actionable content items from most important to least important. Based on this order the highest ranked actionable content may then be used to route the message to an agent. The sort of the actionable content and the message can then be sent as a message for agent action to the agent interface that may send the analyzed message onto an agent . Thus the text processing component can receive two or more social media messages to identify the long social media messages evaluate that long media message for negative sentiment determine the actionable information within that negative sentiment parse sort and order that information for sending to an agent.

An embodiment of a method for identifying negative actionable sentiment in a long social media message is shown in . While a general order for the steps of the method is shown in any number of steps either fewer or more steps can be used in the method and the steps may be arranged in any order. Generally the method starts with a start operation and ends with an end operation . The method can include more or fewer steps or can arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The social media gateway may receive one or more social media messages in step . Here the social media gateway may pull a social media message from a social media network . In other situations the social media gateway may have a message pushed to the social media gateway . For example if the social media gateway is subscribed to a social media network and a new message is posted on a subscribed area of the network the social media gateway may receive that message automatically through network . The social media messages may then be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system in contact server . It should also be noted that long messages received directly from a user device may also be forwarded to the dialog system in contact server .

The messages are received by the dialog core of the dialog system described in conjunction with . These messages may then be sent to the text processing component from the dialog core to determine which of the media messages should be reviewed for negative sentiment. A negative sentiment analyzer of the text processing component can receive the messages . The text negative sentiment analyzer may then determine which messages to review for negative sentiment in step . Here some messages may have a longer duration or have more content than other messages. For example any message with more than four sentences may be deemed to be a long social media message. The negative sentiment analyzer may then pare the group of messages to review only long social media messages. In this way the negative sentiment analyzer insures that the text processing component provides the greatest amount of value by evaluating only those messages which would be more difficult for agents to review and address.

After determining which of the messages to analyze the negative sentiment analyzer may then extract text processing rules or algorithms from the text processing rules database to further analyze the messages for negative sentiment or negative comment in step . In this step the negative sentiment analyzer may use one or more text processing techniques or one or more language processing techniques to determine negative sentiment or areas of negative sentiment within the long social message . Negative sentiment can be any sentence that includes any negative text or negative language. For example negative sentiment may include certain words words such as sucks fail poor etc. certain punctuation certain emoticons or combinations thereof. Sentences or areas within the long social media messages containing such words may be flagged for further review by actionable text analyzer .

In an example a transcript of a chat session may be included with comments from a customer associated with the chat. The chat logs have a structure that is formatted like username where the username alternates between the agent and the customer. The negative sentiment analyzer can recognize the chat and summarize the chat as a chat log. The negative sentiment analyzer may also decompose the chat to identify the issue presented in the dialog and either validate that the issue in the dialog is the same issue that the customer is complaining about or if it is a different issue. For example in some cases the reason for including the chat log is to point out rude behavior on the part of the agent that was in the chat and thus the subject of the chat is not necessarily interesting. This situation might be indicated by the customer text outside of the chat log complaining of agent behavior. In other cases the customer comments may state that the solution offered in the chat did not solve the problem. Thus with the chat logs the negative sentiment analyzer can determine if the content of the chat log matched the object of the negative sentiment in the text outside of the chat log. Such a determination would help the agent know if they are looking at the chat log to see what technical solution was offered by the chat agent or if they are looking at the language the chat agent was using in offering a technical solution.

In another example customers of internet service providers sometimes include technical data such as ping logs output of the ping comment to demonstrate either dropped packets or lag in the form of long ping response times. Or the customer might include a URL or direct JPEG of a speed test showing slow data transfer performance. In these cases the negative sentiment analyzer may visually label the block of text ping log or speed test URL JPEG. For example a customer may provide ping logs taken at different times of the day to point out the inconsistency of network throughput from their point of view. For situations that include technical data the act of including the text URL JPEG can be an indication of negative sentiment in these contexts. When the technical data is embedded in long text messages the inclusion of the technical data can indicate negative sentiment related to surrounding text and the negative sentiment analyzer may summarize the technical data where possible. In certain cases like the ping log it would be possible to summarize the average ping and packet loss information in a more human digestible format for the agent possibly with some visual indication where the ping times or packet loss exceeds some normative threshold that the company has set for acceptable network performance.

The actionable text analyzer may then determine which of the flagged content received by the negative sentiment analyzer has actionable information in step . The actionable information is information that goes beyond a simple sentient having a negative sentiment but includes a specific problem or area to be addressed by the organization. This actionable information may be determined by one or more text processing techniques or one or more language processing techniques. The actionable text analyzer may then extract text processing and language processing algorithms from the text processing rules database to review the flagged negative sentiment. One such type of analysis may be object analysis as described hereinbefore. The actionable text analyzer may then pair out any negative sentiment that has no actionable information and pass only the actionable negative sentiment flagged content to a parser .

The parser may then parse actionable negative sentiment in step . Here the parser can extract the actionable negative sentiment from the message for further processing. However the message will be preserved with the flagged information intact. The flagged information may be highlighted or may be provided with some type of indicia that allows the agent to view the information quickly within the long social media message. Thus the parser may highlight any sentence with any actionable negative sentiment or may create one or more other types of visual audio or other types of indicia for the agent to locate the content with negative sentiment. The long social media message and the parsed actionable negative sentiment may then be passed to the sorter orderer .

The sorter orderer may then sort the parsed actionable negative sentiment content from highest ranked to lowest ranked in step . The sorting and ordering of the actionable sentiment may be completed by evaluation of the content within each of the parsed actionable negative sentiment in the sentences or content. For example the sorter orderer may determine a degree of negative sentiment the information density in each of the actionable negative sentiments any temporal information within any of that actionable negative sentiment or intent therein. The degree of negative sentiment may be evaluated by the number of negative words within a single item of content. The information density may be an evaluation of the length of the actionable negative sentiment the amount of objects or information that may be addressed within one item of actionable negative sentiment or other information that creates a sentence having a great amount of information. The temporal information can include any type of date or time that may be associated with the actionable negative sentiment that may be used to determine which issue is a more recent problem. Intent can be information within the sentence that provides for an evaluation of the intent of the user to have something done by the organization.

The sorter orderer may then use this evaluation to rank the actionable negative sentiment from highest ranked to lowest ranked. This information along with the long social media message may then be provided as a message for agent action to the agent router or agent interface . The agent interface may then use the sorted and ranked actionable negative sentiment to determine a routing decision for an agent. Once a routing decision is determined the agent interface passes the long social media message with the flagged actionable negative sentiment to an agent in step .

The system and methods described herein have specific advantages for allowing for more efficient processing of user complaints. Users may provide complaints and long ranting dialogs or monologues in social media. These messages tend to be very difficult for a contact center to process. Using the system and methods described herein those long messages may be evaluated for negative sentiment. Further once the negative sentiment is determined the system can determine if the messages are actionable. In this way the contact center only evaluates or responds to long social media messages that have actionable negative sentiment that the organization can address. This type of processing allows the contact center to be more efficient by ignoring long social media messages that are simply users or consumers venting without being able to do anything about that type of feeling or injury.

Environment further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server . In this example server is shown as a web server and server is shown as an application server. The web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The environment may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s and or may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the server and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web file server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the web server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and web file server and or web application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The environment may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. The database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. The database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10i that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. The computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the Fig. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

