---

title: Game asset linked to operations performed outside the game
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for executing game operations. One method includes an operation for receiving a request from a player to acquire a first game asset to be utilized in the game, the first game asset being associated with a token usable in the real world outside the game. After assigning the first game asset to the player in the game, the player is rewarded in the game with a second asset in response to the request. Further, the method includes an operation for detecting a commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token, and the player is rewarded in the game with a third asset in response to the detecting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098864&OS=09098864&RS=09098864
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09098864
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130108
---
The present embodiments relate to methods for improving game interactions and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for game assets that are linked to real life activities.

Online games that allow players to interact with other players have become popular. Online game operators aim at continue improving online games to keep players interested in the game because increased playing times often means higher game revenues.

Some games provide challenges to players where the challenges entail the completion of one or more tasks within the game. Each player must perform the required tasks to complete the challenges. As the player completes each challenge the player receives rewards and new challenges are made available to continue the game. Sometimes players wish to accelerate the completion of tasks so players spend virtual currency also referred to as in game currency to skip over some tasks. Because of this game virtual currency is a valuable asset for players.

Sometimes game operators include advertising in the game. For example an advertisement may be placed on a billboard of a city that the player is building. But these displays have limited functionality and do not create substantial increase in game enjoyment. In order to keep players engaged in the game a system is desired that would enable game players to receive incentives in the game to play longer.

Methods devices systems and computer programs are presented for executing an online game. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method for executing game operations is provided. The method includes an operation for receiving a request from a player to acquire a first game asset to be utilized in the game. The first game asset is associated with a token usable in the real world outside the game. The first game asset is assigned to the player in the game and the player is rewarded in the game with a second asset in response to the request. Further the method includes an operation for detecting a commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token. In addition the player is rewarded in the game with a third asset in response to the detecting. In one embodiment the operations of the method are executed by a processor.

In another embodiment a method for executing game operations is provided. The method includes an operation for receiving a request from a player to acquire a first game asset to be utilized in the game. The first game asset is associated with a token usable in a real world outside the game and the first asset includes growth stages associated with a plurality of commercial operations executed in the real world with the token. Further the method includes operations for assigning the first game asset to the player in the game and for sending a first electronic message to notify a commercial company that the first game asset has been assigned to the player. A first commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token is detected and the first asset is evolved from a first growth stage to a second stage in response to detecting the first commercial operation. Further the method includes another operation for rewarding the player in the game with a second asset in response to the evolving. In one embodiment the operations of the method are executed by a processor.

In yet another embodiment a computer program embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium when executed by one or more processors for executing game operations is presented. The computer program includes program instructions for receiving a request from a player to acquire a first game asset to be utilized in the game. The first game asset is associated with a token usable in a real world outside the game. The computer program further includes program instructions for assigning the first game asset to the player in the game and rewarding the player in the game with a second asset in response to the request. Included also are program instructions for detecting a commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token. Additionally the computer program includes program instructions for rewarding the player in the game with a third asset in response to the detecting.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe methods computer programs and apparatus for linking a game asset with a token that may be used in the real world. It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

The Pioneer Trail is a simulation role playing video game available for play on social networking sites. The player plays the role of a pioneer of the American old west and utilizes an avatar which resembles a pioneer. The player may complete collections which may be traded for coins experience points XP decorations livestock trees craftable items energy and horseshoes rare money that can be bought with real money . The player may also finish goals which include tasks such as gathering money buying energy clearing land chopping down trees raising livestock and trees creating items such as beds furniture and clobbering unwanted pests like bears snakes foxes and groundhogs. Eventually the player may acquire a spouse and have children.

Other tasks include collecting from buildings building inns wagons general stores cabins schools chicken coops barns trading posts barber shops churches and sawmills as well as seeding growing and harvesting crops. Coins enable the player to purchase decorations buildings crops trees and animals. Horseshoes which can be earned in game or purchased through real world cash or credit allow the player to buy mules and horses paint buckets hand drills nails bricks hammers etc. These items are essential for completing certain goals. Friends may also gift some items to the player which is referred to herein as a viral interaction.

Crops may be planted and must be harvested before they wither and the crops with longer maturation times provide larger payoffs. Harvesting may trigger encounters with ground hogs which must be clobbered to avoid using extra energy within their area of influence. Clobbering pests and harvesting crops yield coins XP and food. Food can be used to get energy which is necessary to perform some actions in the game. Energy can be purchased in exchange for food or horseshoes. When the player runs out of energy the player must either purchase more energy with food or horseshoes or wait for more energy to build up over time.

Animals may be purchased and harvested routinely for resources or sold outright for a large one time reward. In one embodiment the animals start out as juveniles and must be fed several times to grow into adults. Players can also plant fruit trees such as cherry apple pear peach apricot etc. and their fruits may be collected when the trees reach maturity.

The game shown in includes avatar which can be manipulated by the player such as by clicking the mouse around the play area. For example if the mouse is clicked somewhere far away from the avatar the avatar is moved to the faraway place unless the mouse is clicked on some other game object that causes an in game action e.g. if the mouse is clicked on an animal the avatar feeds the animal .

As the player advances in the game the player acquires assets which can take multiple forms. In one embodiment assets include first virtual currency asset referred to as horseshoes second virtual currency wood asset food asset energy asset sheep asset haystack asset dancing bear asset badges badge collections temporally tiered levels bonuses promotions penalties digital content e.g. image files icons audio files video files gifts honor title rewards invitation permissions avatars rally points diaries footprints trophies competitions engagement modes user difficulty modes e.g. novice intermediate expert stars medals gems pets exploration quests etc. Each asset can be used for one or more purposes. For example first virtual currency can be used during the game to make progress also referred to herein as advancement. The first virtual currency can be used to acquire assets e.g. animals or crops to remove an obstacle in the game e.g. enabling progress that would otherwise be blocked or to complete a task e.g. finish decorating a house .

In one embodiment the online game includes quests which may also be referred to as missions goals challenges etc. Each quest identifies one or more tasks that the player must complete before the quest is considered satisfied or finished. For example a quest may require three tasks chopping down a tree feeding an animal and planting an apple tree. Upon completion of the quest the player is rewarded in some fashion such as by getting a new asset increasing the amount of energy getting more virtual currency etc. As the player completes tasks and quests the game score is increased and as the game score increases the experience level may also increase.

Clicking on inventory icon causes the online game to display a list of all the items or assets owned by the player. In addition clicking on marketplace icon takes the player to a virtual marketplace where assets can be acquired. As described above assets can be from within different categories such as crops trees animals buildings decorations energy special items weapons etc. Each category includes a plurality of assets within the category. For example the animal category includes ducks chickens goats sheep pigs etc. Some of the items within a category can be freely acquired by the player while purchasing of some items can be blocked until certain game condition is met such as reaching some score finishing a quest purchasing the ability to unblock the blocked item etc.

In one embodiment the online game is an online social game which leverages social relationships between the player and other online game players socially linked to the player. For example the player may add a neighbor to the game by inviting a friend from a social networking site. There are several online social networks run and maintained by various companies and any one of these companies can provide access to social graph data. Once a friend accepts being a neighbor a social relationship is established in the game where the game played by the player and the game played by the neighbor can interact with each other. For example the player may visit the home of the neighbor and perform some game activities therein and will be rewarded for doing so. Some of the quests in the game may include social activities that promote the interaction between players. For example one quest may include planting tomatoes in the neighbor s farm. Therefore the social interaction can provide advancement for the player and for the neighbor.

Embodiments presented herein allow a player to place a value asset in the player s game board. As used herein a value asset is a game asset that is associated with a token usable in the real world outside the game. In one embodiment the token is selected from a group consisting of a prepaid card a credit card an automated teller machine ATM card a store card a membership card or a gift card. For description purposes a prepaid card is used herein to describe embodiments but the principles presented may be applied to any other token that may be used in the real world to buy or sell goods or services or to transfer money. In the embodiment illustrated in a player has placed a value asset which is referred to herein as a money tree in the game board. The value asset is associated with a token which is a prepaid card in one embodiment.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different value assets tokens quests social interactions etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

The promotional message in entices the user with 300 free virtual currency e.g. horseshoes when the user signs up for a prepaid card. An image of the prepaid card is presented to the user and an option button e.g. Plant the money tree is provided to allow the user to start the game operation for installing the value asset in the game. In addition a second message lets the user know of other benefits associated with the value asset such as exclusive bonus levels a daily coin bonus and more horseshoe rewards.

The embodiments described herein refer to a prepaid card as the token but other types of digital wallets are also possible. In general a digital wallet also known as an e wallet allows users to make electronic commerce transactions. A digital wallet has both a software and an information component. The software provides security and encryption for the personal information and for the actual transaction. A server side digital wallet also known as a thin wallet is one that an organization creates for a user and maintains on its servers. The information component includes user inputted information. This information consists of name shipping address billing address payment methods including credit card numbers expiration dates and security numbers and other information.

In one embodiment the value asset is representative of a financial product and is associated with in game rewards. Some of the embodiments described herein present a money tree as the value asset but many other types of assets may also be used in the game as value assets. In one embodiment the value asset is selected from a group consisting of a tree a plant a vehicle a car an airplane a ship a weapon a gun a rifle a building a castle a decoration a fountain an avatar etc. In another embodiment the reward for installing the value asset is selected from a group consisting of a game currency game energy or a food item.

If the user chooses the option to install or accept the value asset the user then proceeds to place the value asset in the game. The user may place the value asset in the game board add it to inventory add it to a storage area etc. displays a value asset e.g. money tree after the player has placed the money tree in the player s homestead.

A connection is established in the game between the value asset and the prepaid card. The visibility of the asset in the game e.g. the icon associated with the value asset reminds players that there is an ongoing program associated with the value asset including the ability to gain additional rewards. The user is incentivized to place the value asset not only because it is an appealing asset within the game but also because the value asset is associated with an external token in real life that when used may result in game rewards. The use of the prepaid card which is linked to the game for operations in the real world increases the engagement value between the player and the game. By using a prepaid card with the game s logo in one embodiment players tend to increase the degree of connection with the game resulting in bigger engagements higher affinity and increased playing times.

In addition if the player clicks or places the mouse over the value asset additional information regarding the value asset is provided to the user. The user receives incentives at each stage of the progression map to motivate the user to continue through the different stages.

4. Grow your virtual world when using the card the player will get in game rewards when the player uses the prepaid card in the real world .

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different progression maps with more or less stages provide different incentives different messages different value assets different tokens etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the tree may also be harvested. The tree may be harvested a predetermined number of times or periodically. For example after the tree is harvested the tree is ready to be harvested again after a period of time e.g. a day a week etc. . Further as the player uses the prepaid card in stores the tree may add additional rewards.

After the player places the value asset the player is invited to sign up for the card. In one embodiment the player is given a web link to access a website from a financial institution in order to sign up. More details with reference to sign up for the card and other interfaces with the financial institution are given below with reference to .

After the player signs up with the financial institution the financial institution notifies the game provider and the player receives the credit for advancement in the progression map. In one embodiment after signing up for the prepaid card the player receives the prepaid card in the mail. In order to use the card the player must first activate the card such as by going to a website to activate the card or by placing a phone call with the financial institution.

It is noted that the player may be able to use the prepaid card in a game related operation such as using the prepaid card to buy virtual currency. In this case the player gets rewarded for using the card similar to when the player uses the prepaid card for any other real world transaction. In one embodiment the player gets additional rewards for buying virtual currency in the game with the prepaid card.

In another embodiment the player may get rewards to be used in the real world for making progress in the game. For example the player may obtain a free coffee at a coffee house when the player reaches a game goal. The player is notified that the coffee may be acquired for free in the coffee house by using the prepaid card.

After the player activates the card the fourth stage is reached and the player gets game rewards every time the player makes a purchase with the prepaid card. In one embodiment the player only gets a reward for real life purchases a predetermined number of times e.g. 5 10 20 100 etc. . After using the prepaid card in the real world when the player returns to the game there will be an animation or message in the money tree notifying the player to click on the money tree because there is a reward waiting for the player which is the result of using the prepaid card.

In one embodiment the money tree can be harvested which is also referred to as tended. In one embodiment when the player tends or harvests the tree the player receives game rewards that are unrelated to the game rewards obtained when using the prepaid card.

In one embodiment the prepaid card may be associated with Real Money Gambling RMG e.g. online poker slots sports betting blackjack craps and other casino games etc. . The player may get rewards in the RMG game by using the prepaid card acquired through the RMG game. For example a poker player may use the RMG card to get poker chips to play in a poker table. As a reward the player may obtain additional poker chips or other benefits such as free virtual items for the game free drinks in a real life casino etc. By having the player use a prepaid card associated with the RMG game a closer relation between the player and the game provider is established.

In one embodiment an icon in the RMG may be associated with the game. For example a player with an RMG card may obtain a distinctive status banner drink crown access to exclusive tables and tournaments etc.

In one embodiment a Sign Up button is provided to start the signing up process. In another embodiment a Convert button allows a player that already has a card with the financial provider of the prepaid card to convert the card into a new card associated with the desired game. An icon illustrates one or more of the cards available.

After selecting the sign up option the user is provided another webpage to enter personal information such as name address employment social security number etc. Once the personal information is entered the credit card company creates an account for the player if approved.

After the player logs in a menu is provided not shown to perform card related operations. One of the operations according to one embodiment is to add money to the prepaid card. illustrates an interface for adding money to the prepaid card.

The player may enter the amount to be added to the card e.g. 20 when to add the money and the funding source for the funds. The funding source may be any type of financial instrument that allows the card company to get money for the player s card such as a credit card debit card another prepaid card checking account savings account etc. A Submit button is provided to the player for completing the add money operation.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different layouts fields interfaces etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In some embodiments the player must meet certain requirements before the offer for the prepaid card is presented. For example the player must reside in the country e.g. United States although other countries are also possible where the offer is valid. In some embodiments the offer may be valid in multiple countries. Therefore when the player logs in one or more checks are performed to determine if the player is eligible.

If the player is a potential candidate as determined in operation the method flows to operation where another check is performed to determine if the player has reached a minimum level of skill in the game e.g. the player has reached level . If the player does not have the minimum skill level the player is determined non eligible in operation and if the player meets the skill requirement the method flows to operation .

In operation another check is made to determine if the player is in the geographic area where the prepaid card is available e.g. a state a nation a plurality of nations a test area etc. . As with operation and if the player does not meet the geographical requirement the player is determined non eligible in operation . However if the player meets the geographic requirement the method flows to operation .

In operation the method checks if the player has already signed up for the prepaid card and if the player has not signed up for the card the player is determined eligible for the program in operation . After the player is determined eligible the pop up message or some other message will be presented to the player to inform the player of the availability of the prepaid card program. If the player has already signed up the player is determined non eligible in operation .

In one embodiment the player collects one unit of virtual currency e.g. 1 horseshoe every time the tree is tended up to 10 times. After the 10 times the player may receive other rewards e.g. energy other type of virtual currency assets for use in the game etc. but the player will not receive additional units of the virtual currency e.g. horseshoes .

In one embodiment an indicator appears on the tree e.g. an arrow above the tree to let the user know that the tree is ripe. In operation the game detects that the player has clicked on the money tree. From operation the method flows to operation where a check is made to determine if the tree is ripe for tending. If the tree is not ripe the method flows to operation and if the tree is ripe the method flows to operation .

In operation doobers are added to the game board around the tree to make rewards available such as experience points XP currency and energy although other types of assets may also be added as rewards. A doober is an icon representing a reward to be collected by the user and when the user clicks or mouses over the doober the associated reward is collected and the doober disappears.

From operation the method flows to operation where the game checks how many times the player has tended the ripe tree. If the tree has been tended less than 10 times the method flows to operation if the tree has been tended exactly 10 times the method flows to operation and if the tree has been tended more than 10 times the method flows to operation .

In operation a doober for one unit of virtual currency e.g. horseshoe is added to the game board. In operation one doober is added and a message is presented to the user indicating that this is the final unit of virtual currency obtained by tending the ripe tree although other types of rewards may be available associated with the tree as discussed herein.

From operation the method flows to operation where a dialogue or interface is presented to the user given the ability to the user to perform value asset related operations. It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different operations omit some operations provide different types of rewards give rewards a different number of times etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

When the player registers for the prepaid card the player gets horseshoes as a reward and the rewards associated with the registration may only be collected once. Further after the player adds money to the prepaid card for the first time the player gets horseshoes. Additionally the first 10 times that the player makes a purchase with the prepaid card the player gets horseshoes each time for a total maximum of 1000 horseshoes.

When the player registers the card the player gets experience points 200 coins and a breakfast for 10 energy points. When the player activates the card the player gets experience points 500 coins and a lunch for 15 energy points and when the player makes the first purchase with the prepaid card the player gets experience points 800 coins and dinner for 30 energy points.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different types of rewards different amounts of rewards rewards given for other value asset related activities etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

The game interfaces with game server to perform game operations including game operations related to value assets. The rewards manager provides card activity information to game manager e.g. player signs up for the card player makes a purchase with the card etc. . The rewards manager interfaces with the game interface manager in financial server to exchange information related to the value asset of the game and financial transactions performed with the card associated with the value asset. For example when the player activates the prepaid card with financial server the game interface manager sends information to the rewards manager to let the game operator know that the card has been activated. The interface between rewards manager and is provided to support all the operations described herein for interfacing the game provider with the financial institution offering the prepaid card.

In one embodiment after the player installs the value asset in the game the game places an icon associated with the value asset in a game board and sends an electronic message to game interface manager to notify the commercial company that the player has assigned or installed the value asset.

In one embodiment the financial server detects the user has performed a commercial operation using the prepaid card e.g. the user makes and in store purchase in a store or performs an Internet purchase with the prepaid card or signs up for the card when the financial transaction manager receives an electronic message from a commercial company. In response the game interface manager notifies the rewards manager that the financial transaction has taken place. In one embodiment the commercial operation is selected from a group consisting of signing up for a prepaid card activating the prepaid card adding money to the prepaid card or spending money with the prepaid card.

Database in game server is used to store information related to value assets. In one embodiment database includes a list of value assets owned by each player e.g. player and for each value asset associated information is stored. A list of attributes and parameters is associated with each value asset. In one embodiment the list of attributes includes one or more of a user ID a state of the value asset e.g. placed signed activated etc. rewards given to the player rewards available to the player whether the money tree is ripe the time when the tree was last tended whether there is a financial transaction pending that needs attention etc.

Financial server further includes a card data database which includes information related to the prepaid cards owned by players. In one embodiment card data database includes one or more of a user ID a state of the prepaid card a balance on the prepaid card a registration date for the card an expiration date for the card etc.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different modules computer programs interfaces interactions value asset implementations database structures etc. For example in one embodiment value assets are kept in a separate list from the regular assets. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

From operation the method flows to operation where the first game asset is assigned to the player in the game in response to the request. Additionally the player is rewarded in the game with a second asset.

From operation the method flows to operation where a commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token is detected. In one embodiment the commercial operation is one of signing up for a prepaid card activating the prepaid card adding money to the prepaid card or spending money with the prepaid card.

From operation the method flows to operation where the player is rewarded in the game with a third asset in response to the detecting. In one embodiment operations of the method are executed by a processor.

In another embodiment a method includes operations for receiving a request from a player to acquire a first game asset to be utilized in the game the first game asset being associated with a token usable in a real world outside the game where the first asset includes growth stages associated with a plurality of commercial operations executed in the real world with the token assigning the first game asset to the player in the game sending an electronic message to notify a commercial company that the player has assigned the first game asset detecting a first commercial operation executed outside the game by the player with the token evolving the first asset from a first growth stage to a second stage in response to detecting the first commercial operation and rewarding the player in the game with a second asset in response to the evolving. In one embodiment a different in game icon for the first game asset is associated with each of the growth stages.

In another embodiment operations of the method are performed by a computer program when executed by one or more processors the computer program being embedded in a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation community server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

