---

title: Steering column for a motor vehicle
abstract: A clamping device for an adjustable steering column for a motor vehicle comprises a clamping bolt which is rotatable about its longitudinal axis for the opening and closing of the clamping device by means of an actuation lever, through an opening of which the clamping bolt extends. In the region of the opening of the actuation lever there is situated a connecting section of the clamping bolt, over the axial extent of which connecting section the clamping bolt is connected to the actuation lever by way of a press fit. The outer wall of the clamping bolt has, in the connecting section of the clamping bolt, at least two pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction about the longitudinal axis and by way of which the actuation lever is pressed against the outer wall.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09487229&OS=09487229&RS=09487229
owner: THYSSENKRUPP PRESTA AG
number: 09487229
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130925
---
This application is a 371 U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT EP2013 002868 filed Sep. 25 2013 which claims priority to German Application No. DE102012112890.1 filed on Dec. 21 2012. The disclosure of each of the above applications is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to a steering column for a motor vehicle having a clamping device in the open state of which the position of the steering column is adjustable and in the closed state of which the position of the steering column is fixed.

WO 2011 100770 A1 has disclosed a steering column of the type mentioned in the introduction which steering column has a clamping bolt which is rotatable about its longitudinal axis and which is equipped with a toothing encircling the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt. An actuation lever is pressed axially by way of a joining surface which is composed of plastic and which encircles the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt onto the toothing of the clamping bolt wherein the teeth of the toothing at least partially dig into the joining surface. During this axial pressing on process a relatively high axial force acts on the clamping device whereby a certain amount of deformation may arise in the clamping device such that desired small tolerances are not adhered to or even retroactive adjustments are necessary.

WO 2010 022855 A1 has disclosed the connection of an actuation lever of a clamping device to a clamping piece which is rotated by the actuation lever during the opening and closing movements wherein the connection permits a rotation between the actuation lever and the clamping piece if a torque acting between the actuation lever and the clamping piece exceeds a threshold value. Said connection may be a positively locking and or non positively locking connection.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 990 021 A presents a positively locking connection of an actuation lever to the clamping device of a steering column. EP 0 661 474 B1 has disclosed a positively locking shaft or shank fastening in a bore of a receiving part.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 402 236 A presents a connection of an actuation lever to a clamping bolt of a clamping device by means of a screw connection and press fit.

The steering column comprises a clamping bolt which clamping bolt has a longitudinal axis first and second ends which delimit the clamping bolt in an axial direction and an outer wall which delimits the clamping bolt in a radial direction. The clamping bolt is rotatable about its longitudinal axis for the opening and closing of the clamping device by means of an actuation lever through an opening of which the clamping bolt extends. The clamping bolt has an end section adjoining its first end and has a connecting section which adjoins the end section in the direction of the second end of the clamping bolt and which is situated in the region of the opening of the actuation lever and in the axial extent of which the clamping bolt is connected to the actuation lever by way of a press fit. The disclosure also relates to a method for producing a steering column for a motor vehicle having a clamping device in the open state of which the position of the steering column is adjustable and in the closed state of which the position of the steering column is fixed and which comprises a clamping bolt.

It is an object of the invention to provide a steering column and a method of the type mentioned in the introduction wherein simple assembly and low axial loading of the clamping device are attained. This is achieved according to the invention by way of a steering column having the features of claim and by way of a method having the features of claim .

In the case of a steering column according to the invention the outer wall of the clamping bolt has in the connecting section of the clamping bolt at least two pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt in the direction of rotation about the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt and over the extent of which the actuation lever is pressed against the outer wall of the clamping bolt. As viewed in a longitudinal central section running through the pressing region the outer wall of the clamping bolt has a smaller spacing from the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt in each pressing region than at least over a part of that end section of the clamping bolt which adjoins the connecting section.

A positively locking connection in the axial direction toward the first end of the clamping bolt is produced in this way.

A press fit connection of said type can be formed in a simple manner by way of a radial pressing process by means of press jaws which act in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt. Here it is possible for forces acting on the clamping bolt in an axial direction to be substantially avoided.

It is preferable for precisely three pressing regions to be provided which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction.

The pressing regions are advantageously distributed uniformly over the circumference that is to say the angular spacing between successive pressing regions in the circumferential direction is uniform.

The clamping bolt is preferably of hollow form at least over the end section and the connecting section. Said clamping bolt thus has an internal axial cavity channel that is to say the clamping bolt is in the form of a hollow shaft at least over the end section and the connecting section. The clamping bolt is advantageously of hollow form beyond the connecting section that is to say also over a section of the longitudinal extent of the clamping bolt which adjoins the connecting section in the direction of the second end of the clamping bolt. For example the clamping bolt is of hollow form over a length adjoining the connecting section in the direction of the second end said length amounting to less than the sum of the length of the end section and the length of the connecting section or the clamping bolt is entirely over its entire length of hollow form.

In an advantageous embodiment the pressing regions form depressions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt in the outer wall. Here the actuation lever has a collar which is pressed against the outer wall of the clamping bolt in the pressing regions wherein the collar lies at least in sections in the depressions formed by the pressing regions in the outer wall. Here the collar is connected by way of a bend to the base part of the actuation lever wherein the base part is at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt.

Instead of a collar which encircles the longitudinal axis over the full circumference annularly it would also be possible for the actuation lever to have lugs which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt and which are pressed against the outer wall of the clamping bolt in a respective one of the pressing regions wherein said lugs are situated at least in sections in the respective depression formed by the pressing region of the outer wall. In this case the lugs are connected by way of a bend to a base part of the actuation lever which base part is at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt.

The engagement of the collar or of the lugs into the depressions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt also serves to realize a positively locking action with respect to a rotation of the actuation lever relative to the clamping bolt about the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt.

The actuation lever is expediently formed from sheet metal wherein the thickness of the sheet metal is preferably less than 5 mm at least in the region of the connecting section for connecting to the clamping bolt.

The end section and the connecting section of the clamping bolt constitute mutually adjoining parts of the longitudinal extent of the clamping bolt.

In the method for producing a steering column of the type mentioned in the introduction it is provided according to the invention that the press fit between the actuation lever and the connecting section of the clamping bolt is formed by way of a radial pressing action by means of press jaws which act in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt. In an advantageous embodiment of the invention it is provided here that the press jaws act on at least two regions of the actuation lever which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt and which are situated radially outside the outer wall of the clamping bolt and said press jaws press said regions of the actuation lever against pressing regions of the outer wall of the clamping bolt wherein the regions of the actuation lever and the pressing regions of the outer wall of the clamping bolt are plastically deformed and in the process depressions are formed in the outer wall of the clamping bolt into which depressions the pressed regions of the actuation lever engage. It is expediently the case that during said pressing process a pin is inserted into a cavity of the clamping bolt said pin proceeding from the first end of the clamping bolt and extending in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt. In this case during the pressing process the free end of the pin is situated in the region of the end section of the clamping bolt or at the axial location at which the end section ends and the connecting section begins.

A first exemplary embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The steering column comprises a steering spindle which is mounted in rotatable fashion by way of a casing unit . A steering wheel not illustrated can be fastened to a steering wheel side end of the steering spindle . The casing unit is supported by a support unit which can be installed fixedly with respect to a body. In the exemplary embodiment the support unit has side members situated to both sides of the casing unit . In the closed state of a clamping device the side members are braced against the casing unit . The casing unit is thus fixed with respect to the support unit . In the open state of the clamping device the casing unit can be adjusted relative to the support unit in an adjustment direction for a length adjustment in the direction of the axis of the steering spindle and in an adjustment direction for a height or tilt adjustment in order to permit an adjustment of the position of the steering wheel side end of the steering spindle .

The clamping device comprises a clamping bolt which extends through slots in the side members and in the casing unit . The slots in the side members run in the direction of the adjustment direction and the slot in the casing unit runs in the direction of the adjustment device .

The clamping bolt is connected rotationally conjointly to an actuation lever . The clamping device is opened and closed by way of a rotation of the actuation lever about the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt . For this purpose a clamping part arranged on the clamping bolt is rotated relative to a counterpart clamping part which is held so as to be rotationally fixed and which is supported on the side member . The rotation of the clamping part relative to the counterpart clamping part may be effected for example by way of a connection in terms of drive between the actuation lever and the clamping part . For this purpose recesses not illustrated may be provided in the actuation lever which recesses are engaged into by projections of the clamping part . Such a connection in terms of drive could also be implemented in some other way for example also directly between the clamping bolt and the clamping part for example by way of a non circular contour of the clamping bolt in the region in which the clamping part with a corresponding contour is arranged on the clamping bolt .

For example the clamping part may be in the form of a cam disk the cams of which bear against a surface of the counterpart clamping part which is in the form of a cam follower. Another possible design would for example be one in which the clamping part and or the counterpart clamping part have oblique surfaces on which rolling bodies for example balls which are arranged between the clamping part and the counterpart clamping part roll.

The connection of the actuation lever to the clamping bolt is realized in the region of a first end of the clamping bolt . The second end of the clamping bolt is adjoined by an external thread onto which there is screwed a nut which is supported if appropriate via an intermediate washer on the side member . The nut may for example be a nut composed in particular of plastic with a thread which is self cut as said nut is screwed onto the external thread of the clamping bolt . It is also possible to use a nut composed for example of steel with an already pre cut thread.

The first and the second end delimit the clamping bolt in the axial direction of its longitudinal axis . In the radial direction with respect to the longitudinal axis the clamping bolt is delimited by its outer wall encircling the longitudinal axis .

During the closure of the clamping device the counterpart clamping part and the nut are braced against the side members and the latter are thus braced against the casing unit whereby the casing unit is connected in frictionally engaging fashion to the support unit .

Steering columns which have the features described above are known in a variety of embodiments. The invention can be used in a variety of steering columns of said type.

It would for example also be possible for the clamping device to be of a modified design. Aside from clamping connections that act by frictional engagement it would also be possible to use clamping connections in the closed state of which positive locking and or a combination of frictional engagement and positive locking are generated. Various clamping connections of said type are known which have clamping bolts which during the opening and closing of the clamping device are rotated about their longitudinal axis by way of an actuation lever connected rotationally conjointly to the clamping bolt. To form additional friction surfaces it would for example also be possible to provide lamellae through which the clamping bolt extends.

Between the casing unit and the support unit it would also be possible for there to be provided a pivoting unit which is pivotable relative to the support unit about a horizontal pivot axis which lies perpendicular to the axis of the steering spindle . For height or tilt adjustment said pivoting unit is pivoted relative to the support unit when the clamping device is in the open state. For length adjustment the casing unit can be adjusted relative to the pivoting unit in the direction of the axis of the steering spindle when the clamping device is in the open state.

It would also be possible for the support unit to have only one side member arranged on one side of the casing unit .

For the adjustment in the adjustment direction the steering spindle advantageously has two sections which can be adjusted in telescopic fashion relative to one another as is known.

In the event of a crash the steering column can advantageously collapse with absorption of energy as is likewise known.

For the fastening according to the invention of the actuation lever to the clamping bolt in this exemplary embodiment the actuation lever has a collar which annularly encircles the longitudinal axis of the clamping bolt . The collar is connected by way of a bend to a base part of the actuation lever which base part is at right angles to the longitudinal axis . In particular the collar may be formed from the main part which is composed of sheet metal and which was previously planar flat in the region of the collar by way of a collar drawing process.

Before the actuation lever is pressed together with the clamping bolt the collar has a circular ring shaped contour as shown in . The wall thickness material thickness measured in a radial direction of the collar lies for example in the range from 1.5 mm to 4 mm.

For the pressing process the actuation lever is mounted by way of its opening which is surrounded by the collar onto the clamping bolt cf. . The collar concentrically surrounds the longitudinal axis and runs parallel to the longitudinal axis as viewed in longitudinal section. Proceeding from the base part the collar extends in the direction of the first end of the clamping bolt .

In the section surrounded by the collar the clamping bolt is of hollow form that is to say has an internal cavity running in an axial direction. The wall surrounding the cavity is situated concentrically with respect to the longitudinal axis . The thickness of said wall preferably lies in the range from 1 mm to 3 mm.

The clamping bolt advantageously has a radially outwardly protruding elevation which for example annularly surrounds the clamping bolt. Said elevation forms an abutment shoulder against which the actuation lever at its side averted from the first end of the clamping bolt bears.

A press tool for pressing the actuation lever together with the clamping bolt has three press jaws which are spaced apart uniformly in the circumferential direction about a longitudinal axis of the press tool and a cylindrical pin which extends in the direction of the longitudinal axis and which is arranged concentrically with respect thereto.

The press tool is pushed by way of its press jaws over the collar of the actuation lever cf. and . Here the pin also referred to as mandrel is inserted with its free end first into the cavity proceeding from the first end of the clamping bolt . Here the longitudinal axes and lie on a common straight line. The pin preferably projects into the cavity only to such an extent that it does not overlap the axial extent of the collar in relation to the axial direction of the longitudinal axis . The free end of the pin is thus then situated in the region of the end section or at the transition between the end section and the connecting section .

The press jaws are then brought together to such an extent that they bear against the collar cf. . Subsequently the collar is pressed together with the clamping bolt with plastic deformation of the collar and preferably also of the clamping bolt by virtue of the press jaws being brought together further cf. . During this process the pin remains in the cavity .

Subsequently the press jaws are moved apart again cf. and the press tool is withdrawn in an axial direction cf. .

The press connection that is formed can be seen in particular in . After the pressing process the collar has a non circular circumferential contour at least in the axial region in which it is pressed together with the clamping bolt . Said pressed region may be adjoined in the direction of the base part by a non pressed axial region which is not illustrated in the figures and which may even after the pressing process have an at least substantially circular ring shaped form at least directly adjacent to the base part .

At the locations where the press jaws have acted the outer wall of the collar has depressions . On the clamping bolt too there is preferably formed a depression such that the connection is effected not only by non positive locking but preferably also by way of additional positive locking in the direction of rotation. That section of the axial extent of the clamping bolt over which a pressed connection with the actuation lever is realized is referred to in the present document as the connecting section of the clamping bolt . Said connecting section is thus situated in the region of the opening through the actuation lever that is to say an inner wall of the actuation lever which inner wall surrounds the opening of the actuation lever is situated radially outside the outer wall of the clamping bolt . In the exemplary embodiment as per the connecting section is situated in the region of the axial extent of the collar .

The connecting section is adjoined in the direction of the first end of the clamping bolt by an end section of the clamping bolt which end section extends axially as far as the first end of the clamping bolt . Over said end section there is no pressed connection between the actuation lever and the clamping bolt . The end section and the connecting section thus constitute mutually adjoining sections of the axial extent longitudinal extent of the clamping bolt .

By means of the three press jaws which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction about the clamping bolt in the direction of rotation about the longitudinal axis the inner wall of the collar is pressed against the outer wall of the clamping bolt over the axial and radial extents of three pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction of the outer wall of the clamping bolt . In these pressing regions of the outer wall only there is a radial pressed connection between the clamping bolt and the actuation lever that is to say owing to the elastic preload of the material of the clamping bolt and of the actuation lever a radial bracing action is realized between said two parts.

As viewed in the circumferential direction about the clamping bolt direction of rotation about the longitudinal axis between the pressing regions of the outer wall there are situated regions of the outer wall which are not pressed together with the actuation lever that is to say in which there is no radial bracing action between the actuation lever and the outer wall . Between successive pressing regions of the outer wall in the circumferential direction in the direction of rotation about the longitudinal axis there is in particular in each case a gap between the outer wall and the collar of the actuation lever cf. .

With respect to the axial extent of the clamping bolt in the direction of the longitudinal axis on both sides of a respective pressing region there are situated regions of the outer wall which are not pressed together with the actuation lever . In particular it may be the case that that region which adjoins the pressing regions axially in the direction of the first end of the clamping bolt is no longer surrounded by the actuation lever and a gap is present between the outer wall of the clamping bolt and the actuation lever in that region which axially adjoins the pressing regions in the direction of the second end of the clamping bolt cf. .

As viewed in the longitudinal central section running through a respective pressing region that is to say with respect to a section the plane of which encompasses the longitudinal axis through a respective pressing region the outer wall of the clamping bolt has owing to the pressing of the collar against the outer wall by means of the press jaws a spacing a from the longitudinal axis which is smaller than the spacing A of the outer wall from the longitudinal axis at least over a part of the end section of the clamping bolt which part adjoins the connecting section in the direction of the first end . The spacing a is preferably smaller over the entire axial extent of a respective pressing region than the spacing A. In the exemplary embodiment shown the spacing A is greater over the entire end section of the clamping bolt than the spacing a.

In other words it is thus the case that when viewing the connecting section and the end section or at least a part of the end section adjoining the connecting section the outer wall has as viewed in a longitudinal central section running through the respective pressing region an undercut form as viewed in the axial direction of the clamping bolt from the first end of the clamping bolt . In this case the undercut is situated in the respective pressing region.

By means of the undercuts formed by the pressing regions a positively locking connection is produced between the actuation lever and the clamping bolt which positively locking connection counteracts a displacement of the actuation lever in the direction of the first end of the clamping bolt .

The pressing regions form depressions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction about the longitudinal axis in the outer wall of the clamping bolt which depressions are engaged into by radially inwardly projecting elevations of the collar . In this way a connection between the clamping bolt and the actuation lever is formed which also exhibits positively locking characteristics in the circumferential direction about the longitudinal axis .

Instead of three pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction it would also be possible for two or more than three such pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction to be provided. Then a corresponding number of two or more than three press jaws are used to form the pressed connection.

The pressing regions are preferably distributed uniformly over the circumference of the outer wall that is to say the angular spacing between successive pressing regions in the circumferential direction is uniform.

The connecting section and the end section together extend over less than 20 preferably less than 10 of the total length of the clamping bolt . The clamping bolt is of hollow form at least over the end section and the connecting section. The clamping bolt is preferably of hollow form beyond the connecting section in the direction of the second end for example over a length adjoining the connecting section said length amounting to less than 10 of the total length of the clamping bolt and or less than the length of the end section and of the connecting section together. It is also possible for the clamping bolt to be entirely of hollow form for the entire clamping bolt to be in the form of a hollow shaft .

The end section of the clamping bolt has at least adjacent to the connecting section a non circular outer contour owing to the pressed connection of the collar to the connecting section and the resulting plastic deformation of said parts. Toward the first end the clamping bolt may have an increasingly circular cross sectional form.

A second exemplary embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . Said exemplary embodiment corresponds to the exemplary embodiment described above aside from the differences described below.

A collar of the actuation lever may be omitted in this case. The opening of the actuation lever through which opening the clamping bolt extends is thus formed by a narrow side of the metal sheet from which the actuation lever is formed. By way of said narrow side which delimits the opening of the metal sheet the actuation lever is pressed against the outer wall of the clamping bolt over the extent of the pressing regions of the outer wall of the clamping bolt. The press fit is thus in turn realized at locations which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction. Between the pressing regions of the clamping bolt which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction and over which said clamping bolt is pressed against the wall which delimits the opening of the actuation lever gaps are present between the clamping bolt and the actuation lever .

In this exemplary embodiment the clamping bolt is formed in its entirety as a hollow shaft. It would however also be possible for said clamping bolt to have a cavity which extends from the first end only over the end section the connecting section and a section beyond this the extent of which in the axial direction is expediently at least 5 mm.

The formation of the press fit is in turn realized by means of a press tool of which in this case only the press jaws are illustrated. In this case the press jaws are applied directly to the end section of the clamping bolt and press the latter radially inward at pressing points which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction preferably at three pressing points which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction. By means of said pressing action regions comprising the pressing points are pushed radially inward with plastic deformation. In this way as viewed in the circumferential direction of the clamping bolt intermediate regions situated between said radially inwardly pressed regions are subjected to plastic deformation which causes them to move radially outward. In this way flared regions are formed on the clamping bolt. The plastic deformations inward in the circumferential regions of the pressing points and outward in the intermediate regions that is to say in the flared regions continue beyond the end section in which the press jaws act on the clamping bolt in the direction of the second end over a certain part of the longitudinal extent of the clamping bolt . This has the effect that in the regions of the circumferential extent of the intermediate regions a radial press fit is realized between the outer wall of the clamping bolt and the inner wall of the actuation lever surrounding the opening of the actuation lever . The outer wall of the clamping bolt is thus pressed together with the actuation lever over pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction.

As viewed in longitudinal central sections of the clamping bolt running through said pressing regions the outer wall of the clamping bolt is again of undercut form as viewed in the axial direction from the first end of the clamping bolt cf. in particular

The pin of the press tool is omitted in this second exemplary embodiment. It would in turn also be possible for use to be made of only two or more than three press jaws .

Instead of an encircling annular collar the actuation lever in this modified exemplary embodiment has bent over lugs which protrude from the main part . It is for example possible for three such lugs to be provided which in the mounted state on the clamping bolt are pressed by way of the pressing regions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction against the outer wall of the clamping bolt . The press tool with the jaws and the pin and the pressing process are in this case the same as those described on the basis of the first exemplary embodiment.

The lugs may be formed for example by way of a punching and subsequent bending process. In the mounted state on the clamping bolt said lugs extend from the main part in the axial direction of the clamping bolt toward the first end of the clamping bolt .

By means of the pressing action it is in turn possible for depressions which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction to be formed in the outer wall which depressions are engaged into by elevations formed as a result of the pressing process of the lugs .

It is also possible for two or more than two lugs arranged in succession in the circumferential direction to be provided.

