---

title: Integrated display and management of data objects based on social, temporal and spatial parameters
abstract: In an embodiment, a client device receives a query that specifies social, temporal and spatial parameters relative to a set of users (e.g., a source user or source user group). The client device determines degrees to which the specified parameters are related to a group of target users in social, temporal and spatial dimensions. The client device also determines an expected availability of one or more target users for interaction (e.g., interaction via particular types of communication session types, such as voice, video, text, etc.). The client device performs a processing function on at least one data object associated with the group of target users based on (i) whether the determined degrees of relation satisfy the specified parameters of the query, and (ii) the expected availability of the one or more target users in the group of target users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08806350&OS=08806350&RS=08806350
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08806350
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130312
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 625 543 filed Sep. 24 2012 entitled INTEGRATED DISPLAY AND MANAGEMENT OF DATA OBJECTS BASED ON SOCIAL TEMPORAL AND SPATIAL PARAMETERS Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 552 864 filed Sep. 2 2009 entitled INTEGRATED DISPLAY AND MANAGEMENT OF DATA OBJECTS BASED ON SOCIAL TEMPORAL AND SPATIAL PARAMETERS which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 094 376 filed on Sep. 4 2008 and entitled INTEGRATED DISPLAY OF USER CENTERED ACTIVITY AND SOCIAL PROXIMITY each of which is by the inventors of the subject application is assigned to the assignee hereof and is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Embodiments are directed to providing an integrated display and management of data objects based on social temporal and spatial parameters.

In mobile telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically contain various types of information relating to contacts calendar email and the like. Each type of information is typically categorized and presented to the user according to categories tailored for the particular type of information. For example calendar information is typically presented chronologically. Contact information is typically sorted and presented in alphabetical order. In some cases two types of information may be integrated. For example a calendar event may include contact information for persons invited to the event. The calendar event may further include location information if entered by the user.

Mobile devices typically have limited space for providing a user interface. In particular a mobile phone device with a numeric keypad may have limited screen space and key functions to provide detailed information and user interface options. Users must typically page through numerous screens and scroll through numerous menu choices to find the information they are looking for. For example if a user desires to find the contacts who have been invited to a calendar event the user must typically have a priori information regarding the name and type of event. The user must then open the event and search through a list of contacts. If the user desires to find more information regarding each contact person s relationship or location the user must open up each contact to find the information.

Such traditional user interfaces have limited ability to present information to the user that is intuitive and representative of how users actually think and perceive events places and people. People are typically perceived in terms of relationships and location. Events may be perceived more in terms of social importance and persons invited to the event in addition to location. However the traditional hierarchical segmented and menu driven structure of information provided in mobile devices do not provide such an intuitive and user friendly interface.

In an embodiment a client device receives a query that specifies social temporal and spatial parameters relative to a set of users e.g. a source user or source user group . The client device determines degrees to which the specified parameters are related to a group of target users in social temporal and spatial dimensions. The client device also determines an expected availability of one or more target users for interaction e.g. interaction via particular types of communication session types such as voice video text etc. . The client device performs a processing function on at least one data object associated with the group of target users based on i whether the determined degrees of relation satisfy the specified parameters of the query and ii the expected availability of the one or more target users in the group of target users.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

In this description the terms mobile communication device communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term group communication means a point to point or point to multipoint communication sent between wireless communication devices across true or virtual half duplex channels. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such as a core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the exchange server corresponds to one or more distributed servers that support messaging and collaborative software accessible through the Internet . For example Microsoft Exchange Server is a widely used type of the exchange server . As will be appreciated the exchange server can store contact information e.g. email contacts addresses etc. as well as associated messaging e.g. emails etc. and or calendar information e.g. meetings appointments etc. . Twitter is another example of a service that can be supported by the exchange server .

The social networking server corresponds to one or more distributed servers that support social networking services e.g. Facebook MySpace Orkut etc. to subscribers. The social networking server stores information related to the subscriber profiles as well as inter subscriber information e.g. a subscriber s friend list family list business contact list etc. . The social networking server can also evaluate and or generate social maps of users such as mapping subscribers that are indirectly related but do not have direct social links e.g. a friend of a friend etc. and so on. The social networking server can also store multimedia related to its subscribers such as posted multimedia files e.g. images audio files video files text files etc. and their associated information e.g. when the multimedia file was posted or generated a location associated with the multimedia file such as where a picture was taken or a sound was recorded subscribers or non subscribers who are associated with the multimedia file such as people speaking in an audio file or a location a picture was taken etc. .

As will be appreciated the functionality of the exchange server and the social networking server can overlap such that the functionality of each server can be consolidated into a single server or alternatively these different servers can be independent but can query each other for information when needed.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open a communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The social networking client is an application that offers access to social networking services e.g. connections to Facebook MySpace etc. through an external interface here shown at a social networking aware UI . The social networking client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as a social networking media client . In addition to providing access to social networking services with the social networking client the social networking client can act as an isolation layer between all social networking aware applications and the interface to the social networking server in an example. In this embodiment the social networking client maintains access to social networking services responds to social networking communication requests processes all social networking aware mobile operating system applications requests for social networking services and processes all outgoing social networking requests.

The social networking media client is a mobile operating system based application that extends social networking services for access to media associated with social networking e.g. a group session between socially networked contacts an exchange of image data video data etc. between socially networked contacts and or the social networking server etc. . Referring to illustrated is an exemplary mobile communications device and in particular the user interface for the device. The mobile communications device includes a display e.g. an LCD or OLED display . In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The mobile communications device may include a keypad e.g. a standard phone keypad a QWERTY keypad a physical tactile response keypad a soft key pad via a touch screen etc. . The mobile communications device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . In an example the navigation buttons may correspond to a directional pad capable of acquiring a desired direction from a user in other directions e.g. up left down right etc. . The navigation buttons may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft keys .

In various embodiments a system method and communication device are disclosed for providing integrated data management visualization and user interface capabilities on the communication device e.g. a mobile communications device . The user interface may provide a visual representation e.g. a social map a location map a time line of activities etc. of data objects e.g. activities events socially networked contacts multimedia files etc. along a temporal dimension e.g. a timeline a spatial dimension e.g. based on a distance to the user or a specified location or in a social dimension based on a social proximity of the data object itself e.g. based on an expected amount of interest the user has in the activities and or socially networked contacts being evaluated .

In one embodiment the temporal dimension may be configured to convey past or historical information e.g. for past activities or past locations of socially networked contacts present information e.g. based on real time information or information expected to be indicative of a current time or future information e.g. based on a projected schedule of events a calendar of a socially networked contact etc. . The data object may further be presented within a user selectable band of chronological time. For example bands may represent past events current events or planned future events. The time bands may comprise successive bands of future time. In various embodiments the present disclosure may be variously be referred to as integrated display or integrated zoom. 

In further embodiments within user selectable time based bands of data objects e.g. events activities multimedia files and or contacts data objects already completed or planned with users and groups may be represented along a dimension of social proximity i.e. a social dimension depicted by differential sizes and shapes of artifacts or icons e.g. whereby each artifact is configured to have a visual prominence indicative of the data object whereby similar data objects can be represented by similar artifacts to aid the user s visual recognition of the event and or contact . By providing the capability to pan across data objects in different spatial social and or temporal dimensions e.g. events and activities that have occurred or locations visited by socially networked contacts within a current time band users can extract and retain context based on various attributes of the data objects. In an example where the data object corresponds to an activity such attributes may comprise 

The contextual information obtained from the attributes of the activities may also be used to plan future activities. The user may repeat a specific activity immediately or at a later time. Activities may encompass various actions that a user perform on a mobile device such as push to talk one to one and conference voice calls and push to share objects such as pictures videos notes chats emoticons planned calendar events and other pieces of information.

In yet another embodiment a visual representation of a set of data objects e.g. activities events socially networked contacts etc. may be implemented on axes within a three dimensional coordinate framework with the axes corresponding to a spatial dimension e.g. distance etc. a temporal dimension e.g. time and a social dimension e.g. the user s expected amount of interest in the event or socially networked content or social proximity . By navigating over the spatial and social proximity axes or dimensions a user may further be provided the capability to select contacts within a frame of reference for the purpose of commencing activities with the selected contacts. Thus the particular data objects represented on the graph can correspond to event or activities with their associated spatial and temporal information or alternatively can correspond to socially networked contacts of the user with their associated spatial and temporal information.

Alternatively the visual representation itself need not display each of the dimensions but the manner in which the data objects are displayed are still based on each of the three dimensions. For example if the visual representation corresponds to a location map of a geographic area the actual visual representation displays the spatial dimension. However the actual data objects displayed on the location map in their corresponding locations also satisfy the temporal and social parameters for the query in order to be displayed on the location map in the first place. Thus while a geographic map is typically used to indicate location in this case the artifacts representing data objects that appear on the map also function to indicate that the respective data objects satisfy the other parameters of the query and not merely the location parameter.

In a further example the point of origin of the visual representation for the data object representation in may be indicative of a query e.g. for a given user specifying the point of origin e.g. a subscriber s or subscriber group s social profile a time of interest and a location of interest and a desired dimension range along each axes for display. Thus in an example if a given user wishes to view his socially network contacts within three 3 miles of his current position the query consists of a social parameter e.g. which can default to any direct friend of the user if the user does not narrow or expand on his her requested contacts for viewing a spatial parameter e.g. the combination of the user s current position and its three mile radius and a temporal parameter e.g. a current time which can include a default time range such that any locations of contacts known to be current with a threshold amount of time such within the last 10 minutes are considered to be current . In this example the visual representation would then include a display of each direct contact of the user currently within the specified three mile radius. The actual representation of the contacts could be via an associated artifact e.g. a picture of the contact a picture of the location that the contact is at a video indicative of the social relationship of the user to the contact etc. .

While this example has been given in terms of socially networked contacts of the user it will appreciated that activities could also be specified in a similar manner such that the user queries for a display of his her preferred activities as indicative in his her social profile or queries for a specific activity e.g. golf bowling with the data objects corresponding either to socially networked contacts sharing an interest in the activity and or locations where the activity is available e.g. golf courses bowling alleys etc. .

For example if the visual representation corresponds to a location map the visual representation can display a given location range with a field of zoom based on the spatial parameter and the locations of each data object satisfying the spatial social and temporal parameters can be shown at their corresponding locations within the given location range. Thus the user can view the location map and know that each artifact is associated with a matching result of the query and can infer its respective location. Alternatively if the visual representation corresponds to a social map the visual representation can display the matching results in a manner such that the user s social relationship to the matching data objects can be inferred from the display. Alternatively if the visual representation corresponds to a time line the visual representation can display the matching results in a manner such that the timing of the data object e.g. an occurrence of an event when a contact will be at a location corresponding to the spatial parameter etc. can be inferred from a visual inspection of the display.

Other representations may be implemented in various embodiments using two of the three types of information physical distance time and social proximity . For example space based zooming may be provided in two axes with the horizontal axis representing longitudinal or east west distance and the vertical axis representing latitudinal or north south distance. Various embodiments are contemplated by the current disclosure in which a more integrated user interface may be provided to enable a user to access view and manage information on a mobile device in a more intuitive fashion.

According to the tenets of activity theory activity is the primary context from a human centered perspective. Activity theory theorizes that when people engage and interact with their environment various tools and processes may result. These tools and processes may be exterior manifestations of mental and social processes and as such these tools and processes may be more readily accessible and communicable to other people. Such tools and processes may be particularly useful for social interaction. In a framework derived from activity theory tasks and activities can be subdivided into actions which are further subdivided into operations. In a system design context using these categories can provide an understanding of the steps necessary for a user to carry out a task. The present disclosure contemplates the implementation of activity theory principles to provide an intuitive user interface for managing and accessing information on mobile devices.

User activities may be considered within the framework depicted in . As will be appreciated the description of provides examples regarding how social proximity or a degree of social relationship from the user or user group or point of origin to a given data object e.g. in this case an activity can be determined. When considering human activity three essential triads may be considered. depicts the subject rules community triad. depicts the community roles object triad. depicts the subject tools object triad. In the Subject Rules Community Triad people follow implicit and explicit rules within a community. Social networks are scale free networks containing a few hubs of highly connected people and many satellites connected by spokes. Social networks continue adding newer people and hence keep growing. A new person is more likely to join a group that already has many connections .

In the Community Roles Object triad for the purpose of performing an activity people conform to hierarchies and take on roles for the division of labor. In the Subject Tools Object triad people need mediation to perform activities via appropriate tools. The tools selected should provide adequate mediation for the object objective at hand. Using event snapshots from analogy with a Minkowski Space Time diagram provides a mechanism to form and retain spatio temporal context by considering activities as events. depicts an exemplary Space Time diagram . Future and past events may be represented by the absolute future light cone and the absolute past light cone with the intersection of the two cones indicating the present time . Events can then be represented as event snapshots as slices of the past or future light cones. Again while is illustrated and described with respect to events the same teachings can apply to other types of data objects such as socially networked contacts of a user where the event corresponds to a location expectation of the contact at a particular time as inferred from the contact s calendar meeting schedule etc.

In view of the foregoing discussion various views filters and containers are disclosed that may enable users to perform activities in context. In an embodiment three main views may be provided. In an embodiment of an activity map e.g. which is an example of a visual representation of data objects corresponding to activities that match the parameters of a query from the user the activity map view may present snapshots of activities as events on a timeline analogous to events in space time. Completed events may be indicated as historical events and may be represented as near in past time for events occurring in the near past. Events in the more distant past may be represented as far in past time. Planned events may be indicated as future events and events in the near future may be represented as near in future time. Events in the distant future may be represented as far in future time. Accordingly if the temporal position of the point of origin or the temporal parameter of the query corresponds to the present then the position of the data object in the temporal dimension corresponds how far away in time the data object e.g. the event or activity in this case was or is expected to be.

In an embodiment navigation across the various data objects e.g. events contacts multimedia files etc. as described above may be accomplished on a mobile communications device using available keys. In a device with a numeric keypad soft keys may be used. A soft key is a button which may perform an assignable function dependent on the text or other indication shown on the display near the button at the moment that the button is pressed. In one embodiment such soft keys may be used for zooming in and out through the display e.g. where to zoom means to modify the illustrated spatial temporal and or social dimensions of the visual representation for the data objects . In further embodiments the five button type navigation keys with left right up down arrows and the OK button may be used. In some embodiments the OK button may double up as the push to share button.

In an embodiment one soft key may be assigned as a zoom out function and one soft key may be assigned as a zoom in function. Zooming out may traverse the time direction toward the past or toward increasing event history. Zooming in may traverse the time direction toward the future or toward increasing planned events. In an embodiment of a three dimensional framework for representing activities the time direction may be assigned to the Y axis as shown in . However it will be appreciated that the user is permitted to zoom in any of the dimensions not merely in time. For example the user can zoom out with regard to the spatial dimension which can correspond to increasing a range for the spatial parameter such that further distances satisfy the query of the user. In another example the user can zoom in with regard to the social dimension which can correspond to increasing the social requirements for the social parameter such that it takes closer social relationships to satisfy the query of the user e.g. show only family members is a narrower requirements as compared to show both friends and family members . As will be appreciated zooming can correspond to expanding or contracting a field of view or alternatively to a shifting of a field of view so that the same amount of data is viewed from a different perspective e.g. in a time example the user can shift from a view of data objects occurring in the next week to a view of data objects occurring the following week so that both views display one week s worth of data objects albeit in different time periods .

As the user navigates through the data objects in the visual representation the user may select a given data object by highlighting e.g. right clicking the given data object. By clicking on the OK button the interface may provide details of the data object such as an event. For example the display may indicate the location date time and invitees to the event. Alternatively if the data object is a socially networked contact then highlighting or selecting the data object may result in a display of the contact s profile or other information. The display may also indicate actions that may be selected by the user for the selected event. In the case that the data object is an event such actions may include for example updating the event details inviting other contacts joining the event or cancelling the event. In the case that the data object is a contact such actions may include messaging the contact adding a comment to a wall of the contact s social profile adding the contact as a friend etc.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary user interface that may be implemented on a mobile communications device such as a cell phone. Display may be an LCD or OLED display that provides visual representations of data objects to a mobile phone user. The display may include a title area that indicates the current type of user interface currently presented. In the example of a plurality of data objects may be presented in a radial fashion from a center point on the display. The data objects may be presented as artifacts or icons as illustrated. Other embodiments may use thumbnails or other graphic indicators as desired. Some data objects may be represented with user IDs or other means of identifying an artifact or icon within a limited display area. The specific manner by which a given data object is illustrated or represented within the display may be referred to as an artifact . In an example similar artifacts may be associated with similar data objects or among data objects that share a given proximity to the point of origin of the query among one or more of the spatial social and or temporal dimensions.

For example if two particular data objects correspond to events taking place at the same time and or location the two data objects may share a common visual feature within their artifacts to convey this similarity. In another example if two particular data objects correspond to events related to the same type of activity e.g. two different bowling tournaments the two data objects may share a common visual feature within their artifacts to convey this similarity e.g. an image of a person bowling of a bowling pin etc. . In another example if two particular data objects correspond to family contacts the two data objects may share a common visual feature within their artifacts to convey this similarity e.g. such as an image having a particular color background that is shared by all family members . In another example icon or artifact may be identified with a three letter acronym or initials of a contact. It will be appreciated that many different types of artifacts can be used for visually representing different data objects and the example given above in this section are non limiting.

Soft keys and may be assigned to functions as indicated on the display. Referring to the figure soft key may be assigned to the indication . Soft key may be assigned to the indication on the display. The user interface may also include navigation buttons for navigating in the up down left and right directions. The interface may also include a selection button typically embodied as an OK button.

As explained above the user may navigate through the display by selecting the navigation buttons . In an example the initial display of data objects in the display may be considered to be an initial query of the user with the displayed data objects satisfying initial settings for social temporal and spatial parameters of the user. However the user is not restricted to the initial display of data objects in the display . Rather for example selection of left and right navigation buttons may scroll through different categories of data objects such as activities locations events and the like. Navigating with the up and down buttons may move the active display area to upper and lower levels of hierarchy such that one or more of the social temporal and or spatial parameters of the query are modified. For example a current active area may be the activity icon area . By pressing the up arrow button the active area may be shifted to the primary subject area which in the figure indicates my activity map. The user may then select the left or right navigation buttons to change the subject area for example to my things which means the data objects displayed in the display transition from activities e.g. events etc. to things e.g. multimedia files etc. . After the user navigates to the desired type of data object the data objects satisfying the current social temporal and spatial parameters are displayed to the user and so on. As will be described in greater detail below the user can then modify the parameters e.g. spatial temporal and or social parameters of the query that are used to determine which data objects to display.

When the active area is the icon area the user may select to zoom in or out by pressing the or zoom soft keys which further modifies the social temporal and or spatial parameters for the data objects thereby affecting which data objects are displayed to the user. Referring to when a user presses the zoom out button one or more of the social temporal and or spatial parameters are modified such that the field of view may be expanded to include a new circle of data objects with the previous circle of activities represented as a smaller circle indicating that the circle is further from view. In particular zooming out in this instance means the point of origin for the query has changed and a new set of data objects that are within a given range of the new point of origin in the social spatial and or temporal dimensions are displayed. As shown in data objects more closely matching the updated query can be more prominently displayed in the display e.g. circle is larger and more prominent than circle etc. . Likewise if the zoom button is selected the field of view may zoom in to provide the circle of activities as previously indicated in . Accordingly the zoom buttons permit the user to modify the point of origin for the query such that the user can focus on different times locations social relationships etc. in the display e.g. show my friends who are at the baseball game now can transition to show me bowling tournaments taking place tonight near my house etc. . The user can also modify the dimension ranges that will satisfy the query for each circle or level such that the user can expand or contract the data objects displayed relative to the same point of origin e.g. show me next week s activities can transition to show me next month s activities and so on .

The user may further use the up right left and down navigation keys to choose a field of view and further to select items within the field of view. For example referring to a user may use the up and down navigation buttons to move the selected field of view from the title area to the icon area . The user may then use the right and left navigation keys to select a particular icon as the currently active icon or artifact. In the example shown in a circle indicates a currently active icon or artifact. Other methods of indicating an active icon or artifact may be used such as highlighting creating shadow effects and the like.

In an embodiment visual representations for the data objects e.g. activity maps etc. may be created and modified via a website e.g. maintained by the social networking server etc. and may be uploaded via the internet . For example a web based service may provide access to a user account associated with the mobile communication device. The service may authenticate a user and provide the user with various account management functions. The user may further be able to create and modify social networking information using the web service. Once the user has created or modified social networking information on the website an over the airwaves download may provide the information to the handset thus updating the new information on the handset.

In an embodiment a new data object may be generated by providing a new data object wizard to facilitate intuitive and efficient creation of new data objects e.g. new contacts activities and or events . Such a wizard may provide for example a mechanism to select people contacts places locations data or media entities things and a time value. The time value may not be a specific time or date but may be selected relative to a current time value. For example a user may select a person in a contact list select a location and select a time value that may indicate a now versus later choice.

In another embodiment the visual representation may correspond to a social map representing contacts and groups along a dimension of social proximity Contacts may include individuals organizations and other entities. Groups may comprise collections of contacts as defined by the user or by the device. Social proximity may generally be defined as an indication of a degree of a relationship typically between two persons along the social dimension. In one embodiment icons or artifacts may be displayed on the mobile communications device indicating close and distant people contacts e.g. close contacts may be displayed more prominently than distance contacts etc. . Such a representation may provide an indication for a user to quickly and intuitively ascertain social relationships. Social proximity may for example be indicated as closer distant friend friend of a friend and the like. Alternatively social proximity determined by the number and or type of social interactions e.g. based on a number of exchanged instant messages or emails a number of pictures the user and the contact appear in the same picture together etc. .

As indicated above in one embodiment navigation across the various data objects e.g. contacts may be accomplished on a mobile communications device using available keys. Examples in the embodiments given above with respect to have generally described the data objects and associated artifacts as being activities or events whereby the visual representation of the data objects becomes an activity map. If the data objects are restricted to socially networked contacts the resultant visual representation may be referred to as a social map as will now be described with respect to .

In a device with a numeric keypad soft keys may be used. In an embodiment navigation across the data objects may be accomplished by using soft keys on the mobile communications device for zooming in and out through the visual representation e.g. social map of the data objects. In further embodiments the five button type navigation keys with left right up down arrows and the OK button may be used. In some embodiments the OK button may double up as the push to share button.

As discussed above one soft key may be assigned as a zoom out function and one soft key may be assigned as a zoom in function. Zooming in and out may result in updating the corresponding number of contacts or people in the frame of reference. For example zooming out may increase the number of contacts or people within the frame of reference based on social proximity as indicated by the number and placement of icons or artifacts on the display . In an example in terms of social proximity an example of zooming in may be to transition from a display of family and friends to a display of friends only or family only. In another example an example of zooming out may be to transition from friends only or family only to a display of family and friends. Alternatively a shift of the displayed social proximity can also occur whereby the display transitions from a display of friends only to a display of family only.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary user interface that may be implemented on a mobile communications device providing a social map comprising personal contacts. Display may be an LCD or OLED display that provides visual representations of data to a mobile phone user. The display may include a title area that indicates that the current type of user interface currently presented is my contacts. Accordingly in the data objects under consideration correspond to the socially networked contacts of the user. Various contact icons or artifacts may be presented in a radial fashion from a center point on the display. Other embodiments may use thumbnails or other graphic indicators as desired. Some contacts may be presented with user IDs or other means of identifying an icon within a limited display area. For example icon or artifact may be identified with a three letter acronym or initials of a contact.

Soft keys and may be assigned to functions as indicated on the display. The user interface may also include navigation buttons for navigating in the up down left and right directions. The interface may also include a selection button typically embodied as an OK button.

As explained above the user may navigate through the display by selecting the navigation buttons . For example selection of left and right navigation buttons may scroll through different categories of contacts such as those limited to a particular alphabetic range or groups that have been identified by the user. Navigating with the up and down buttons may move the active display area to upper and lower levels of hierarchy. For example a current active area may be the activity icon area . By pressing the up arrow button the active area may be shifted to the primary subject area which in the figure indicates my contacts. The user may then select the left or right navigation buttons to change the subject area for example to my things. Further active areas may be provided to indicate whether the current display indicates a particular alphabetic range the user s defined groups or other categories.

When the active area is the icon or artifact area the user may select to zoom in or out by pressing the or zoom soft keys upon which closer or farther levels of contacts may be provided on the display area . In this case the user can either i change the point of origin for the query to change the display of the data objects or ii can modify the dimension ranges from the point of origin in the spatial temporal and or social dimensions to adjust which data objects qualify for display. As indicated in an outer circle of icons or artifacts may be provided indicating a more distant social proximity for those contacts represented in the circle. The inner circle of contacts may indicate a closer or more intimate social proximity by virtue of their representation as being closer to the center point of the display. Alternatively the larger artifacts of the outer circle may indicate a closer social relationship than the inner circle. When a user presses the zoom out button the field of view may be expanded to include a new circle of contacts with the previous circle of activities represented as the smaller circle. Likewise if the zoom button is selected the field of view may zoom in to expand the inner circle to the outer circle and further provide a new inner circle comprising yet another closer or more intimate circle of contacts.

In a further embodiment social maps may be created and modified via a website e.g. maintained by social networking server and may be uploaded via the internet . For example a web based service may provide access to a user account associated with the mobile communication device. The service may authenticate a user and provide the user with various account management functions. The user may further be able to created and modify data objects such as contacts and groups using the web service. Contacts and groups may further be created as aliases and placed along a social map provided by the website. Once the user has created or modified social map information on the website an over the airwaves download may provide the information to the handset thus updating the new information on the handset.

As the user navigates through the social map on the mobile device by selecting a zoom level the user may select a contact or group by highlighting the contact or group. In one embodiment by then clicking on the OK button the people within the viewed social frame of reference may be selected. The interface may further provide details of the selected contacts or groups. For example the display may indicate the names and contact information. The display may also indicate actions that may be selected by the user for the selected event. Such actions may include for example updating the contact details inviting the contacts or deleting the event. In an embodiment a social map wizard may be provided to facilitate intuitive and efficient creation of new contacts and groups and initiating actions with them. By further progressing through a wizard various activities such as making calls sharing information initiating games and the like may be commenced or scheduled.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various categories and types of social proximity indicators discussed above are exemplary and many implementations of a social proximity measure may be used to reflect a particular social or cultural context. For example the above examples included social proximity measures such as friend and relative. Another example is a social proximity measure based on the length of a relationship such as recently met or long time friend. In various embodiments the concept of social proximity may include any number of related measures that may be useful for a particular context.

In one embodiment a social proximity measure of trust may be used to instantiate a dimension of social proximity that may be useful for a number of activities and transactions related to a user s mobile community. Trust can generally be considered a measure of a particular contact s trustworthiness with respect to transactions typically requiring authentication and security in other settings. For example in an online system a trusted client may be an individual or entity with good credit and means for payment for online purchases. In a social networking context a trusted contact may be a person who may be considered a trusted friend or family member in an online community and a contact who may likewise be trusted by others in the online community.

In at least one embodiment a social map view may present a social map representing contacts and groups along a dimension of trust. In other words the social dimension may be indicative of how far a contact can be trusted instead of how close the contact is to the user e.g. although these two criteria can certainly be correlated . Thus distance along the social dimension need not be based merely on emotional closeness due to a familial relationship for instance but could be based on a trust metric. For example the user may have a sibling that he she is very close to but with whom the user has little trust e.g. if the user s sister is a notorious gossip the user can love his her sister while not trusting the sister very far . If the social dimension is configured to indicate the degree of trust of the user even a close relative could thereby not be close from the perspective of a trust relationship. As will be appreciated the social parameter of the query can thereby either be to rank and display data objects in accordance with emotional social closeness or alternatively based on a different type of social closeness such as trust.

Contacts may include individuals organizations and other entities each of whom may be associated with a level of trust by the user. In one embodiment icons or artifacts representing contacts may be displayed on the mobile communications device in a radial fashion with icons closer to the center indicating higher degrees of trust. Such a representation may provide an indication such that the user may quickly and intuitively ascertain trust levels for contacts. Levels of trust may for example be indicated as not trusted socially trusted only trusted for financial transactions and the like. In one embodiment the social map may only provide for two levels trusted and not trusted. In other embodiments more varied levels and types of trust may be included.

In one embodiment the trust levels entered by one user may be pushed to other users in the mobile community. For example when a user enters a new contact the new contact along with the contact s level of trust may be pushed to other members in the user s social networking group. Alternatively when a user modifies a contact s level of trust the changes may be pushed to other members of the user s mobile community. Thus once a user establishes a level of trust with a contact the entire group or community may by extension be afforded the same level of trust by virtue of each user s membership in the group or community. One with skill in the art will recognize that such a process provides a means of authenticating contacts for various transactions and activities in the context of the mobile community. The initial user by virtue of marking a contact with a level of trust will have typically authenticated the contact as a result of personal knowledge and experience with the contact. Since the other members of the user s mobile community will typically trust the initial user by virtue of the user s membership in the mobile community further authentication will typically not be needed in order for the new contact to be pushed to the other members as a trusted contact. As will be appreciated the pushing of trust levels for a socially networked contact of the user to other socially networked contacts of the user corresponds to a sharing of data object attributes between users which are themselves data objects. A more detailed explanation regarding how data objects and or data object attributes can be shared between users will be described in greater detail below with respect to .

The mobile device may provide various options for transactions and activities that may be allowed or enabled as a function of trust levels. In one embodiment a mobile bidding mechanism may be implemented wherein offers and acceptances for financial transactions may be exchanged between trusted contacts within a social network. Because a threshold level of authentication may be presumed for a trusted network of contacts such a bidding mechanism implemented among a mobile user community and their associated trusted contacts may provide a secure closed network for carrying out secure transactions without the overhead of continuous user identification authorization and security protocols. One of skill in the art will recognize that such a mechanism may provide a more efficient and or secure infrastructure compared to online systems in which inherent security may be difficult to implement.

Using such a social network of trusted contacts various methods of electronic commerce may be implemented. As noted above electronic bidding including time based or price based bidding may be implemented using such a framework. In other embodiments electronic objects may be exchanged the objects representing financial or other measures of value such as electronic coupons and certificates. As discussed above because trusted contacts within a mobile community have been pre authenticated by virtue of having been ascribed a trusted status by at least one user such electronic objects of value may be exchanged with the contacts without the need for continuous identification and authentication.

In one embodiment the mobile communication device may provide further options and settings to allow the user to configure the specific transactions and activities that may be allowed as a function of trust levels. General settings may be configured for enabling transactions depending on a contact s level of trust. Specific settings may also be provided to allow for example specific transactions to occur only for specifically marked contacts. For example a user may configure the mobile device to allow all transactions associated with any contact labeled as trusted. Alternatively in an embodiment wherein three trust levels have been defined as highly trusted trusted and not trusted the user may configure the mobile device to only allow financial transactions associated with contacts labeled as highly trusted. The user may additionally configure the mobile device to allow contacts labeled as trusted to receive data regarding financial activity but not to receive offers for financial transactions. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many levels of trust and actions associated with the levels of trust may be implemented in a given mobile community context using the infrastructure disclosed herein.

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary process for displaying a user interface on a mobile communications device in accordance with some of the methods disclosed herein. The device may be a mobile communication device with a user that belongs to a social network through which the user can connect with other members of the social network over the wireless communications system. In a device may receive and store inputs from the user the inputs including contact information of a plurality of contacts and an associated level of trust for each one of the contacts. The inputs may be provided by another system for receiving inputs in which the system is associated with the mobile user s account e.g. such as the exchange server the social networking server etc. . The inputs may also be provided directly by the user on the mobile device. Alternatively the inputs may be retrieved from the device s memory if previously received.

In the device may transmit contact information to at least one member of its social networking group. For example when a contact and an associated level of trust are entered into a mobile device the device may automatically transmit the contact information to other members of the communications group. Alternatively the device may prompt the user as to whether to transmit the contact information to other users. The level of trust may generally be a trusted level or a non trusted level. Additional trust levels may be used in some embodiments.

A user may for example desire to transmit a financially sensitive data object such as an object representing an offer to sell. The user may navigate to a social proximity screen on the mobile device and further navigate to a display of one or more trusted contacts available on the device whereby the social proximity screen corresponds to a visual representation of the data objects which in this case are socially networked contacts of the user. In the device may determine that a level of trust associated with each contact is a trusted level when displaying the display. In other words assuming that a social parameter for the user s query related to the visual representation permits trusted contacts to be displayed thereon then an artifact associated with each trusted contact can be displayed e.g. so long as the trusted contacts also satisfy the spatial and or temporal parameters of the query . The user may further select an option to transmit the offer to sell to each of the trusted contacts. In process the device may transmit a message representing an economic value of a produce or service for sale to each of the trusted contacts.

The trusted contacts having received the offer to sell may review the offer to sell. The trusted contacts may recognize that the offer to sell was received by a trusted contact having stored the originating sender s contact information on their respective devices as a trusted contact. Finally in process the originating sender may receive a message representing an acceptance of the offer to sell. Accordingly demonstrates a process by which the visual representation of data objects e.g. contacts can be used in association with an e commerce transaction.

In another embodiment a location map view may present a location map representing a spatial map with the user in the center with contacts and groups situated outwards from the user. The contacts and groups may be represented by icons or artifacts on the location map situated by their approximate spatial or geographic location. In other words the artifacts associated with each data object e.g. contacts activities etc. are displayed at a position on the location map corresponding to their associated location with their distance from the center e.g. the user s position corresponding to the degree of relation from the user s position which in this example is the spatial point of origin for the query. The viewable area of the location map in an example can correspond to the bounds of the spatial parameter along the spatial dimension such that data objects outside the viewable range are not displayed on the location map.

In an embodiment navigation across the contacts and groups may be accomplished by using soft keys on the mobile communications device for zooming in and out through the location map. For example zooming in on the location map narrows the viewable location range which restricts the number of data objects that are displayed whereas zooming out on the location map expands on the viewable location range which can increase the number of data objects that are displayed. In a further example the user can shift in either direction along the location axis whereby the viewable range is unchanged but the axis portion that is displayed is modified e.g. the location map displays a two mile radius from a different spatial point of origin without modifying the actual radius of the location map . In further embodiments the five button type navigation keys with left right up down arrows and the OK button may be used. In some embodiments the OK button may double up as the push to share button.

One soft key may be assigned as a zoom out function and one soft key may be assigned as a zoom in function. Zooming in may update the display and represent contacts spatially closer to the user. Zooming out may increase the spatial frame of reference and display contacts with an increasing spatial area for display. In another example a soft key can be used for shifting in either direction on an axis without zooming in or zooming out.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary user interface that may be implemented on a mobile communications device providing a location map with personal points of interest and contacts. The display may include a title area that indicates that the current type of user interface currently presented is my locations. Various location icons or artifacts may be presented in an approximate spatial or geographic fashion on the display. Other embodiments may use thumbnails or other graphic indicators as desired. Some points of contact may be presented with artifacts tagged with user IDs or other means of identifying a data object within a limited display area. For example artifact may be identified with a three letter acronym or initials of a contact.

As explained above the user may navigate through the display by selecting the navigation buttons . For example selection of left and right navigation buttons may scroll through different categories of locations such as those limited to a particular geographic range. Navigating with the up and down buttons may move the active display area to upper and lower levels of hierarchy. For example a current active area may be the activity icon area . By pressing the up arrow button the active area may be shifted to the primary subject area which in the figure indicates my locations. The user may then select the left or right navigation buttons to change the subject area for example to my things. Further active areas may be provided to indicate whether the current display indicates a particular geographic range locations related only to contacts entertainment locations or other categories.

When the active area is the icon or artifact area the user may select to zoom in or out by pressing the or zoom soft keys upon which closer or farther zooming levels of the geographic features on the map may be provided on the display area . When a user presses the zoom out button the field of view may be expanded to include a larger mapping area. Likewise if the zoom button is selected the field of view may zoom in to expand the mapping view. The user s desired points of contact may be represented on the display in accordance with their relative locations on the respective mapping views. As described above with respect to the bounds of the location map may restrict which data objects are displayed thereon for example such that only data objects associated with locations displayable within the location map s viewing range are displayed thereon. Accordingly in the example of the displayable portion of the spatial dimension is restricted by the spatial point of origin that the location map is centered around along with the zoom level or the location range being displayed.

In a further embodiment location maps may be created and modified via a website and may be uploaded via the internet. For example a web based service may provide access to a user account associated with the mobile communication device. The service may authenticate a user and provide the user with various account management functions. The user may further be able to create and modify location information using the web service. Address points of interest and other location information may further be added to contacts and activities and placed along a location map provided by the website. Once the user has created or modified location map information on the website an over the airwaves download may provide the information to the handset thus updating the new information on the handset.

As the user navigates through the location map on the mobile device by selecting a zoom level the user may select a contact or group by highlighting the contact or group. In one embodiment by then clicking on the OK button the people within the viewed spatial frame of reference may be selected. The interface may further provide details of the selected data object. For example the display may indicate the names and contact information associated with the selected data object. The display may also indicate actions that may be selected by the user for the selected data object. Such actions may include for example updating the contact details inviting the contacts or deleting the event. In an embodiment a location map wizard may be provided to facilitate intuitive and efficient creation of new data objects e.g. events activities contacts and groups and initiating actions with them. By further progressing through a wizard various activities such as making calls sharing information initiating games and the like may be commenced or scheduled.

In another embodiment the location map view may also provide a traversed route and a planned route along with a destination. Such a view may be provided from the perspective of the user and provide a top down view or a user centric view. This is a representation of the most updated location in conjunction with the location update history past locations or route and planned future location or route. Such a traversed route or planned route view can be helpful for a user in dispatch scenarios e.g. trucks taxicabs etc. when re routing is needed.

In other embodiments filters may be provided to provide context to aid a user in finding and managing information on the mobile communications device. For example in one embodiment a voice call filter may be provided for voice call events. The voice call filter may provide a temporal call history that includes a listing of incoming and outgoing calls ordered chronologically by the time and date received. Each phone call may further include a representation of the social proximity of the users and or groups involved in the call. Accordingly a degree of relation between a time in a point of origin for a query such as a current time can be compared with the time from the data objects which in this case are phone calls. Thereby the user can view artifacts e.g. pictures of callees etc. on a display representative of phone calls received within a given time range or a given degree range in the temporal dimension. The displayed artifacts can be further restricted such that only callers satisfying a social parameter of the query are displayed e.g. only display calls from friends and family etc. and can be further restricted such that only callers satisfying a spatial parameter e.g. from callers in a particular location region etc. of the query are displayed.

Similarly filters may be provided for other types of data objects such as a notes filter a pictures and videos filter a games filter a music filter and the like. Such filters may provide further contextual filtering based on the specific types of activities. For example a picture filter may provide a list of photo files sorted by categories such as location contact or associated activity. The photo filter may further include a representation of the social proximity of the contacts associated with the photo.

In further embodiments containers may be provided for collecting and organizing information on the mobile communications device. In one embodiment four main containers may be provided for people places things and settings. A people container may include contacts and groups that are arranged alphabetically and in a radial fashion according to social proximity. Such an arrangement may thus include closer circles and distant circles. The user may control and navigate through the interface using the navigation methods described above. A number of examples with regard to how different containers can be used to exchange information between different socially networked contacts is described below with respect to

In an embodiment when a user is adding a new data object e.g. a new contact and or a group the user interface may provide a mechanism to order them by social proximity. Such a mechanism may include providing a wizard as described above. Furthermore various categories of social proximity may be used. In one non limiting example social proximity types may comprise closest closer not so close and distant. A list of social proximity types may be expanded to provide more options. For example the list can be expanded to include family friends friend of a friend and the like. Alternatively each category in the list may include subcategories. For example the category of family may be further subdivided into parents siblings and in laws. Any number and combination of categories may be used to represent the social categories that are important to the user of the mobile communications device.

In order to facilitate more efficient selection entry and management of information in one embodiment a soft key or other indication may provide a simple means of cycling through the various social proximity options for a selected contact or group. For example selection of a distance indicator on a contact or and group may cause the contact or group to move outward from the center indicating a more distant social proximity.

In another embodiment a spatial container may be provided for places or locations that are shared between users and groups. Places may be represented as aliases that may have properties of latitude and longitude and or point of interest data. Places may be initiated or modified via a wizard as described above. Places may also be initiated or modified via a corresponding website via a user account associated with the mobile communications device. Once a place has been added or updated the aliases can be downloaded over the air to the mobile communications device. The website may also provide the option for the user to share items with other users. Once the places are downloaded to the user s mobile communications device the mobile communications device may map out the location spatially in context as described above. In this manner a given data object e.g. an event a contact a multimedia file etc. can become associated with a particular location which can then be used to determine a degree of relationship to a spatial parameter of a query such that data objects satisfying the spatial parameter of the query are displayed to the user. In an embodiment places may be arranged spirally on the display indicating the date time that the place was added and controllable via the above described navigation.

A things container may include data objects such as pictures music videos and notes that can be shared between users and groups. The things container may also contain games that are played between users and groups. Things may be initiated or modified via a wizard as described above. Things may also be initiated or modified via a corresponding website via a user account associated with the mobile communications device. Once a thing has been added or updated the aliases can be downloaded over the air to the mobile communications device. The website may also provide the option for the user to share items with other users. Once the items are downloaded to the user s mobile communications device the mobile communications device may map out the location spatially in context as described above. In an embodiment things may be arranged spirally on the display indicating the date time that the things e.g. places multimedia files such as pictures music etc. were added and controllable via the above described navigation.

Referring to illustrated is an example photo container provided on display . A thumbnail or other representation of a photo object is indicated in artifact . In the example shown the photo objects are arranged spirally on the display indicating the date time that the photo was added.

A settings container may include settings for volume modes preferences and the like. Settings may be arranged spirally on the device s display showing changes in amplitude frequency and time. Navigation and control may be provided using the above described navigation.

Referring to zoom indicators A A and A indicate the current zoom of a display A for a set of data objects. In particular the fill level of the pyramids of the zoom indicators A A and A indicate the manner in which the set of data objects are being filtered in the temporal spatial and social dimensions respectively. For example a completely full pyramid indicates a full zoom such that a relatively narrow time space or social relationship will satisfy the requirements for being displayed in the display A whereas an empty pyramid means that a particular dimension is zoomed out such that any value for that dimension will satisfy the display requirements. Likewise an intervening level of fill indicates an intermediate level of zoom. Accordingly while the display A primarily shows social relationships of the displayed data objects it will be appreciated that any data objects displayed in the display A also satisfy the temporal and or spatial requirements which corresponds to the level of zoom as indicated by the fill of the periods. Accordingly if the temporal zoom requires a time period corresponding to last week be displayed and the spatial zoom requires the user s current city to be displayed then a social contact that was out of town last week would not be displayed irrespective of how the contact is to the user.

Still referring to degree indicators A A and A indicate how different degrees of relationship in the display A for the social dimension are displayed such that socially close data objects are displayed in an inner circle of the display A socially near data objects are displayed in a middle circle of the display A and socially far data objects are displayed in an outer circle of the display A. Data object type indicators A A and A designate which types of data objects the user can select for display with showing people locations and or things as available data objects that are displayable on the display A. In it may be assumed that the user has selected people i.e. the user s socially networked contacts as the set of data objects to be displayed that the user has selected the social dimension as dominant and that the user selects only close relationships to be displayed via degree indicator A.

Accordingly the display A shows in this example four quadrants of contacts corresponding to work friends family and others . Because the user has indicated only close relationships be displayed and close data objects are displayed in the inner circle only contacts in the user s inner circle are shown in display A. Specifically one close work contact and one close family contact are shown in the display A with each displayed contact represented with a different picture or artifact e.g. having different visual attributes such as size etc. that affect their prominence in the display A . From the display A shown in it will be appreciated that the user can navigate to different display criteria within the dominant social dimension or social map or can switch the dominant dimension to the spatial or temporal dimension.

Referring to zoom indicators B B and B indicate the current zoom of a display B for a set of data objects with the spatial dimension set as dominant. In particular as in the fill level of the pyramids of the zoom indicators B B and B indicate the manner in which the set of data objects are being filtered in the temporal spatial and social dimensions respectively.

Still referring to degree indicators B B and B indicate how different degrees of relationship in the display B for the spatial dimension are displayed such that spatially close data objects are displayed in an inner circle of the display B spatially near data objects are displayed in a middle circle of the display B and spatially far data objects are displayed in an outer circle of the display B. Data object type indicators B B and B designate which types of data objects the user can select for display with showing people locations and or things as available data objects that are displayable on the display B. In it may be assumed that the user has selected each of people locations and things as the set of data objects to be displayed that the user has selected the spatial dimension as dominant and that the user selects only close relationships to be displayed via degree indicator for thing data objects only near relationships to be displayed for people data objects and only far relationships to be displayed for places data objects.

Accordingly the display B shows in this example four quadrants of locations corresponding to northeast NE northwest NW southeast SE and southwest SW relative to a point of origin corresponding to a location that the user inputs along with the query e.g. such as the user s current location a location the user is traveling to etc. . Overlaid on the display B is a street map so that the user can better interpret the locations of the data objects displayed therein. Because the user has indicated only close relationships for thing data objects be displayed and close data objects are displayed in the inner circle any spatially close thing data objects are shown in the user s inner circle of the display B. Further because the user has indicated only near relationships for people data objects be displayed and near data objects are displayed in the middle circle any spatially near people data objects are shown in the user s middle circle of the display B. Further because the user has indicated only far relationships for place data objects be displayed and far data objects are displayed in the outer circle any spatially far place data objects are shown in the user s outer circle of the display B.

Specifically in one close thing data object is shown in the inner circle of the display B one near people data object are shown in the display B and one far place data object are shown in the display B. Further each data object shown in the display B is represented with a different picture or artifact e.g. having different visual attributes such as size etc. that affect their prominence in the display B . From the display B shown in it will be appreciated that the user can navigate to different display criteria within the dominant spatial dimension or location map or can switch the dominant dimension to the social or temporal dimension.

Referring to zoom indicators C C and C indicate the current zoom of a display C for a set of data objects with the temporal dimension set as dominant. In particular as in the fill level of the pyramids of the zoom indicators C C and C indicate the manner in which the set of data objects are being filtered in the temporal spatial and social dimensions respectively.

Still referring to degree indicators C C and C indicate how different degrees of relationship in the display C for the temporal dimension are displayed such that temporally close data objects e.g. close in the past current or close in the future etc. are displayed in an inner circle of the display C temporally near data objects e.g. near in the past near in the future etc. are displayed in a middle circle of the display C and temporally far data objects e.g. far in the past far in the future etc. are displayed in an outer circle of the display C. Data object type indicators C C and C designate which types of data objects the user can select for display with showing people locations and or things as available data objects that are displayable on the display C. In it may be assumed that the user has selected people as the set of data objects to be displayed that the user has selected the temporal dimension as dominant and that the user selects only far relationships to be displayed for people data objects.

Accordingly the display C shows in this example four quadrants of time relative to a point of origin corresponding to a time that the user inputs along with the query e.g. such as the current time. . In an example the four quadrants can represent different portions of time for a given radial distance from the point of origin. For example the quadrants can represent seasons e.g. spring summer fall and winter whereas the distance from the point of origin or center of the display C can correspond to years. Alternatively the quadrants can represent days of the week e.g. Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday etc. whereas the distance from the point of origin can correspond to a number of weeks e.g. 1 2 3 etc. . Because the user has indicated only far relationships for people data objects be displayed and far data objects are displayed in the outer circle any temporally far people data objects is shown in the user s outer circle of the display C. In an example a people data object or socially networked contact of the user can have a far temporal relationship with the user if the contact has not communicated with the user in a long time e.g. the contact died many years ago etc. or is expected to be out of communication for a long time e.g. the contact is on a 5 year mission to mars etc. .

Specifically in one far people data object is shown in the outer circle of the display C. From the display C shown in it will be appreciated that the user can navigate to different display criteria within the dominant temporal dimension or time map or timeline or can switch the dominant dimension to the social or spatial dimension.

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary process for displaying a visual representation of data objects on a mobile communications device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In a device may receive inputs from the user for example a query with social temporal and spatial parameters to control the manner by which a given set of data objects e.g. which can also be indicated in the query are displayed to the user. As discussed above the inputs may be provided by another system for receiving inputs in which the system is associated with the mobile user s account. The inputs may also be provided directly by the user on the mobile device. Alternatively the inputs may be retrieved from the device s memory if previously received. In an example the inputs from the user may correspond to a query related to the visual representation of one or more data objects where the query includes spatial social and temporal parameters that affect which of the data objects are displayed in the visual representation. The query can further include a point of origin against which attributes of the data objects are compared against in determining whether to display the data objects and can further include an indication of which dimension is to be dominant e.g. to result in a visual representation as shown in or . In a first dimension may be displayed that provides a temporal representation of the inputs received e.g. as in where the temporal dimension is dominant . For example in the device can determine which data objects satisfy the temporal parameter of the query e.g. if the temporal parameter indicates that the user is interested in data objects within the next week from a current time data objects outside of this time frame are excluded from consideration etc. .

In a second dimension may be displayed that provides a spatial representation of the received inputs e.g. as in where the spatial dimension is dominant . For example in the device can determine which data objects satisfy the spatial parameter of the query e.g. if the spatial parameter indicates that the user is interested in data objects within two miles from his her current location data objects outside of this location range are excluded from the display etc. . In a further example the device need only consider the locations of the data objects during the time range associated with the temporal parameter e.g. if the spatial parameter corresponds to San Francisco and the temporal parameter corresponds to a current time then a data object of an event taking place in San Francisco a year in the future would not be displayed .

In a third dimension may be displayed that provides a social proximity representation of the received inputs e.g. as in where the social dimension is dominant . For example in the device can determine which data objects satisfy the social parameter of the query e.g. if the social parameter indicates that the user is interested in data objects of events that the user is interested in based on a user profile and or socially networked contacts in the user s contact list data objects not meeting these conditions are excluded from the display etc. . As will be appreciated once each dimension is displayed in through the resultant visual representation that displays one or more of the data objects can be displayed to the user e.g. as a location map an activity map etc. with artifacts shown in the display to represent the data objects . While and show that each type of dominant dimension is selected in sequential fashion it will be appreciated that the user could alternatively be satisfied with the first dimension set to dominance such that the user need not navigate to the other dominant dimensions as in and or .

In process the mobile communications device may receive an indication of that the user wishes to modify a selected dimension of the visual representation. For example if the user wishes to modify the range or degrees of displayable dimensions from the initial query the user selects the dimension to be modified in .

For example assume that a first soft key is assigned as a zoom in function for navigating through the selected or active axis and a second soft key is assigned as a zoom out function. By configuring the soft keys a user may zoom in and out which may result in updating the corresponding number of people in the displayed frame of reference. In this case the indication received in may correspond to a selection by the user to zoom in or zoom out of one of the spatial temporal or social dimensions. For example if the visual representation is in the form of a location map then when a user presses the zoom out soft key the field of view may be expanded to include a wider field of view such that more locations are shown and potentially more data objects are then displayed. Likewise if the zoom soft key is selected the field of view may zoom in to expand the current view which can exclude data objects that are no longer within the location range of the visual representation. After receiving the indication to modify one of the dimensions for the visual representation the visual representation is modified in e.g. to transition to another dominant dimension to modify the parameters for satisfying the parameters of the query etc. .

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary process for displaying a user interface on a mobile communications device in accordance with some of the methods disclosed herein. In a device may receive inputs from the user regarding data objects which in this embodiment correspond to planned events. As discussed above the inputs may be provided by another system for receiving inputs in which the system is associated with the mobile user s account. The inputs may also be provided directly by the user on the mobile device. Alternatively the inputs may be retrieved from the device s memory if previously received. In planned events are displayed as a function of the location of the events. As discussed above other data objects and representations may be indicated by a location. Alternatively the data objects may be indicated according to other qualities disclosed such as social proximity and temporal distance. For example the location representation can include indications on a location map. In various embodiments disclosed above a location representation may comprise events situated on a two dimensional map.

In navigation keys for two dimensional navigation may be configured. As disclosed above on a mobile communications device the up down left and right keys may be used for such navigation. In a first button may be configured for zooming in within the display e.g. which corresponds to narrowing the spatial dimension if the visual representation corresponds to a location map narrowing the social dimension if the visual representation corresponds to a social map etc. . In a second button is configured for zooming out within the display. By configuring the buttons for zooming a user may zoom in and out which may result in updating the corresponding number of data objects e.g. events in the displayed frame of reference. When a user presses the zoom out button the field of view may be expanded to include a wider field of view e.g. which corresponds to expanding the spatial dimension if the visual representation corresponds to a location map expanding the social dimension if the visual representation corresponds to a social map etc. . Likewise if the zoom in button is selected the field of view may zoom in to expand the current view. In new events may be generated by displaying a new event wizard to facilitate intuitive creation of new activities and events. Such a wizard may provide a mechanism to select people contacts places locations data or media entities things and a time value. In the wizard may prompt the user for inputs. Through various menus and prompts a user may for example select a person in a contact list select a location and select a time value that may indicate a now versus later choice.

Referring to illustrated are exemplary displays depicting an embodiment of the invention. In particular illustrates a variation to the user interface and display illustrated and described above with respect to where the visual representation correspond to a social map. Display depicts a settings function in which a user may select various filters for viewing entry and or editing. In this example the user has selected family as depicted by the highlighted area. Upon pressing an enter or OK button the display may be instantiated further depicting various contacts included in the family category. Furthermore radio buttons may indicate the current social proximity settings for the contacts listed in the family filter. The user may highlight a particular contact for example al depicted by the highlighted area. The user may modify the social proximity settings shown as close near and far in this example.

In other words in the embodiment of display shows the social parameter for the user s query whereby data objects having a family relationship to the user satisfy the social parameter of the query. The data objects which in this example correspond to socially networked contacts of the user are illustrated at the display . In particular the display shows the data objects satisfying the social parameter of the user s family members and further shows the degrees of social relation within the user s family e.g. close near and far in this example .

The user may select done when editing is complete whereupon display may be instantiated depicting contacts in the family filter. The display depicts the contacts in the family filter situated along concentric circles indicating their respective social proximity settings. The smallest circle includes contact greg who was associated with a far social proximity setting. The mid size circle includes contacts carl and heather who were associated with a near social proximity setting. The large circle includes contacts al and evan who were associated with a close social proximity setting. As can be seen the progressively larger circles indicate a closer social proximity setting while the progressively smaller circles indicate a farther social proximity setting. In one embodiment the user may configure the integrated zoom display to depict progressively larger circles to indicate a farther social proximity setting and configuring the progressively smaller circles to indicate a farther social proximity setting.

In other words the display corresponds to a social map whereby the social proximity of each of the user s family members is shown based on a distance to a center of the display at where the center of the display corresponds to the social point of origin for the query e.g. the social point of origin in this case corresponding to the user him herself or a particular user group .

Turning now to illustrated are exemplary displays depicting another embodiment of the invention. In particular illustrates a variation to the user interface and display illustrated and described above with respect to where the visual representation correspond to a social map that is based on the user s trust level in his her social contacts. Display depicts a settings function in which a user may select various filters for viewing entry and or editing. In this example the user has selected trusted as depicted by the highlighted area. Upon pressing an enter or OK button the display may be instantiated further depicting various contacts included in the trusted category. Furthermore radio buttons may indicate the current social proximity settings for the contacts listed in the trusted filter. The user may highlight a particular contact for example al depicted by the highlighted area. The user may modify the social proximity settings shown as close near and far in this example.

In other words in the embodiment of display shows the social parameter for the user s query whereby data objects e.g. contacts having a trusted relationship to the user satisfy the social parameter of the query. The data objects which in this example correspond to socially networked contacts of the user are illustrated at the display . In particular the display shows the data objects satisfying the social parameter of the user s trusted contacts and further shows the degrees of trust within the user s trusted contacts e.g. close near and far in this example .

The user may select done when editing is complete whereupon display may be instantiated depicting contacts in the trusted filter. The display depicts the contacts in the trusted filter situated along concentric circles indicating their respective social proximity settings. The smallest circle includes contact evan who was associated with a far social proximity setting. The mid size circle includes contacts al and greg who were associated with a near social proximity setting. The large circle includes contact carl who was associated with a close social proximity setting. Since contact heather was not assigned a trust setting an associated icon is not depicted in display as can be seen the progressively larger circles indicate a closer social proximity setting while the progressively smaller circles indicate a farther social proximity setting. In one embodiment the user may configure the integrated zoom display to depict progressively larger circles to indicate a farther social proximity setting and configuring the progressively smaller circles to indicate a farther social proximity setting.

In other words the display corresponds to a social map whereby the social proximity of each of the user s trusted members is shown based on a distance to a center of the display at where the center of the display corresponds to the social point of origin for the query e.g. the social point of origin in this case corresponding to the user him herself or a particular user group .

It can also be seen that data objects such as contacts may have multiple social proximity setting associated with various filters or categories. For example in contact al was associated with a near setting with respect to the trust filter and associated with a close setting with respect to the family filter. The ability to distinguish social proximity settings with respect to different contexts such as family and trust may enable a user to more closely approximate actual relationships and associated activities in the real world. For example a user may not trust a family member with respect to financial transactions and yet may prefer to closely associate with that family member with respect to social activities. The methods of the present disclosure may enable a user to depict such nuances in relationships and activities on a mobile device in order to provide a richer user experience that more closely resembles relationships and activities in the real world.

For example the query can specify a point of origin in spatial temporal and social dimensions. In a specific example the social point of origin may be an identity or subscriber profile for the user the spatial point of origin may be the user s location and the temporal point of origin may be a time or time range specified by the user. Alternatively one or more of the spatial temporal and social dimensions of the point of origin may be group specific instead of user specific such that data objects are compared against group properties instead of individual user properties. The spatial and temporal points of origin will typically be considered collectively such that the user s spatial point of origin will be considered at the time or within the time range of the temporal point of origin. For example assume that the user is curious as to which his her co workers will be attending work on Tuesday the social parameter of the query may be my co workers the temporal parameter of the query may be Tuesday and the spatial parameter of the query may be my work address .

Next degrees to which the social temporal and spatial parameters of the query are related to each of the set of data objects in social temporal and spatial dimensions respectively are determined . For example because the social parameter of the query related to my co workers which is a designated of socially networked contacts the user s communication device can contact the social networking server and obtain the user s list of co workers and can request the co worker s calendar for Tuesday. In this case assume the query is binary so that only contacts that perfectly match the query are displayed to the user. Thus if the co workers have no appointments on Tuesday the device may assume that the co workers will be in the office for example and these co workers can be displayed to the user whereas co workers scheduled to be away from the office are not displayed.

Next the communication device displays a visual representation of at least a portion of the set of data objects to the user based on whether the determined degrees of relation in the social dimension temporal dimension and spatial dimension satisfy the respective parameters of the query . In the example from above this means the co workers determined to be in the office on Tuesday are displayed to the user. The visual representation can be in the form of a social map an activity map and or a location map e.g. centered around the office in each case with only the co workers expected to be in the office on Tuesday being displayed.

While not shown in the user could shift the visual representation from to another day of the week e.g. along the temporal axis or dimension the user could narrow the visual representation from to show only certain co workers e.g. zooming in along the social axis or dimension the user could expand the visual representation from to show any co workers that will be in the office for that week e.g. zooming out along the temporal axis or dimension the user could expand the visual representation from to show any co workers that will be at any of multiple office locations on Tuesday e.g. zooming out along the spatial axis or dimension and so on.

While is described whereby the social parameter of the query specifies co workers of the user and the spatial parameter specifies an office in another example the social parameter could specify friends of the user and the spatial parameter could specify a particular city. Further while has been described whereby the data objects correspond to socially networked contacts it will be readily appreciated that other embodiments can direct the general teachings of to any type of data object such as events activities multimedia files etc.

While the attributes e.g. location time and or social relationship of data objects have been described above as static such that a given data object maintains the same social relationship to other data objects and a given data object s location at a particular time is the same it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to dynamically updating one or more of these data object attributes. For example if a user becomes closer friends to an acquaintance the user can transition his her social relationship to the data object representing the acquaintance to a closer social setting e.g. by dragging the artifact representing the acquaintance from a near or far position to a close position on the social map of for instance . Likewise the user may have been told in person that his her contact is not attending an event to which the contact RSVPed and can remove the contact from a temporal or spatial map indicating the contact s attendance at the event. When a data object attribute changes the data object can assume the privileges and or permissions of its new attribute e.g. notifications pertaining to the data object can achieve a higher or less prominence to the user etc. .

While above described embodiments of the invention have generally been directed to visually representing a set of data objects at a device operated by a particular user other embodiments are directed to the exchange of data objects between users. Accordingly are directed to such an exchange from the perspective of the sender of the data object s and is directed to a data object exchange from the perspective of a receiver or target of the data object s .

Referring to assume that a given user determines to send one or more data objects to at least one other user A. Accordingly the given user designates at least one target data object to which the data object s are to be sent as attachment s to a message A. In an example the each target data object will typically correspond to a socially networked contact of the user.

Next a process that is potentially iterative begins whereby the given user browses through its available data objects and selects a data object to send to the at least one target data object A. After selecting the data object the given user requests that the selected data object be added to a staging area that corresponds to the message being composed for the at least one target data object. In A the given user determines whether to add another data object to the staging area. If the given user determines to add another data object to the staging area in A the process returns to A and the given user browses for another data object. Otherwise if the given user determines not to add another data object to the staging area in A each data object added to the staging area is attached to a message A and the device operated by the given user then sends the message with any attached data objects to the at least one target data object A.

Referring to the given user next browses through picture data objects and in the given user indicates a selection of a picture data object corresponding to an artwork.jpg image file which is then added to the staging area in . The selection of the data object in and the adding of the selected data object to the staging area in may be performed in a similar manner as described above with respect to respectively except that the data object attached in to the staging area is not added as a target to the message but rather as an attachment to the message. Thus correspond to A through A of in this example.

Next referring to the given user next browses through places data objects and in the given user indicates a selection of a places data object corresponding to a forest location which is then added to the staging area in . The selection of the data object in and the adding of the selected data object to the staging area in may be performed in a similar manner as described above with respect to respectively. Thus correspond to another iteration of A through A of in this example.

At this point in the staging area includes target data object Rick and data object attachments artwork.jpg and forest. The given user can then attach the data object attachments to a message and send the message to the data object Rick by indicating a selection of the Send button illustrated in the staging area A and A. Alternatively the given user can first add a textual description of the attached data objects to facilitate a contextual understanding of why the data objects are being sent to Rick e.g. This picture of artwork is taken of the forest etc. .

Next illustrates an example of how a message including one or more data object attachments is received and viewed at the target data object. Referring to a device operated by the given user receives a message including a data object attachment at a device operated by the given user e.g. the social networking server a mobile device etc. .

Upon receiving the message in the device operated by the user displays a notification of the received message based at least in part upon attributes of the transmitting data object. For example if the user receiving the message is Rick and the sender of the message is Jane and Rick and Jane are married then the message of may be displayed as important even if Rick has no interest in the actual data object s contained therein. Thus the attributes of the sender can affect how prominently to display the message notification even if the message itself upon further review is not very important to the recipient.

Based on the message notification the target user of the message determines whether to view the message . If the target user determines not to view the message the process of terminates. Otherwise if the target user determines to view the message the data object attachments of the message are extracted and each extracted data object is displayed to the target user based at least in part upon the attributes of the extracted data objects.

For example if the sender of the message is unimportant the message notification of may initially not be prominently indicated to the target user in . However if the message itself is very important e.g. a distant friend sends an invitation to a party that the target user was desperate to attend etc. then the message is displayed more prominently upon extraction in .

In a further example an important message may affect how the message notification is displayed in as well such that an important message can cause a prominent notification even if the sender of the message is not important to the target user. Likewise an extracted data object that appears to be unimportant could be displayed as prominent by virtue of being sent from a very important contact of the user E.g. the CEO of the target user s company a love interest of the target user etc. . Thus in at least one example the message notification can be displayed with a prominence at least indicative of a level of importance of the sender with a potential for a more prominent display of the message notification if the message is especially important. Likewise the extracted data object s in are displayed with a prominence at least indicative of a level of importance of the extracted data object s with a potential for a more prominent display of the data object s if the sender of the message is especially important.

Referring to at assume that the presence server determines that user at client device is offline which means that user is not expected to be reachable over a set of communication services supported by client device such as text messaging voice calls e.g. circuit switched voice calls Skype or VoIP calls video calls and so on. For example client device may be turned off or in airplane mode resulting in the presence server associating client device as having an offline status at . The presence server notifies a target client device that client device is offline and possibly other target client devices as well and the target client device performs a processing function on at least one data object associated with user of client device based on client device s offline presence . As will be described below in more detail one processing function that can be performed at is excluding or merely de emphasizing user from a contacts page so that a user of the target client device is discouraged from initiating an interactive real time communication session with user . Of course if user is operating one or more other client devices that are registered as online by the presence server those other client device s for user could still be presented on the contacts page.

Referring to at some later point in time client device optionally determines a first set of communication services over which user of client device is currently expected to be available for interaction and client device optionally determines a second set of communication services over which user of client device is currently not expected to be available for interaction . The second set of communication services are not necessarily guaranteed to be unavailable although this is possible . Rather in at least one embodiment the second set of communication services can simply be less preferred or lower priority contact mechanisms for reaching user on client device as compared to the first set of communication services. Examples of scenarios that result in the optional determinations of and or are described below with respect to .

At assume that client device determines that its user is expected to be available to interact in a real time communication session via at least one communication service and thereby client device notifies the presence server of its availability. In an example the notification of can include an indication of the first and or second sets of communication services for which user of client device is expected to be available first set or unavailable second set or alternatively can simply correspond to client device logging onto the presence server to indicate its availability by implication without referencing specific communication services .

The presence server receives the notification and determines that user can be reached at client device via the at least one communication service and the presence server thereby transitions the presence status of user at client device from offline to online . The presence server notifies the target client device that client device is online and possibly other target client devices as well . In an example the notification of can further include indications of the first set of communication services for which user can be or prefers to be contacted on client device and or the second set of communication services for which user cannot be or prefers not to be contacted on client device . The target client device can then perform another processing function on the at least one data object associated with user of client device based on client device s online presence and potentially more specifically based on expected communication service specific availabilities on client device . As will be described below in more detail one processing function that can be performed at is excluding or merely de emphasizing the second set of communication services for user from a contacts page so that a user of the target client device is discouraged from initiating an interactive real time communication session with user over the second set of communication services while also including or even emphasizing the first set of communication services for user from the contacts page so that the user of the target client device is encouraged to initiate an interactive real time communication session with user over the first set of communication services.

Referring to user of client device is at a movie theater A watching a movie. Accordingly while user would most likely not want to be disturbed at all during the movie user is much more likely to interact with other users via text messaging as compared to any type of voice communication. For this reason the presence of user at client device is online with user expected to be available to interact to some degree via text messaging and not expected to be available to interact via voice communications. Thus once client device determines that its user is watching a movie at the movie theater A e.g. via user input via location tracking independent of user input based on user buying tickets to the movie and in combination with the location tracking indicating that user is actually at the movie theater A etc. client device can allocate text messaging to the first set of communication services of and client device can allocate voice messaging to the second set of communication services of .

Referring to user of client device is driving a car B. Accordingly user is much more likely to interact with other users via voice messaging as compared to any type of text communications which can actually be illegal in some localities while operating a motor vehicle . For this reason the presence of user at client device is online with user expected to be available to interact to some degree via voice messaging and not expected to be available to interact via text communications. Thus once client device determines that its user is driving the car B e.g. via user input via location tracking independent of user input etc. client device can allocate voice messaging to the first set of communication services of and client device can allocate text messaging to the second set of communication services of .

Referring to user of client device is flying in an airplane with client device set to airplane mode all wireless communication services are disabled . For this reason the presence of user at client device is offline as in of with user not expected to be available to interact via any type of wireless communications.

Referring to user of client device is at home sleeping or at least is expected to be sleeping . Accordingly while user would most likely not want to be disturbed at all while sleeping except for emergency communications. For this reason the presence of user at client device is online with user unavailable to interact via any type of non emergency communications. Thus once client device determines that its user is sleeping e.g. via user input location information that indicates client device is positioned in user s bedroom during normal sleep hours etc. client device can allocate both text and voice messaging to the second set of communication services of .

Referring to user of client device is located at work during normal work hours. Accordingly the presence of user at client device is online with user expected to be available to interact to some degree via either text or voice messaging. Thus client device can allocate both text and voice messaging to the first set of communication services of .

Referring to a query is received including a social parameter a temporal parameter and a spatial parameter relative to the user that are indicative of a desired processing function to be performed on a set of data objects that are representative of a group of target users e.g. such as target users described with respect to . In an example the query can be received at a client device e.g. a mobile communications device belonging to a user from which the query originates. In the embodiment of as discussed with respect to above embodiments the data objects can correspond to events activities socially networked contacts multimedia files and or any other type of information that is classifiable in spatial social and temporal terms and are further related to the group of target users. As an example which will be described in more detail below with respect to the relationship between the data objects and the group of target users can be that each data object represents a trigger for initiating a communication session with a given target user from the group of target users. In a more specific example one or more of the data objects can represent a trigger for initiating a communication session via a specific communication service e.g. text message voice call etc. with the given target user from the group of target users. The manner in which the query can specify the point of origin in spatial temporal and social dimensions at can be implemented as described above with respect to of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Next degrees to which the social temporal and spatial parameters of the query are related to each of the group of target users or the set of data objects that are representative of the group of target users in social temporal and spatial dimensions respectively are determined . The manner in which can be implemented is similar to of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to an expected availability of the one or more target users in the group of target users for interaction in a real time communication session is determined . For example if the process of is executed by the target client device from the determination at can be based upon presence information received for the one or more target users e.g. at at etc. . The expected availability determination at for each of the one or more target users can be device specific user specific and or service specific. In an example if a given user is only associated with a single client device that client device has an online presence and the given user is expected to be available on its available communication services e.g. such as target user in the expected availability is user specific because the user is only available on that device and device specific but is not service specific because the availability extends to each communication service supported by that client device. In another example if the given user is only associated with a single client device that client device has an online presence and the given user is expected to be available for text communications but not voice communications e.g. such as target user in the expected availability is user specific because the user is only available on that device and service specific but is not device specific because different services on the same device have different expected availabilities.

Next the communication device executing the process of performs a processing function on at least a portion of the set of data objects which represents the group of target users based on i whether the determined degrees of relation in the social dimension temporal dimension and spatial dimension satisfy respective parameters of the query from and ii the expected availability of the one or more target users in the group of target users from . As an example the processing function performed at can include the display function of of although this is not necessarily the case. The processing function performed at can also include display related functions such as shifting data objects representing contact mechanisms that are expected to be available for communicating with certain contacts to a more prominent position in a display and likewise shifting data objects representing contact mechanisms that are not expected to be available for communicating with certain contacts to a less prominent position in the display or simply removing them altogether. Thus the expected availability of the group of target users can be used in conjunction with e.g. as an add on or enhancement to the spatial temporal and or social proximities of the set of data objects associated with the group of target users to the specified point of origin for the query. For example target user from may closely match the query from but client device is on an airplane and is thereby unavailable offline presence so any data objects representing target user and or client device may be de emphasized in prominence on the display function or other processing function .

While the attributes e.g. location time and or social relationship of data objects have been described above as static such that a given data object maintains the same social relationship to other data objects and a given data object s location at a particular time is the same it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to dynamically updating one or more of these data object attributes. In particular the presence status of the group of target users as well as the expected availability of the group of target users to engage in specific communication services can change frequently. When a data object attribute such as presence changes the data object can assume the privileges and or permissions of its new attribute e.g. notifications pertaining to the data object can achieve a higher or less prominence to the user etc. . In the case of presence for example when client device re connects to the presence server after the airplane flight for target user is over one or more data objects representing contact mechanisms for target user at client device can be restored to their more typical level of prominence in the display or in other processing functions that are internal to the communications device .

Referring to certain of the data objects but not all necessarily are associated with the target users . Because target user operating client device is expected to be available for text communications but not voice communications e.g. due to the target user attending the movie as shown in a data object representing a text function to client device is positioned in the prominent outer circle of the display in while a data object representing a voice function to client device is positioned in the less prominent inner circle of the display in . Because target user operating client device is expected to be available for voice communications but not text communications e.g. due to the target user driving the car B as shown in a data object representing a voice function to client device is positioned in the prominent outer circle of the display in while a data object representing a text function to client device is positioned in the less prominent inner circle of the display in . Because target user operating client device is offline e.g. due to the target user being on an airplane flight as shown in data objects are excluded from the display by a display exclusion processing function based on the offline presence of target user at client device . Alternatively while not shown in data objects for target user at client device could be added in non prominent positions of the display so a voice or text message could still be left for target user at client device for later retrieval.

Referring to because target user operating client device is online but is expected to be unavailable for any communications e.g. due to the target user asleep as shown in data objects and representing voice and text functions respectively to client device are positioned in the less prominent inner circle of the display in . Thus even though target user is asleep or at least is expected to be sleep or trying to go to sleep a user could still try to initiate contact with target user at client device e.g. if an urgent or emergency situation is occurring or some other news is deemed sufficient for disturbing target device despite the lower priority placement of its contact mechanism data objects and . Because target user operating client device is expected to be available for both text and voice communications e.g. due to the target user being at work as shown in data objects and representing text and voice functions respectively to client device are both positioned in the prominent outer circle of the display in .

While illustrates an embodiment that focuses on text and calling functions for data objects associated with the group of target users other embodiments can use presence information in combination with social temporal and or spatial proximity to the specified point of origin from the query to perform processing functions that are display related or are not display related and can involve functions other than text and calling functions e.g. a user may wish to load images of a target user if that target user has an online presence to determine if the user wants to contact that target user before initiating contact etc. .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

