---

title: Partial vacuum operation of arc discharge for controlled heating
abstract: An electrical discharge, suitable for heating optical fibers for processing, is made in a controlled partial vacuum, such that saturation of available ionizable gas molecules is reached. The workpiece temperature is thereby made to be a stably controlled function of the absolute air pressure and is insensitive to other conditions. A system and method accomplishing the foregoing are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554420&OS=09554420&RS=09554420
owner: 3SAE Technologies, Inc.
number: 09554420
owner_city: Franklin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130408
---
The present application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 621 274 filed Apr. 6 2012 entitled PARTIAL VACUUM OPERATION OF ARC DISCHARGE FOR CONTROLLED HEATING the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present inventive concepts relate to the field of systems and methods for optical fiber processing and more particularly to the field of systems and methods using heat for optical fiber processing.

In the manufacture of devices using optical fibers it is commonly required to heat the fibers in a controlled manner so that they may be spliced coupled shaped annealed tapered diffused expanded flame polished cleaned or stripped of coatings. An electrical discharge is commonly employed for this purpose. This electrical discharge is known in the industry as an arc. However according to some sources a discharge of this current level is not a true arc but a glow discharge that generates a hot plasma.

The arc is normally formed between the sharply pointed tips of a pair of electrodes typically made of tungsten and spaced 1 mm to 10 mm apart. Larger electrode spacing is required for splicing multiple fibers at once fiber ribbons and for larger diameter fibers. The optical design of some splicers may also require the electrode spacing gap to be larger in order to prevent the electrodes from physically occluding the optical path.

The voltage applied to the electrodes may be DC typically in conjunction with smaller electrode spacing or AC which allows a larger spacing between the electrode tips up to 10 mm or more . The voltage required to initiate the discharge is determined by Paschen s Law which relates the breakdown voltage of a gap between electrodes to a complex and non linear function of the gas present in the gap typically ordinary air pressure humidity electrode shape electrode material and gap distance. Many of the parameters required to apply Paschen s Law to this system are not known so little quantitative theoretical analysis of splicer arcs has been done. Typically the initiating voltage is determined experimentally to be in the range of 5 kV to 30 kV.

Once the arc has been initiated sustained ionization of the plasma in the discharge requires a lower voltage than initially applied. The impedance ratio of applied voltage to current of the plasma as a circuit element is difficult to predict. Splicer arcs are even suspected to exhibit negative incremental impedance at some frequencies and current levels. These characteristics make constant voltage operation of a splicer arc very difficult to achieve. Therefore most such systems are controlled to provide a constant average current. This correlates in a reasonably predictable way with the observed power delivered to the discharge and the resulting temperature of the fibers.

However the accuracy precision and repeatability of such control methods is subject to many uncontrolled factors. Air pressure humidity air temperature electrode spacing electrode cleanliness and electrode geometry produce unacceptably large changes in the temperature reached at the working surface of the fibers. The electrodes oxidize away during use which expands the gap between the electrodes blunts their points and contaminates their emitting surfaces.

As a result various procedures have been developed to renormalize the relationship between the setpoint arc current and the resulting fiber temperature. These procedures normally consist of an arc check wherein the arc discharge is operated at various power levels and the resulting distortion or incandescence of the fibers is observed by a camera to provide information used to recalibrate the system for atmospheric and electrode conditions. These procedures are unsatisfactory in many respects as they consume time electrode life and optical fiber while providing only a temporary and partial solution to the problem of changes in the fiber temperature.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is an optical fiber processing system. The system comprises at least two electrodes at least one fiber holder configured to hold an optical fiber an airtight enclosure providing a partial vacuum within which the at least two electrodes are disposed such that a portion of the optical fiber is maintained between the at least two electrodes within the airtight enclosure and an arc discharging unit configured to selectively control a drive current supplied to the at least two electrodes to control a discharge region generated by and between the at least two electrodes to heat the portion of the optical fiber.

In various embodiments the system can further comprise a pressure sensor configured to sense a pressure within the airtight enclosure.

In various embodiments the system can further comprise a vacuum generating venture configured to generate the partial vacuum within the airtight enclosure.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a method of processing an optical fiber. The method comprises providing at least two electrodes at least two fiber holders configured to hold an optical fiber an airtight enclosure providing a partial vacuum within which the at least two electrodes are disposed such that a portion of the optical fiber is maintained between the at least two electrodes within the airtight enclosure and using an arc discharging unit selectively controlling a drive current supplied to the at least two electrodes to control a discharge region generated by and between the at least two electrodes to heat the portion of the optical fiber.

In various embodiments the method can further comprise sensing a pressure within the airtight enclosure.

In various embodiments the method can further comprise generating a vacuum within the airtight enclosure.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a workpiece processing system. The system comprises at least two electrodes a workpiece holder configured to hold a workpiece an airtight enclosure providing a partial vacuum within which the at least two electrodes are disposed such that a portion of the workpiece is maintained between the at least two electrodes within the airtight enclosure an arc discharging unit configured to selectively control a drive current supplied to the at least two electrodes to control a discharge region generated by and between the at least two electrodes to heat the portion of the workpiece a pressure sensor configured to sense a pressure within the airtight enclosure and a vacuum generating venture configured to generate the partial vacuum within the airtight enclosure.

Various exemplary embodiments will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some exemplary embodiments are shown. The present inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used to describe an element and or feature s relationship to another element s and or feature s as for example illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use and or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below and or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. The device may be otherwise oriented e.g. rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

In accordance with the inventive concept provided are a system and method where an arc is formed between two or more electrodes in at least a partial vacuum where control of the vacuum provides a heating limit irrespective of other parameters that would otherwise affect the heating temperature.

A glow discharge arc comprises a flow of electric current through ionized air. The current is primarily transmitted by ions of nitrogen and oxygen and to a much lesser extent other atmospheric gasses. As the current provided to the discharge increases an increased proportion of the air molecules along the path between the electrode tips become ionized increasing the energy density and the resulting fiber temperature. Eventually the molecules available along the most direct path all become ionized and the impedance of the discharge becomes very low. Further increases in drive current cannot increase the energy density directly in the gap between the electrodes and so the volume of the discharge expands instead. However this normally occurs only at energy densities which produce temperatures much higher than is useful for processing most optical fibers. Therefore all prior art arc discharges for fiber processing are operated well below this saturation point.

When the ambient atmospheric pressure in which the discharge occurs is reduced fewer air molecules per volume are available to be ionized and serve as charge carriers. Therefore the maximum energy density and resulting maximum temperature are lower and are reached at a lower level of drive current. By controlling the air pressure in the arc region an upper limit to the fiber temperature is established. The arc drive electronics need only provide sufficient current to saturate the available ionizable air molecules at the chosen pressure. The fiber temperature becomes almost completely insensitive to the condition spacing and geometry of the electrodes as well as to any deficiencies in the accuracy of the current control of the arc drive electronics. The discharge current provided that it is greater than the saturation current of the gap between the electrodes controls only the volume of the arc discharge not its temperature. Most fiber processing operations such as splicing are far more sensitive to temperature than to the area of the heated surface so this produces more stable results than prior art methods. The arc current may still be varied as required to produce a larger or smaller discharge volume as may suit the requirements of the application for which the arc is being used e.g. splicing tapering stripping lensing and so on.

In a test of a prototype device embodying the invention the arc discharge was adjusted to the full drive current capability of the device. At standard pressure this current results in temperatures and energy densities sufficient to rapidly boil silica fiber to vapor 2230 C. even for large fibers of 1 mm diameter. The air pressure was adjusted to approximately 0.1 atm. A 10 m silica fiber was placed in the discharge. It was found that the resulting temperature estimated at 1200 C. was just sufficient to allow the fiber to be inelastically deformed by an applied force over several seconds. Reduction of the applied current by approximately 80 greatly reduced the area of the discharge but the deformation rate of the fiber within the discharge region was unchanged in accordance with the theory underlying the invention.

In a device embodying the invention the temperature applied to the fibers is almost purely a function of the absolute pressure within the enclosure. This pressure can be sensed and controlled by well known means within very tight limits. This eliminates the need for arc check functions and provides a highly stable repeatable temperature for the process. Furthermore little or no change to the pressure level is required for fibers of differing diameters. Since the heat zone ionization potential is entirely saturated the desired energy density and temperature will remain substantially constant with the addition of a larger or smaller mass of fiber having little effect. Control of the pressure can be maintained with much greater precision accuracy and repeatability than control of current and or voltage of the complex waveforms of a typical arc discharging unit.

To implement the invention the working area of the arc discharge and fibers or other workpiece is enclosed in a structure that can be evacuated to the required reduced pressure while still allowing access for the fiber fibers or other workpiece as well as any accompanying positioners fixtures cameras optics illumination and so forth. A variety of configurations are possible and will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

In one configuration an entire splicer or other device could be disposed within the vacuum chamber. In another possible configuration only the immediate volume surrounding the arc discharge may be enclosed e.g. with bellows or other devices allowing positioners to move the fibers and windows provided for an optical system if required. In yet another configuration the positioners and optics may be enclosed with the electronic control mechanisms located outside the enclosure. A wide variety of devices to allow pressure tight access for wires optical paths and mechanical mechanisms are known and may be used to enable any of a variety of particular configurations. All of these possible configurations embody the present invention and may be selected according to other requirements of the use to which the invention may be put.

The enclosure for the arc discharge region of whatever configuration must have provisions for maintaining a stable absolute pressure at the required level. The air may be evacuated by a pump or venturi device as examples. A pressure sensor would be provided to detect the pressure level and control the pump or air flow to the venture as required.

The absolute pressures of interest are typically in the range of 0.05 atm to 0.9 atm 0.7 13.2 psi absolute 38 684 torr . This is well above the pressures at which X ray production from the electrical discharge would become a danger or at which standard lubricants and materials for mechanical motion cease to function well.

It will be seen that it is also possible to provide for replacing the remaining air within the enclosure with other gases. For example an inert gas such as argon may be used. This would have the benefit of displacing any humidity present in the air as well as preventing oxidation of the tungsten electrodes. Other gases may also be used for various desired effects while remaining within the scope of the invention.

The number of electrodes generating the arc discharge is not limited to two. Three or more electrodes driven by appropriate multi phase drive circuits can be employed as in the 3sae Technologies Inc. Ring of Fire technology. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 670 065 U.S. Pat. No. 7 922 400 U.S. Pat. No. 7 985 029 and US Pat. Pub. 2011 0277511 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

When the arc discharge is operated at the saturation point it is no longer necessary to provide sharply pointed electrodes. The electrodes can be made with flat or spherical ends. Alternatively the electrodes can be made T shaped and have arms extended along axes parallel with the axis of the fiber. The discharge region can thereby be shaped to provide a heating zone that extends along the axis of the fiber for several millimeters. If three electrodes are used the discharge forms a tunnel in the form of an open ended triangular prism heating the fiber evenly around its circumference and for a substantial length along its axis. This provides substantial advantages in fiber tapering and diffusion operations. It will be realized by one skilled in the art that a wide variety of interchangeable electrode configurations can be provided to shape the heating zone according to differing operational requirements. All of these possibilities are enabled by the method of arc discharge in partial vacuum and are embodiments of the present invention.

Several additional advantages are also obtained by operation of the arc in partial vacuum. By increasing the drive current beyond the saturation point the discharge can be expanded to cover a much wider area of the fiber than is possible with prior art arc discharge devices or even with filament heaters. This is advantageous in splicing many fibers as well as for tapering dopant diffusion annealing and other operations. Since atmospheric pressure is directly controlled it is no longer an uncontrolled variable affecting delivered temperature. Furthermore sensitivity to humidity and air temperature is reduced to the point of negligibility. Also air currents from convection within the enclosure are minimized and air currents from external drafts or wind are eliminated entirely.

Another advantage is that the decreased partial pressure of oxygen greatly reduces oxidation of the electrodes as they become heated. This increases electrode life and reduces deposition of tungsten oxide on the fibers or other workpieces.

Yet another advantage is that the arc discharge becomes much easier to initiate. At standard atmospheric pressure special electronic techniques known in the art must be used to ensure that the relatively high initiating voltage is reached to start the arc. This initial high voltage requires heavy insulation of the output transformers and output wiring of the arc discharge electronics. Paschen s Law states that the initiating voltage is proportional to absolute air pressure as V P ln P . Therefore reduced pressure for pressures 0.01 atm

Still another advantage is that any gases or fumes produced by the heating operation are contained within the vacuum enclosure and exhausted by the vacuum pump or venture if provided. They may be readily vented or captured as required by safety and environmental regulations and requirements.

Although the uses of the arc discharge in partial vacuum are described herein as they apply to the processing of optical fibers it will be recognized that the present invention has much broader applicability. In many cases wherein a glow discharge is used to as a heat source this same method or an equivalent will provide the same or similar benefits.

A variation of the process is to operate the arc discharge at elevated pressure above 1 atm absolute . This foregoes many of the advantages of the normal use of the invention but does allow for higher energy density and temperature to be reached if required. This increased temperature is suitable for example for performing splicing or other operations on sapphire Al2O3 fibers and optical waveguides.

By operating the arc discharge at elevated pressure but at current levels below the threshold of ion saturation the arc discharge can be made at lower temperatures but within a very compact and narrow volume. This method can be used when it is desired to heat only a very small region of a fiber or other workpiece. An application of this modified process would be to heat small regions of a fiber at regularly spaced intervals along its axis in order to create an optical grating.

An apparatus suitable for implementation of the reduced pressure method can be readily adapted to be operated in an elevated pressure mode as well.

The electrodes can be constructed so that they may readily be interchanged with electrodes of different shapes as desired. In addition an arc discharging unit has provisions for driving a third electrode not shown which may be readily added for Ring of Fire three phase operation discussed above.

The various positioning mechanisms optics and electronics of the preferred embodiment are not dissimilar to others well known in the art. The present invention is embodied in the airtight enclosure and provisions for maintaining a controlled partial vacuum in the area where the arc discharge occurs. The operator an engineer providing programmed processes for the operator or an automated feature realized by the control unit selects according to empirically determined data an absolute pressure corresponding to the desired temperature to be applied to the fibers or other workpiece. The arc discharging unit need only be controlled so as to provide a current sufficient to saturate the ionization of the arc discharge region for the installed electrode configuration. If desired the current can be further increased to expand the heating zone. Because of the benefits of the present invention the temperature applied to the workpiece can be expected to remain constant over time electrode condition changes and on other units of the machine embodying the invention.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

