---

title: Message control system
abstract: Embodiments are presented for controlling usage of a communications device, whereby for a given number of messages generated from the device the operator (e.g., a child, person, etc.) has to successfully answer a question before a further batch of messages can be sent. The number of messages that can be sent before a question is to be answered can be configured by a parent. Further, a modifiable data store can be utilized to store questions, from which questions for presentation on the communication device can be sourced. The questions can relate to subject matter the child is studying at school, a standardized test, trivia, provided by a third party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288655&OS=09288655&RS=09288655
owner: 
number: 09288655
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 641 272 filed on May 1 2012 entitled Message Control System . The entirety of the above captioned application is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject specification relates generally to controlling operation of a communications device based upon successful completion of one or more tests to facilitate granting further use of the communications device.

With the prevalence of communication devices e.g. mobile phones cellular phones tablet PCs laptops and the like teenagers adolescents and children are often generating and sending a large number of messages e.g. text messages from their communication devices to friends etc. However the service plan for the communication device e.g. service plan for a mobile phone is typically paid for by the child s parent. Hence disagreement can arise between the parent s and the child regarding the amount of messages sent for a given billing period of a service plan. The parent is concerned by the volume of messages being generated by the child and the time spent in message exchange while the child considers the number of messages to be normal in view of maintaining communication with their friends peers family etc. Similarly operation of the communication device in terms of minutes spent talking can also be of concern to a parent.

Furthermore the academic achievement of the child is also of concern to the parent with the parent often looking for any means to provide the child with a stimulus and or incentive for learning to enhance the child s academic achievement.

Various technologies pertaining to controlling operation of messaging or other pursuit are described herein. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a system is presented wherein the system can include a memory including at least one computer executable instruction and a processor configured to execute the at least one computer executable instruction wherein in response to execution by the processor the at least one computer executable instruction implements various components. The components can comprise a messaging component configured to transmit at least one message from the system to a remote device further configured to tally a number of messages transmitted from the system to a remote device and determine whether the number of messages transmitted equals a maximum number of messages to be transmitted. In response to determining the number of messages transmitted equals the maximum number of messages to be transmitted the messaging component can deactivate an ability to transmit a subsequent message to the remote device.

In a further exemplary non limiting embodiment that comprises controlling operation of a device is presented. The method comprising receiving by a system including a processor a setting for a maximum number of messages M to be sent further transmitting by the system a number of messages N to a remote device and counting by the system the number of messages N sent. Based on the number of message N sent a determination can be made by the system whether N M. Further in response to determining N M sending of a subsequent message can be prevented.

A further exemplary non limiting embodiment comprises a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a computing system including a processor to perform operations comprising setting a maximum number of messages that can be sent counting a number of messages sent and determining whether the number of messages sent equals the maximum number of messages that can be sent. In response to determining the number of messages sent being equal to the maximum number of messages that can be sent an operation can further be implemented to deactivate an ability to send a subsequent message. Further operations can include presenting a question and a plurality of answers pertaining to the question receiving an input answer in the plurality of answers and determining whether the input answer is a correct answer to the question. In response to determining the input answer is the correct answer an operation can further be implemented activating the ability to send a subsequent message.

The various embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It can be evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments.

The various exemplary non limiting embodiments relate in part to controlling usage of a device based upon an entity e.g. a child student teenager adolescent youth adult person etc. hereinafter referred to as a child successfully completing one or more questions. It is to be appreciated that while the term question is utilized herein the term is not limited simply to the operation of question answer but pertains to any suitable exercise test task challenge activity and the like which is to be completed to facilitate the operation of activation deactivation of a message component. A message component can be in operation on the device e.g. a communications device such as a mobile device such that for every N messages sent from the device the device switches to a locked state until the child can successfully answer a question presented on the device where N is a positive integer greater than 0. For example the message component can be configured such that after 10 text messages have been sent from the device a question is to be presented on the device. The child then has to pass the test e.g. correctly answer the question to unlock the messaging component on the device and have the ability to send further text messages e.g. continuing with the example above the ability to send another 10 text messages is re enabled. The process of text message generation and test presentation continues ad infinitum unless service is terminated device deactivated e.g. telephone service terminated etc. For example the child can send another 10 messages and after the 10message is sent another question can be presented to be successfully completed which upon successful completion another 10 messages are available to be sent etc.

It is to be appreciated that while the above is described with regard to generation and transmission of messages the various embodiments presented herein can be applied to any other suitable application such as controlling the availability of phone calls duration number etc. playing games e.g. time spent playing video games time spent playing video games on the device etc. watching television etc. as further described herein.

It is further to be appreciated that while the example scenarios presented herein relate to a parent and a child the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and are applicable to any scenario where an entity e.g. a parent places a requirement for a test to be successfully completed before ability to operate a device e.g. a communications device is granted e.g. to a child . In another non limiting exemplary embodiment the device can be owned and operated by the same entity e.g. an adult who can elect to opt into the message control application as a means for them to be presented with a question s as part of their own requirements such as study revision practice e.g. a student studying for any of the SAT MCAT LSAT etc. entertainment etc.

Furthermore it is to be appreciated that the various embodiments presented herein are not limited to a device such as a communication device e.g. a mobile phone but are applicable to any component device etc. where the concept of controlling operation of the component device etc. based on successful completion of a test or other suitable exercise operation can be utilized.

It is to be appreciated that while not shown messaging component can comprise or be associated with e.g. communicatively coupled various components devices applications etc. as required to facilitate messaging by device where such components devices applications etc. can comprise antenna transmitter receiver signal modulation demodulation signal encoding decoding etc. as is known in the art for generation and conveyance of messages across communicatively coupled devices.

As well as being in communication with any of devices and or device can also be in communication with at least one source of telecommunication services being utilized by device . For example device can be in communication with telecommunication network wherein telecommunication network comprises the necessary components e.g. servers communication towers etc. to facilitate operation of device e.g. communication of device with other devices and . In an aspect telecommunication network can include one or more components required to for example facilitate billing of services utilized by device one or more components devices applications etc. to facilitate operation of device etc.

In an exemplary non limiting embodiment telecommunication network can comprise message controller component which can be utilized for example in conjunction with messaging component to control operation of device with regard to generation and availability of messages at device .

During operation of device e.g. by an entity such as a child not shown message counter component can maintain a tally of how many messages have been generated with the device . In an aspect each count in the tally can be forwarded to the message controller component . In another aspect an indication can be forwarded from the message count component to message controller component for example in the event of a defined configuration of counts has been reached or is about to be reached etc.

Further a test generator component can be associated with the telecommunication network and can be utilized to generate at least one question test and the like. Test generator component can be utilized in conjunction with data store which can comprise a plurality of questions and associated answers e.g. as necessary as shown in for presentation on device . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment data store can be populated by any suitable means. For example data store can comprise of a database containing questions from any suitable source such as the child operator of device is in 8grade and thus questions suitable for an 8grade student are stored in data store for presentation on device . In another example questions may be presented from a database relating to exams assessing a particular level of minimum education high school proficiency for example to comply with the No Child Left Behind NCLB Act the Regents Examination of New York Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test FCAT Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment Test MCAT and similar federal state or locally mandated examinations. In another example the child is studying to go to college and hence questions pertaining to a standardized test e.g. SAT ACT etc. can be drawn from data store wherein the questions may be provided by an organization associated with the standardized test e.g. in the case of the SAT the College Board.

It is to be appreciated that while the various embodiments and aspects presented herein have been focused on a child operating device the various embodiments can be directed towards any person operating device and generating a message s therefrom. For example the person can be a student and is looking to apply to an establishment of higher learning such as medical school and hence data store can comprise questions relating to the Medical College Admission Test MCAT wherein the student may be the person that pays for their phone plan as opposed to their parent . In another embodiment the device can be operated by a person who simply likes to test their general knowledge and thus questions retrieved from data store can be trivia questions or any question in data store can be retrieved for presentation to the person wherein the person may be the entity that pays for their phone plan as opposed to their parent .

Alternatively a person can be studying for an intelligent quotient test e.g. MENSA where not only can the question s be presented in a textual manner the ability of the test display component e.g. a smartphone display computer display etc. to render graphics can be utilized to present questions which are visual in nature such as symbolic questions often found in a test such as administered by MENSA.

It is to be appreciated that the various embodiments presented herein in part relate to the concept of presentation of a question etc. that has to be correctly fulfilled to facilitate further operation such as messaging hence the question etc. is not limited to being entirely textual in nature but rather can be any of textual visual tactile audible e.g. audibly presented audibly focused such as a music fragment or combination thereof etc. as supported by components comprising a device such as display touchscreen audio speakers. Further the response to the question can be entered by any suitable means such as scrolling to the chosen answer by means of a mouse keypad etc. as well as utilizing the functionality of a touchscreen display audible input such as a microphone coupled to a voice user interface not shown tactile input and the like.

In another embodiment generation of test questions can be conducted in conjunction with a child s schoolwork whereby a teacher or other suitable entity can provide questions to data store which can pertain to the child s schoolwork. To facilitate population of data store with questions the teacher can be required to perform any suitable authentication and or authorization operation to gain access to data store whereupon successful compliance with the authentication authorization operation teacher can perform any necessary operations e.g. submit new questions delete old questions etc.

In a further embodiment questions for presentation on test display component can be sourced from a third party e.g. third party . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment such third party can be an entertainment company wherein questions can be generated by the entertainment company pertaining to a band singer concert show film book publication sports team sports individual and the like which the entertainment company wants to bring to the attention of a given audience e.g. wants to advertise. Alternatively third party can be a company having a product they wish to advertise market such as clothing sporting goods travel computing etc. In such a manner of operation it is possible that the company operating the telecommunications network e.g. VERIZON AT T CINGULAR etc. can require the third party e.g. the entertainment company advertiser marketer etc. fulfill an obligation such as make a payment to facilitate provision of the question s thereby acting as a revenue generation stream for the entity operating the telecommunications network .

In another aspect owing to the global nature of the telecommunications industry in contemporary society data store can comprise of questions which are multi lingual in nature and thus the various embodiments presented herein can be applicable to any language or region of operation of device .

As each question or batch of questions is generated by the test generator and forwarded to the messaging component the question can be presented to the operator e.g. child person student etc. of device . Test display component can be utilized to present a question . For example turning briefly to a sequence S of message control screens and are illustrated as being presented on test display component . Screen can indicate at tally indicator e.g. per tally stored at message count component that 0 out of the 10 available messages have been sent and messaging is available . As the sequence of messages increases the tally increases such that on screen 9 of the available 10 messages have been sent as indicated by tally indicator . A warning message can be presented indicating that the number of messages sent is approaching a message limit e.g. as set via count set component . Upon transmission of a next message screen can be displayed where the number of messages that have been sent is equal to the maximum number as indicated by tally indicator . Further a message can be presented to the user that the number of maximum messages available has been reached the ability to transmit message s from the device has been deactivated and a question e.g. question forwarded from data store is about to be presented as indicated by arrow Q.

As described further below an emergency message comprising the message can be sent while the ability to send a message from the device can be currently de activated e.g. while waiting for a correct answer to be submitted to a displayed question as indicated by arrow E . To facilitate initiation of transmission of an emergency message emergency message button can be presented on test display where in the event of test display component being a touchscreen selection of the emergency message button can be detected whereby a message generation screen can be presented for generation and transmission of the emergency message . It is to be appreciated that initiation of an emergency message is not limited to activation of a virtual emergency message button on test display but can be initiated by any suitable means such selection of a specific key key combination on a keyboard associated with the device an audible command for a voice recognition system operating on device such as send emergency message and the like.

As shown in after successful answer selection arrow A test display component can display message indicating that the question was correctly answered and the ability to send message s is being reactivated where the screen sequence advances via arrow T to screen where the tally indicator can be reset to 0 of 10 messages available and a message can be presented indicating that messaging is available.

A consideration for operation of the system presented in is the configuration of how many messages can be allowed to be sent before a test is to be performed. A further consideration pertains to what questions are to be presented in the test. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment device used by the child is part of a family plan a family plan of cellular phones such that the parent s phone and the child s phone are administered and paid for by the parent. Hence the parent as well as taking an interest in the education of the child the parent can also be able to manage operation of device utilized by the child. To facilitate education of the child and operation of device a configuration component can be utilized by the parent. Configuration component can be remotely located from device or can be co located with device . For example the configuration component can operate on any suitable device e.g. a computer cellular phone laptop device etc. which can be in communication with telecommunication network e.g. via cellular communication via a local area network LAN via a wide area network WAN internet etc or further can be in direct communication with components comprising device such as messaging component for example. In an alternative embodiment configuration component can be located on device and can be used to configure operation of the various embodiments presented herein regarding control of messaging on device . Configuration component can include a count set component wherein the count set component can be utilized to configure how many messages are allowed to be generated before a test question is to be answered as well as how many questions are to be answered before the ability to send messages from device is re activated for example two questions are to be correctly answered before messaging via messaging component is re activated. Configuration component can further comprise a test set component which can be utilized to select a group of questions e.g. questions which are to be presented on device e.g. via test display component . As described above the questions which comprise data store can be of any nature. Hence a listing i.e. a general listing a particular listing etc. of all the questions in data store can be presented via test set component from which a particular set of questions e.g. SAT based questions can be selected for presentation on display via test display component .

Turning to an exemplary non limiting depiction of a possible configuration screen A associated with configuration component is shown. As depicted count set component screen A associated with count set component is shown with a number of value settings which can be selected to enable control of how many messages are allowed to be generated before the message control system e.g. messaging component is de activated and a question is presented e.g. on test display component . In an example configuration count set component screen A presents a plurality of fixed message numbers and which can be of a simple click to select operation such as radio buttons. Alternatively if a different number of messages are to be counted compared with the values and the value can be entered in . Any suitable means for selection entry of messages can be utilized. Further extending the example display test set component screen A associated with test set component can comprise of any question groupings e.g. questions stored in data store where in this example four categories English Mathematics History and or Science can be selected. It is to be appreciated that where a plurality of question groupings subjects are available more than one group can be selected if so desired. Further a sequence of presentation can be established such as upon completion of one question group a subsequent group of questions are presented e.g. when all the mathematics related questions have been presented science questions are then presented. Hence in such operation a child can work their way through a series of questions of one level of perceived difficulty to be followed by harder questions either on the same subject or a disparate subject. Any suitable means for question selection can be utilized as known in the art where in the basic rendering illustrated in a slider control can be utilized to select questions based on difficulty from Easiest to Hardest where such operation of slider control facilitates different question s and or question categories groupings being presented e.g. scrolled through on test set screen A whereupon when a particular question question group of a perceived difficulty is displayed it can be selected.

A timing set component screen A associated with timing set component can be utilized to configure when the message control system e.g. messaging component is operable. Upon selection of the message control system is active all day. Alternatively upon entering values into window s the operation of the message control system can be limited to particular hours of the day e.g. school hours. While not shown the timing set component screen A can present any required variables e.g. particular weekday s day s of the weekend weekend 12 hr clock 24 hr clock etc. to facilitate selection of operation of the message control system.

A reward configuration screen A can also be presented enabling one or more rewards e.g. any of rewards to be selected and made available to the operator e.g. the child of device upon satisfying a particular criteria e.g. successfully answering a question a number of questions a sequence of questions etc. per Answer configuration numerical approach percentage approach as explained further below. As further explained below feedback of the number of bypass messages can be presented in Bypassed window as further explained below. In an embodiment an option can be provided that while there can be a requirement to answer X number of questions other incentives can be provided. For example a requirement can be configured that 5 questions are to be correctly answered before messaging can be reactivated a incentive of answer the first X questions correctly in T seconds can be configured. Hence in an example if the first 3 of the 5 questions are answered within a given timeframe e.g. 30 seconds the remaining 2 questions do not need to be answered and messaging can be reactivated.

The various entries selections settings etc. performed on configuration screen A are used to update the various configurations of any of count set configuration component test set configuration component timing set component and reward set configuration component as required. The entries etc. can be forwarded from configuration component to any component comprising the message control system such as test generator reward generator message controller messaging component and subcomponent as required to facilitate message control emergency messaging bypass reward generation question answer selection etc.

In a further exemplary non limiting embodiment the various aspects presented herein can be used to determine the success with which the operator e.g. a child of device answers the question s . Returning to it is possible in the best case scenario to get the correct answer in one attempt i.e. answer is selected at the first try. In a worst case scenario the correct answer is not achieved until the fourth try e.g. chosen last from the four answers available.

The degree of success with which questions are answered can be tallied e.g. by message count component and provided to a third party as a means for assessing the intelligence or other measure of the child. As shown in the degree of success can be reported out e.g. report to any suitable party for example report can be provided to educational institutions such as schools colleges universities etc. as a means for establishing intelligence of the child. As shown in with arrow R report can provide details of success of answering a question and other metrics e.g. at first attempt second attempt question difficulty etc. . Further the third party e.g. an educational institution can provide the questions in data store as a means of controlling which questions the child is to be assessed against.

In another exemplary non limiting embodiment the degree of success e.g. details can be provided via a feedback component . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment feedback component can be incorporated into device and thus provides feedback to the operator of device on the success with which the person is answering question s . In another exemplary non limiting embodiment feedback component can also be co located with configuration component operating on any suitable device e.g. a computer cellular phone laptop mobile device etc. and thus provides feedback to the person configuring the messaging operation e.g. how any of messaging component question selection etc. are configured to facilitate their understanding of how the entity e.g. the child operating the device is performing with regard to successfully answering questions . In another aspect the child can be ranked against other children taking the same test to facilitate assessment of how well the child is doing in relation to their peers contemporaries where the ranking can be provided via feedback component .

In a further aspect as previously mentioned a reward or other incentive can generated based upon successful completion of one or more questions . For example if the child maintains a particular percentage for answering questions correctly on the first attempt then a reward can be presented by reward component associated with messaging component . The number of answers to be answered for a reward to be available can be configured for example answers configuration screen of configuration component screen A where a reward can be based on a number of answers answered correctly e.g. 1 5 10 or other value which can be entered or for example a reward can be based on percentage of answers answered correctly such as 80 of questions are answered correctly on a first attempt 90 on a first attempt 95 on a first attempt or other value can be entered per . It is to be appreciated that while not shown a plurality of ways of configuring a reward based on answer success can be utilized such as percentage of questions answered on a first attempt in conjunction with percentage of questions to be answered on a second attempt or how many questions are to be answered on a first attempt how many questions are to be answered on a second attempt etc. A plurality of ways of configuring the reward criteria e.g. answer answer attempts etc. are known in the art and are not further described herein.

For example a reward can be of any suitable form such as concert ticket s theatre ticket s movie ticket s a music download redeemable coupon and the like and stored in electronic format in data store . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment the reward can be provided by the third party as previously described such as the third party provides a music download movie tickets etc. To facilitate generation of a reward a reward configuration component and associated reward configuration screen A as shown in can be utilized to select what sort of reward is to be provided e.g. via reward component on device . For example data store comprises a plurality of rewards such as concert tickets movie tickets apparel etc. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a reward configuration component via associated reward configuration screen A can be utilized to select movie tickets will be presented to the child e.g. via reward component and or test display upon the child maintaining a 95 rate of successfully answering questions in attempts or less for example. In an alternative embodiment a reward can be provided by any suitable means such as via e mail mailed coupon in person redemption etc.

In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a reward generator component can be utilized in conjunction with rewards and reward configuration component to facilitate selection and presentation of a reward on device e.g. via reward component and or test display . For example upon selection of a reward being movie ticket s by reward configuration component data store can be queried by reward generator component to identify rewards in data store that are movie tickets along with any other pertinent information criteria associated with the reward such as in the example of movie tickets an age restriction associated with the movie ticket s etc. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a list of available rewards can be forwarded e.g. via reward generator component to reward component for presentation on device to facilitate selection of a reward at the device .

It is to be appreciated that operation of the message control system e.g. messaging component can be configured at any time e.g. on the fly. For example the child may not have performed a desired activity e.g. washed the dishes and hence as punishment the parent reconfigures the number of messages to be sent to a lower number thus requiring the child to answer more questions for a given number of messages to be sent than when the punishment is not being applied. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment configuration component may be operating on the parent s device not shown and thus the configuration settings e.g. any of message number question categories timing reward etc. can be adjusted at any time by the parent. As shown in via arrow W a reward or plurality of rewards can be presented on the test display component .

While the various embodiments presented herein pertain to controlling operation of messaging from a device e.g. device a situation may occur where the ability to message is locked on device but the operator needs to send a message i.e. in a time of emergency. To facilitate such operation a bypass mode of operation can be enabled whereby the operator is able to operate device in such a manner that in effect the message control system e.g. messaging component is de activated. Hence the operator of the device is able to transmit messages even though they may currently be in a situation that under normal use e.g. non bypass mode use they would not be able to send any messages. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a tally can be kept e.g. by message count component of the number of messages that have been sent in bypass mode. The parent of the child can be notified of the number of bypass mode messages that have been sent e.g. as Bypassed feedback on configuration component and based upon the number of bypasses in accord with a situation of operation e.g. in an emergency subsequent configuration of the device with regard to message generation can be configured at configuration component . For example the number of messages which can be sent prior to a test being presented can be increased such that the operator does not have to go into bypass mode as often as shown in .

In another aspect to facilitate compliance with any standards controlling operation and availability of a device e.g. Enhanced 911 E911 and the like the message control system e.g. messaging component can be configured such that an emergency message can always be sent via the device no matter what the operational state of the message control system e.g. messaging component is in. A tally e.g. compiled by message count component message controller etc. of the number of emergency messages can be reported via the configuration component to facilitate review of usage of device .

In another aspect the operation of the message control system e.g. messaging component can be configured such that it is only in operation during a particular part of the day. For example the message control system can be configured to be in operation during non school hours and not in operation during school hours and vice versa etc.

It is to be appreciated that while the various components comprising system are depicted in various exemplary non limiting embodiments component placement can be at any location within system to facilitate operation of the various embodiments presented herein. For example while message controller test generator and data store are shown as being located at the telecommunication network the location of the message controller test generator and data store can be at any suitable location within the system depicted in . For example message controller and or test generator can be located on device and control operation of device in a local manner. In another example data store can be located on the device whereby questions are drawn locally from the data store with new questions batches of questions being available for download to device from telecommunication network for example. In another example the configuration component can be located on device to facilitate configuration of the count set component and or test set component to enable operation of the various embodiments presented herein by the operator of device e.g. in a situation where the operator of device is using the embodiments presented herein to present questions e.g. trivia self study such as MCAT LSAT SAT etc. on their device as previously described.

At a tally M is maintained e.g. by any of message count messaging component message controller etc. of the number of messages generated with a check being performed at of Do the number of messages M sent equal the number of messages N which can be sent before which messaging is deactivated and a test question presented In the event of the number of sent messages M not equaling N then the flow returns to for subsequent generation of the next message. In the event of the number of sent messages M equaling N then the ability to send messages is locked i.e. messaging by messaging component is de activated at .

At a determination is made as to whether the response submitted at is the correct response. If the response is incorrect then the flow returns to for subsequent entry of a response. If the response is correct then the flow continues to .

At the ability to send a message e.g. message is reactivated and a next group of N messages is able to be sent as the flow returns to .

Any suitable means for populating the data store can be employed for example storing a plurality of questions in the data store by a database administrator or the like such as questions comprising an 8grade education syllabus questions comprising an MCAT examination a SAT examination or an ACT examination MENSA trivia questions questions for a competition reward program etc. where the questions are compiled and stored in the data store.

At in another exemplary non limiting embodiment external access e.g. to a person not associated with the data store provider can be facilitated to enable an entity to populate the data store with the entity being able to submit questions directly to the data store. For example the entity can be a teacher e.g. teacher who populates the data store with questions pertaining to a course of study associated with the teacher e.g. being taught by the teacher thereby enabling the operator of the device e.g. a student of the teacher to be presented with questions associated with the course of study. Alternatively the entity may be a third party company e.g. third party such as an entertainment company providing questions relating to a product service they are offering competition they are associated with and the like. The third party company providing the product service competition etc. can provide the questions directly or the questions may be generated by a marketing advertising company associated with the third party company wherein the marketing advertising company generates and or submits the questions on behalf of the third party company.

At a request can be received for the available questions to be presented for selection by an entity. For example a request can be generated e.g. via any of configuration component configuration screen A test set configuration component etc. for questions stored in the data store to be forwarded e.g. via test generator component to a configuration device e.g. a remote computer utilizing configuration component .

At the various questions available are presented e.g. via test set configuration screen A for review. It is to be appreciated that while a plurality of questions may be stored in the data store a subset or categorized view of questions can be presented e.g. categories to facilitate ease of viewing and or selection. Further any suitable means for question display can be utilized as is known to those of skill in the art and so will not be further described herein. For example a level of difficulty can be selected e.g. with slider with questions and question groupings being presented as the level of question difficulty is adjusted from easier to harder and vice versa.

At a selection of question s for presentment on the device is generated. A selection can be made e.g. via configuration screen A and configuration component which is forwarded to a central system e.g. test generator component operating on telecommunication network with the selected question s being retrieved e.g. by test generator from the data store.

At the selected question s can be made available for presentment on the device. For example a question s can be received and stored e.g. at test generator and subsequently forwarded to the device for presentment upon indication being received e.g. from message count component that a test question s is required e.g. number of sent messages M number of set messages N per . In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a question s can be forwarded and stored locally on the device whereupon when messaging is de activated and a question is required for presentment the question can be retrieved from a local storage device not shown associated with device .

At the number of attempts to answer the question are recorded. As previously described with regard to a plurality of answers e.g. answers can be presented along with the pertinent question e.g. question . As each attempt is made to answer the question e.g. to correctly select the answer from answers the number of attempts made can be recorded. For example if the correct answer is selected on the first attempt the attempt tally is 1. If the correct answer is not selected until the third attempt the attempt tally is 3.

At the attempt tally can be stored either on a storage device local to the device or at a remote storage device .

At acts are repeated as needed in accordance with the number of questions to be answered. As each question is answered the attempt tally for that question can be recorded as well as adding the attempt tally for that question to a total attempt tally for all the questions answered.

At the attempt tally for individual question s along with a total attempt tally for all the questions can be reported out e.g. via report to the third party.

At based on the attempt tallies presented in the report the assessed metric e.g. intelligence quotient can be compared with other children partaking in the test and based thereon admission to the institute can be determined. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment the questions can be provided by the child s teacher and hence based on the attempt tallies the child can be assessed against other pupils being taught by the teacher. Essentially the concept of presenting a series of questions recording the attempt tallies and reporting the attempt tallies enables an assessment of the person operating the device e.g. the child to be assessed ranked with others taking the same series of questions. As previously described the questions can be of any suitable subject matter such as a school grade education syllabus an MCAT examination a SAT examination an ACT examination MENSA trivia questions questions for a competition reward program etc. Further while the exemplary non limiting embodiment relates to providing assessment via a report e.g. report to a third party the report can be forwarded to a person e.g. the parent of the child configuring overseeing usage of the device and operation of the message control system e.g. messaging component where the report can be provided e.g. via feedback component to the interested person via a device the interested person is operating in controlling operation of the device e.g. a remote computer comprising configuration component 

At a determination is made regarding whether the device is in a locked state and the ability to send a message is currently deactivated e.g. messaging component is de activated for example as a result of the number of messages M being previously sent has reached a maximum number N messages as described in .

At in the event of a determination that the device is not locked i.e. N M e.g. messaging component is active the message e.g. message is sent e.g. from device to any of devices and or wherein the flow returns to in readiness for a subsequent message to be sent.

At in the event of a determination that the device is locked i.e. N M and no message can currently be sent e.g. messaging component is de activated until a question is correctly answered a determination is made regarding whether the message is an emergency message e.g. is message a emergency message and the message lock operation is to be bypassed . A means for identifying an emergency message is by an operator selecting an emergency message send component e.g. EMS button whereupon the subsequently generated message e.g. emergency message is flagged as being emergency .

At in the event of a determination that the message is not an emergency message e.g. is not flagged as being an emergency message transmission of the message is prevented owing to the device being in a locked state wherein the flow returns to . For a non emergency message to be sent the message transmission functionality of the device needs to be reactivated as previously described e.g. with reference to etc. before the non emergency message can be sent.

At in the event of the message being identified as being an emergency message the message transmission functionality of the device is reactivated e.g. messaging component is placed in a temporarily activated state to facilitate transmission of the emergency message. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment the message can be flagged as being an emergency message by any suitable means such as on a display e.g. test display displaying a series of questions to be answered a button can be displayed e.g. emergency message button which upon selection flags the requirement to bypass the question answer operation e.g. as presented in and enable entry and transmission of the emergency message.

At upon generation of the emergency message the emergency message is transmitted. Subsequent to the message transmission the ability to send a message from the device returns to the de activated state e.g. messaging component returns to a de activated state to prevent non emergency message s from being subsequently transmitted.

At a tally e.g. by message count component can be kept of how many emergency messages are sent i.e. how often is the question answer operation bypassed while the ability to send a message s from the device is deactivated. After the tally is generated the flow returns to for generation of a subsequent message.

At an emergency message tally report can be generated and forwarded e.g. to configuration component for viewing by a person administering control of how the device is to operate e.g. setting the number N messages which can be sent before the messaging system is de activated. Furthermore the tally can be displayed on the device to facilitate understanding analysis of the number of messages sent in emergency and non emergency mode by the operator of the device. After the tally report is generated the flow returns to for generation of a subsequent message.

The association of a reward to a question or series of questions can be performed by the person administering e.g. the child s parent operation of the message control system e.g. via configuration component where the person can select a reward s from a list of available rewards e.g. rewards rewards . As previously described the reward s can comprise of any suitable commodity for example a concert ticket s a theatre ticket s a movie ticket s a music download s a redeemable coupon s and the like. The reward may also be provided by a third party e.g. third party where the third party can provide the question s along with the rewards or simply just the rewards to be subsequently associated with any stored questions e.g. questions stored in data store . For example as previously described the third party may be attempting to advertise a new album release by a particular performer e.g. singer band etc. and hence provides a series of questions e.g. populates database in data store accompanied by an associated reward s of a music download pertaining to a musical album associated with the performer being advertised.

At a particular requirement for success can be defined. For example the child must answer 8 out of 10 questions correctly with a maximum of two attempts per question where attempt tallies can be provided in accord with the description of for example .

At a metric associated with answering the question s can be recorded e.g. as described previously with reference to . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment the metric can simply be an answer to a question a series of answers to a series of questions or a of answering a particular number of questions correctly. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a time requirement can be placed on answering the question s within a given time period. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment a minimum number of attempts to answer the question s can be defined.

At the recorded values e.g. number of questions answered of questions answered time to answer question s average time to answer question s number of attempt s to answer question s etc. can be assessed against the predefined metric. If the recorded value e.g. attempt tally does not satisfy the predefined metric flow returns to for presentment of a new question or series of question s .

If the recorded metric e.g. average minimum time to answer correctly meets the predefined metric a reward can be presented e.g. via test display component on the device whereupon the child can select the reward or select a reward from a plurality of available rewards. Per the above example the child is able to access the music download as their reward.

At a number of questions to be answered can be defined e.g. via of count set configuration screen A and count set configuration component . In a simple operation the number of questions is one whereby after a number of messages e.g. number of messages M as described in transmitted from device equals a predefined number of messages e.g. number of messages N a single question e.g. question can be presented to be answered whereupon as previously described once the question is successfully answered the ability to send further messages from the device is re activated. Alternatively a value e.g. positive integer greater than 1 can be defined e.g. via of count set configuration screen A and count set configuration component such that a plurality of questions have to be succesfully answered to facilitate re activation of messaging from the device.

At a time of operation of the message control system can be defined e.g. via of timing set configuration screen A and timing set configuration component . In a simple configuration e.g. setting of timing set configuration screen A is selected the timing can be set such that the message control system e.g. messaging component is in operation at all times and whenever a predefined number of messages e.g. number of messages N have been sent the operator of the device e.g. a child has to successfully answer a question before messaging from the device is re activated. In another configuration e.g. settings are entered on timing set configuration screen A a time period can be selected as previously described such as the hours correlating to school hours e.g. 8 AM to 3.30 PM.

At the settings are forwarded e.g. from configuration component to the device e.g. either directly where the configuration component and device are directly communicatively coupled or via telecommunication network message controller when the configuration component and device are not communicatively coupled directly .

At operation of the message control system can be controlled based in part on the number of message s number of answer s and timing of operation configuration settings forwarded e.g. from configuration component to the device e.g. messaging component where the forwarded settings can be utilized to control activation deactivation of messaging by the device as previously described.

In an alternatively exemplary non limiting embodiment parser component can be utilized to determine which question s and reward s should be made available for presentment on a device e.g. device . As previously described datastore can comprise of a plurality of questions e.g. questions pertaining to a plurality of different subjects interests levels of difficulty etc. Further datastore can comprise a plurality of rewards e.g. rewards which are available for presentment on the device. As previously described rewards can be presented via reward set configuration component and reward set configuration screen A however the number of rewards available for presentment may be overwhelming and the operator e.g. the child s parent of configuration component is unable to devote an appropriate amount of time to review the rewards available and select which are to be made available on the device per the acts described with reference to . By utilizing a parsing component all of the available questions and all of the available rewards can be submitted to the parsing component along with information pertaining to the operator of the device for example information pertaining to the child. Such information can comprise information that is suitable for dissemination to a third party e.g. from the parent to the operator of the telecommunication network and can include such parameters as age sex interest s location previously answered question s previously selected reward s etc. By reviewing the questions and or rewards using the information provided to parser component a subset of questions and or a subset of rewards can be made available for selection by the parent e.g. at configuration component and thus the number of questions and or rewards available may be significantly reduced to an amount that the parent is able to review and select from.

At rather than sending the message per message depicted in the message is forwarded to a parsing component e.g. parsing component where the message is parsed to determine if the message contains inappropriate content e.g. sexting as previously described with reference to .

At in the event that the message does not contain inappropriate content the flow advances to where the message is sent and subsequent flow returns to for generation transmission of a subsequent message.

In the event that the message is determined to contain inappropriate content the flow advances to where the ability to send a message is halted e.g. messaging component is temporarily de activated for the transmission of messages .

At at least one question Q is generated to be successfully answered before messaging from the device is re activated.

At a determination is made regarding whether all of the questions have been answered. In the event that not all questions have been answered flow returns to for a subsequent answer to be displayed with flow then proceeding once more to . In the event of all the question s being successfully answered the flow returns to for preparation of transmission of a subsequent message. In an aspect a requirement can be placed upon the success of answering such that rather than the child being able to select all answers in rapid succession until the correct answer is selected if the child does not answer the question correctly within the first two attempts the question can be deemed to have been answered incorrectly and a subsequent question is presented which also has the requirement of a successful answer being selected within a given number of attempts. It is to be appreciated that the operation of having a requirement to answer a question within a given number of attempts and where the number of attempts are exceeded the question is deemed to have been incorrectly answered is applicable to any of the exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein.

At user information e.g. user information can be received at the parser component where the user information pertains to the operator of the device e.g. the child. Such information can include such parameters as age sex interest s location previously answered question s previously selected reward s etc.

At the set of questions e.g. all questions and or the set of rewards e.g. all rewards can be parsed with regard to the user information where the parsing operation can involve comparing keywords contained in the user information with keywords categories etc. associated with or comprising the questions and or rewards.

At any matches between the user information and the questions and or rewards can be presented to the parent e.g. via any of configuration component test set configuration component test set configuration screen A reward set configuration component reward set configuration screen A etc. for review where the questions can be a subset e.g. question subset of all the questions available and the rewards can be a subset e.g. reward subset of all the rewards available.

At from the presented question subset and or reward subset the parent selects which questions and or rewards are to be presented on the device.

At the selected questions and or rewards are presented on the device. In a situation where a series of questions have been selected each question can be presented in accordance with the stepped approach of message s question s message s as presented herein. Regarding the various selected rewards any suitable method of display e.g. on test display component can be utilized e.g. a tiled display of rewards a scrollable list etc.

In a further exemplary non limiting embodiment the concept of controlling operation of a device based upon the presentation of a task and subsequent completion of the task is not limited to controlling operation of messaging from a device e.g. a cellular phone with any other suitable application is considered with the scope of the various embodiments presented herein regarding controlling operation of other devices. For example a question answer operation can be utilized to control operation of television viewing e.g. 20 minutes half hour an hour etc. where correctly answering a question effectively unlocks each period of viewing time. In another example the question answer operation can be utilized to control the amount of time a person spends playing a computer game video game online game or other pursuit whereby a test question can be presented to facilitate further game play e.g. on any applicable system such as a computer mobile device laptop video game console X BOX PLAYSTATION WII interactive television and the like. .

An exemplary non limiting embodiment is shown in comprising a display a data source and other components to facilitate control of a television computer game and the like. A display e.g. a television computer monitor display of a portable device such as a cellular phone tablet pc and the like is connected to a media source . In an embodiment where control of television is being undertaken media source can be any suitable source for media for display on display where media source can comprise of an optical disk storage e.g. DVD compact disc Laserdisc and the like media storage such as a portable memory e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB CompactFlash and the like a digital media storage drive video tape e.g. VHS BETAMAX and the like a digital video recorder e.g. TIVO . In another embodiment content for presentation on display can be provided by a remote source such a telecommunication network e.g. a television network cable television network satellite television network internet television network etc. where such media content can be received at display via an interface . Interface can comprise of any required components to facilitate receipt decoding encoding transmission etc. as required for the media content such as adapters internet modems CABLECARD M CARD antenna systems and the like as is known to those of skill in the art and so will not be further described herein.

Further associated with display is a control component which is utilized to control a period for which media presented on display can be viewed e.g. how long a television program can be viewed by a person e.g. any entity where continuing the previous example such as a child . Controller comprises components necessary to monitor a period of viewing on display and once a defined period of viewing has expired presentation of media on display is temporarily halted while a task e.g. a question is to be successfully completed. Such components can comprise a monitoring component which can be utilized to monitor operation of display . A timer component can be utilized to determine how much time the display has been presenting media and upon expiration of a predefined amount of time monitoring component can temporarily halt presentation of media while a question s is retrieved from storage device . Upon correctly answering question the monitoring component facilitates further viewing of media on display until the next predefined amount of time has expired. Owing to media being received from an external source such as telecommunication network a situation may occur such that the received media content has to be cached e.g. in storage device while the question is being answered. Similar to the previously presented embodiments regarding control of messaging on a device a configuration component can be utilized to perform such operations as setting a time to view period during which media content can be viewed on display question s to be presented etc. However for the sake of brevity and presentation rather than detailing the operation of each and every component in terms of how it relates to presentation and control of media on a display the various concepts pertaining to control of messaging on a device can be equally applied to the various embodiments presented herein regarding presentation of media on display . To facilitate uninterrupted viewing of media content which includes portions of content which the viewer may not be interested in e.g. commercial breaks the presentation of a question can be configured to coincide with presentation of a commercial. Further viewing credits can be accrued whereby prior to viewing desired media content the viewer can answer one or more questions to accrue a desired amount of viewing time. For example a plurality of questions can be answered where each answer is worth 30 minutes of viewing time and hence to obtain 2 hours of viewing time 4 questions are to be correctly answered to obtain 4 credits thereby enabling 2 hours of uninterrupted viewing of media content . In another exemplary non limiting embodiment credit s can be obtained based upon the viewing content or time of viewing. For example a child wishes to stay up later into the evening to watch a particular media content e.g. a movie and hence has to earn more credits for viewing of the late night media content than for an equivalent viewing period that is earlier in the day. In another example the child could be required to earn more credits to watch a given period of time for a first media content e.g. a sporting event than for a same given period of time for a second media content e.g. a science program .

In an exemplary non limiting embodiment similar operation to that presented above can be similarly applied to playing of video games pc games internet based games etc. where gameplay is enabled for a predefined amount of time upon which a task has to be successfully completed before gameplay can continue. A game controller e.g. a joystick or similar interactive device can be utilized in conjunction with display and media source to form a gaming system where media can be a game. Media can be provided by media source e.g. a gaming console digital media source and the like or via a feed such as the internet or other suitable delivery system from a remote network providing digital gaming content. In such a system media source can be similar to the system relating to viewing time previously mentioned where it is possible to accrue playing credits to enable uninterrupted playing of a game for example when playing in a live online scenario against other players. Such accrual of credits can be similarly applied to system where a number of credits can be obtained thereby enabling a number of messages to be sent before further credits have to be obtained.

It is to be appreciated that while system illustrates operation controller component being separate from any of media source display network system etc. the operation controller component can be incorporated into any of the components comprising system e.g. any of media source display network system etc. either as an incorporated device an application software etc. The operation controller component operates in a manner similar to that of messaging component however rather than controlling operation of a messaging system operation controller component controls operation of television viewing e.g. where display and media source comprise an entertainment system and or game play e.g. where display and media source comprise a gaming system .

At usage of a media source e.g. media source display telecommunication network interface is monitored e.g. by monitor component to determine a viewing period of media e.g. media on a display e.g. display versus a predefined period of viewing.

At upon a determination that the viewing period equals the predefined viewing period presentation of the media on the display is temporarily halted.

At a question e.g. question is presented on the display and a determination made regarding whether the answer was correct or not. At in response to a determination that the question was incorrectly answered the flow returns to for presentation of another question. At in response to determination that the question was correctly answered the flow continues to where presentation of the media content on the display resumes for a further predefined period or until viewing is ceased.

At an amount of time is allotted per each question e.g. question answered for example for each question answered a credit e.g. credit of 20 minutes is defined for each question. Hence for example if a viewing period of 1 hour is desired 3 questions are to be correctly answered to enable viewing for the 1 hour period. Further rather than a flat amount of time being available to be accrued for all of the questions an amount of time can be dependent upon the perceived level of difficulty of the question where the more difficult the question the more time available to be accrued.

At a determination is made regarding whether the supplied answer is correct. In response to the answer being incorrect the flow returns to for another question to be answered.

At in response to a determination that the question has been correctly answered at a determination is made regarding whether the required number of questions have been answered in view of the desired amount of time e.g. does required amount of time RT number of questions answered NQ allotted time per question AQ . If more time e.g. RT NQ AQ is required the flow returns to for a further question s to be presented. If the required amount of time is accrued e.g. RT NQ AQ the flow proceeds to where viewing of the media content e.g. media on a display e.g. display is facilitated.

As previously mentioned while the various exemplary non limiting embodiments described in the preceding methodologies are presented with regard to media content being displayed on a display either of the media source or network can provide content for gaming purposes where activation deactivation of the game can be based on answering one or more questions or a period of game play can be accrued by answering one or more questions to facilitate uninterrupted gameplay for a given amount of time.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects have been described in connection with controlling messaging from a device based upon presentation of one or more tests and successfully providing an answer to the test s .

In an embodiment a system is presented comprising plurality of components which can include a memory including at least one computer executable instruction a processor configured to execute the at least one computer executable instruction wherein in response to execution by the processor wherein the at least one computer executable instruction implements components comprising a messaging component configured to transmit at least one message from the system to a remote device tally a number of messages transmitted from the system to a remote device determine whether the number of messages transmitted equals a maximum number of messages to be transmitted and deactivate in response to determining the number of messages transmitted equals the maximum number of messages to be transmitted ability to transmit a subsequent message to the remote device. The system can further comprise a display component wherein the display component is configured to present in response to deactivation of message transmission a question and a plurality of possible answers to the question. The display component can be further configured to receive an answer input from the plurality of possible answers to the question.

In another embodiment the messaging component can be further configured to determine whether the answer input is a correct answer to the question and further in response to determining the answer input is the correct answer activate ability to transmit a subsequent message to the remote device. Furthermore the messaging component can be configured to in response to determining the answer input is the correct answer generate a reward wherein the reward can be configured for presentment on the display component. In an embodiment the reward can be received by the messaging component from a remote network with the reward being at least one of a ticket a download or a coupon.

In a further embodiment the question and the plurality of possible answers to the question can be received e.g. by the messaging component from a remote network. The remote network can be hosted by a telecommunication service provider for the system.

In another embodiment a system e.g. a cellular phone can be configured for receiving a setting for a maximum number of messages M to be sent transmitting a number of messages N to a remote device counting the number of messages N sent determining whether N M and preventing in response to determining N M a subsequent message from being sent. The N messages can be generated in accordance with a short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS enhanced messaging service EMS or a text messaging service. Further the setting for the maximum number of messages M to be sent can be received from a remote device.

In a further embodiment the system can be configured for presenting a question and a plurality of answers pertaining to the question receiving an input pertaining to an answer in the plurality of answers determining whether the inputted answer is a correct answer to the question and enabling in response to determining the inputted answer is the correct answer to the question the ability to send a subsequent message. In a further embodiment the system can be configured for providing in response to determining the inputted answer is the correct answer to the question a reward.

In another embodiment the system can be configured for presenting a question and a plurality of answers pertaining to the question receiving an input pertaining to an answer in the plurality of answers determining whether the inputted answer is a correct answer to the question and preventing in response to determining the inputted answer is incorrect answer to the question the ability to send a subsequent message.

In a further embodiment a computer readable storage medium e.g. located on a cellular phone comprising computer executable instructions can be utilized that in response to execution cause a computing system including a processor to perform operations comprising any of setting a maximum number of messages that can be sent counting a number of messages sent determining whether the number of messages sent equals the maximum number of messages that can be sent deactivating in response to determining the number of messages sent being equal to the maximum number of messages that can be sent an ability to send a subsequent message presenting a question and a plurality of answers pertaining to the question receiving an input answer in the plurality of answers determining whether the input answer is a correct answer to the question and activating in response to determining the input answer is the correct answer the ability to send a subsequent message. In another embodiment the operations can further comprise receiving the question and the plurality of answers pertaining to the question from a remote device.

As mentioned the techniques described herein can be applied to any system supporting the message media content gaming control operations described herein. It can be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments e.g. control of messaging presentation of media content control time of game play. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device where the computing device can comprise any of the components comprising systems and such as device configuration component media source controller configuration component etc. as presented above.

Embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is considered limiting.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter including determining an orientation of a device and effecting a corresponding orientation of an associated oblique plane or slice includes a computer . The computer can include any of a processing component a system memory and a system bus . System bus is employed to couple system components comprising environment including but not limited to the system memory to the processing component . The processing component can be any of various available processors including dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures.

System memory can include volatile memory and non volatile memory . In exemplary non limiting embodiments non volatile memory can comprise any of read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. In an exemplary non limiting embodiment volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory wherein a non exhaustive listing RAM can comprise of synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures and in a non exhaustive listing can include any of 8 bit bus VESA Local Bus VLB Universal Serial Bus USB Extended ISA EISA Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Advanced Graphics Port AGP Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI and Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA .

Computer can also comprise removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media such as for example a disk data store . Disk data store can include in a non exhaustive listing any of a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card memory stick or other device providing comparable functionality. Further disk data store can also comprise storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including in a non exhaustive listing an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . A removable or non removable interface e.g. interface can be employed to facilitate connection of any of one or more disk data store s to the system bus .

Input device s can be employed by an entity to facilitate entry of commands or information into the computer . In a non exhaustive listing input devices can comprise a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard touch screen microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card camera video camera web camera and the like. Further in an exemplary non limiting embodiment input device can be keyboard or similar for device game controller and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing component through the system bus via interface port s . In a non exhaustive listing interface port s can comprise any of a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . It is to be appreciated that output device s can utilize some of the same type of ports as input device s . In an exemplary non limiting embodiment a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . An output adapter can be utilized to facilitate communication with particular output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. In a non exhaustive listing output adapters can include video and sound cards provisioning a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It is to be appreciated that other devices and or systems of devices also provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s . In a non exhaustive listing remote computer s can be a personal computer a tablet PC a mobile device a cellular phone a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and can include some or all of the components both hardware and software comprising computer . Information can be transmitted to remote computer s where such information can relate to required questions e.g. questions answers e.g. answers configuration data e.g. received from configuration component configuration component a message tally e.g. received from message count component reward information e.g. received from third party messaging component configuration component controller configuration component and the like to facilitate operation of the various exemplary non limiting embodiments presented herein wherein the information can be stored in memory storage component . Further remote computer s can also provide any information to facilitate control of messaging question presentation answer determination reward presentation question generation and the like wherein any necessary data e.g. question data answer data configuration data reward data etc. can be retrieved or received from memory storage component for example where remote computer is associated with a server system association with a telecommunications network and the like employed to generate and determine correct answering of questions tasks etc.

Computer can operate in a networked environment utilizing logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be logically connected to computer through a network interface and further can be physically connected via communication component connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . In a non exhaustive listing LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. In a non exhaustive listing WAN technologies include point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Connection of the network interface to the system bus is facilitated by hardware software comprising communication connection s . It is to be appreciated that while communication connection s is shown located inside computer communication connection s can also be located externally to computer . In a non exhaustive listing hardware software comprising communication connection s can comprise of internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards. Where communications can be by any available means e.g. in a non exhaustive listing wired wireless Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 a b g n BLUETOOTH RS 232 data Wi Fi Direct WIMAX Super WIFI WLAN radio etc.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments presented herein for message control applications can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in facilitating incorporation of a device having a plurality of network configurations into any supported network as described for various embodiments presented herein.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to implement controlling ability to send a communication control television viewing control time spent playing a computer game and the like.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques provided herein. Thus embodiments herein can be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more embodiments as described herein. Thus various embodiments described herein can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the various aspects presented herein are not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those having skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements when employed in a claim.

Further the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface etc. are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As mentioned a computer can typically include a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Further computer instructions operations can be stored in memory in the form of non transitory or tangible computing elements e.g. computer readable storage medium where such instructions operations can be executed e.g. by a processor to facilitate operation of one or more exemplary non limiting embodiments as presented herein.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it can be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the exemplary non limiting embodiments can also be appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the various embodiments are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover some illustrated blocks are optional in implementing the methodologies previously described.

Various embodiments described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

In addition to the various embodiments described herein it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding embodiment s without deviating therefrom. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described herein and similarly storage can be effected across a plurality of devices. Accordingly the various aspects presented herein are not to be limited to any single embodiment but rather is to be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

