---

title: Data transmission between devices based on bandwidth availability
abstract: In one embodiment, in response to data to be transmitted to or from an electronic device, the electronic device determines whether the electronic device currently has a first network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth. If the electronic device currently does not have a first network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth, then the electronic device estimates a future time when the electronic device is likely to have a second network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth, and schedules transmission of the data at the future time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185048&OS=09185048&RS=09185048
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09185048
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131231
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 099 973 filed 3 May 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to transmitting data between two devices and more specifically relates to transmitting data from one device to another device based on the bandwidth available to either one or both devices.

Often one electronic device may need to send data to another electronic device over a computer or communications network. For example in a client server environment a client may send data on the client to a server and similarly a server may send data on the server to a client. As another example a user may synchronize data between two of his her electronic devices by sending data from one device to the other device.

This disclosure generally relates to transmitting data between two devices and more specifically relates to transmitting data from one device to another device based on the bandwidth available to either one or both devices.

In particular embodiments in response to data to be transmitted to or from an electronic device the electronic device determines whether the electronic device currently has a first network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth. If the electronic device currently does not have a first network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth then the electronic device estimates a future time when the electronic device is likely to have a second network connection with a sufficiently high bandwidth and schedules transmission of the data at the future time.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

This disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However this disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure this disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Often a first electronic device may send data to a second electronic device over a computer or communications network. Sometimes the amount of data to be transmitted may be relatively small so that the data may be transmitted in a relatively short period of time even if the bandwidth of the network connections for either or both of the two devices may be low. Other times the amount of data to be transmitted may be relatively large. In this case the period of time needed to transmit the data may be relatively long especially if the bandwidth of the network connections for either or both of the two devices is low.

In particular embodiments one or both of the electronic devices sending and receiving the data may be connected to a network wirelessly. In particular embodiments one or both of the electronic devices sending and receiving the data may be a mobile device. Sometimes an electronic device may support multiple means of wireless communications. For example an electronic device such as a mobile phone or a tablet computer may connect to a computer or communications network through a cellular radio connection e.g. cellular or 3G or a Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 connection. Some types of wireless connections may have relatively higher bandwidths while other types of wireless connections may have relatively lower bandwidths. For example a Wi Fi connection often has a higher bandwidth than a cellular radio connection. Thus in particular embodiments when one electronic device sends or receives data to or from another electronic device if the first electronic device connects to a network wirelessly and the amount of data to be transmitted is relatively large then it may be desirable to transmit the data over a wireless connection that has a relatively higher bandwidth. This may be desirable to allow the user to use available bandwidth for other applications reduce the cost of network access and or to conserve battery power.

Suppose that the first device needs to send data to or receive data from the second device as illustrated in STEP . For example the second device may be a server hosting a social networking website. The user of the first device may be a user of the social networking website and may access his her account with the social networking website through the first device. The user may upload photos or videos to his her account at the social networking website to be stored in some data store associated with the social networking website send messages to other users of the social networking website or download messages posts event information or photos sent to his her account at the social networking website.

If the first device connects to a network wirelessly then depending on the current location or status of the first device the first device may or may not have a wireless connection at the moment as illustrated in STEP . For example suppose that the first device is a mobile telephone. If the user takes his her mobile telephone to a underground facility or a rural area the mobile telephone may not be able to receive any radio signal. Or if the battery of the mobile telephone runs too low the mobile telephone may not have sufficient power to connect with a cellular tower.

If the first device does not have any wireless connection to a network at the moment STEP NO then the user needs to wait until the first device has a wireless connection to a network before the data may be sent to or received from the second device as illustrated in STEP .

On the other hand if the first device has a wireless connection to a network at the moment STEP YES then particular embodiments may determine whether that wireless connection has a relatively higher bandwidth or a relatively lower bandwidth as illustrated in STEP . As described above the first device may be able to connect to a network through multiple types of wireless connections e.g. cellular or Wi Fi . Some types of wireless connections e.g. Wi Fi may have higher bandwidths than other types of wireless connections e.g. cellular . The bandwidth of a wireless connection may be determined using any applicable means. For example the bandwidth of a wireless connection may be determined based on the type of the connection e.g. cellular network connection vs. Wi Fi connection or 3G connection vs. standard cellular connection . As another example the bandwidth of a wireless connection may be determined by sending a test or probe packet over the connection.

In particular embodiments a predetermined threshold may be used to determine if the bandwidth of a wireless connection is considered high or low. More specifically if the bandwidth of a wireless connection is at or above the threshold particular embodiments may consider that the connection has a relatively higher bandwidth. Conversely if the bandwidth of a wireless connection is below the threshold particular embodiments may consider that the connection has a relatively lower bandwidth.

If the wireless connection the first device has at the moment has a relatively higher bandwidth e.g. a Wi Fi connection STEP YES in particular embodiments the first device may send the data to or receive the data from the second device immediately over the wireless connection that has the relatively higher bandwidth as illustrated in STEP .

On the other hand if the wireless connection the first device has at the moment has a relatively lower bandwidth e.g. a cellular connection STEP NO or if the cellular tower to which the first device is connected has a relatively higher workload e.g. a large number of mobile devices are connected to the cellular tower at that particular time and so the cellular tower may be overloaded with servicing many mobile devices at the same time then particular embodiments may determine whether the data to be sent or received have a relatively higher priority as illustrated in STEP . Optionally particular embodiments may also determine whether the amount of data to be sent or received is relatively large. For example if the amount of data to be sent or received is relatively small e.g. a few kilobytes then even if the wireless connection the first device has at the moment has a relatively lower bandwidth the first device may still choose to send or receive the data since it may only take a short period of time e.g. a few minutes to transmit the data due to the small amount of data need to be transmitted. On the other hand if the amount of data to be sent or received is relatively large e.g. several hundred megabytes then if the wireless connection the first device has at the moment has a relatively lower bandwidth it may take a very long time e.g. half an hour to transmit the data over the slower wireless connection.

In this case in particular embodiments the first device may decide whether to send or receive the data immediately over the slower wireless connection or wait until a later time when the first device may have a faster wireless connection before sending or receiving the data depending on how important the data are. For example if the user needs the information provided by the data immediately or fairly quickly e.g. the data provide a map with driving directions to a location that the user needs to go to then the data may be considered to have a higher priority. As another example if it does not make much difference whether the data are transmitted immediately or at a later time e.g. the user wants to update some photos to his her account with the social networking website then the data may be considered to have a lower priority.

In particular embodiments there may be an operating system on the first device. The operating system may include a kernel and a number of device drivers associated with the hardware components of the first device. For example the first device may include a Global Positioning System GPS sensor capable of determining the GPS coordinates of the first device at a given time. The GPS coordinates may be used to determine the physical location of the first device at a given time. There may be a number of software applications on the first device as well which may be executed in the environment provided by the operating system. A module of the operating system e.g. a driver or an application may cause data to be sent from or received at the first device. In particular embodiments when a software module causes data to be sent from or received at the first device the software module may provide information indicating the amount and or the priority level e.g. whether the data are needed immediate how important the data are of the data to be transmitted. This information may be used to determine whether the data should be transmitted immediately or at a later time.

If the data have a relatively higher priority STEP YES then in particular embodiments the first device may send or receive the data immediately even if the wireless connection the first device has at the moment has a relatively lower bandwidth as illustrated in STEP .

On the other hand if the data have a relatively lower priority STEP NO then particular embodiments may determine a future time when the first device may have a wireless connection with a relatively higher bandwidth as illustrated in STEP and schedule the data transmission for that future time as illustrated in STEP . When the scheduled time arrives the first device may then send or receive the data as illustrated in STEP .

Particular embodiments may monitor and collect the user s online activities especially activities in connection with the first device and other information of the first device e.g. the GPS coordinates provided by the first device to construct a behavior profile for the user. The profile may include information such as for example and without limitation the location the user with the first device is likely to be at a particular time e.g. morning afternoon evening weekdays weekends the length of time the user may stay at a location whether a location allows for access to a faster e.g. a Wi Fi connection or slower wireless connection or no connection at all the signal strength of the wireless connection at a location and so on. The user s online activities and device information may be monitored by the user s device and collected continually so that the user s behavior profile may be updated from time to time based on the latest information collected for the user s device.

Based on the information in the user s behavior profile particular embodiments may estimate whether the user with the first device may be at a location with a faster wireless connection e.g. a connection with a higher bandwidth at a time in the near future. For example if the user s profile suggests that the user with the first device is very likely to be at a location e.g. a coffee house that has a Wi Fi connection in approximately one hour s time then particular embodiments may schedule the transmission of the low priority data for that time so that the data may be transmitted over the Wi Fi connection and thus the transmission may take less time. In one implementation a user profile may include a probability value for given time intervals e.g. 1 hour intervals across a week or other time period indicating the likelihood that the first user will be at a location allowing for access to a relatively higher bandwidth connection. Such a user profile may be based on a process implemented on the user s device that wakes up on a periodic basis and scans for available network connections and records them in association with location coordinates provided by a GPS sensor.

If based on the information in the user s behavior profile it is estimated that the user with the first device is unlikely to be at any location with a faster wireless connection in the near future e.g. not in the next 6 hours then it may be desirable to transmit the data immediately rather than waiting for a long time for the first device to have a faster wireless connection. Alternatively if applicable a portion of the data may be transmitted immediately and the rest of the data may be transmitted at a later time when the first device has a wireless connection with a higher bandwidth. For example if the user wishes to upload some photos on his her device to a server a low resolution version of the photos e.g. thumbnails of the photos may be sent to the server immediately and the high resolution version of the photos may be sent to the server at a later time when the first device eventually has a faster wireless connection.

Suppose that a user wishes to upload a set of images e.g. photos taken with the user s mobile device from his mobile device i.e. the first device to a server i.e. the second device and these images have relatively higher resolutions and thus relatively larger file sizes. Further suppose that the first device currently has a wireless connection with a relatively lower bandwidth and is estimated as being unlikely to be at any location with a faster connection in the near future e.g. based on the user s behavior profile . In particular embodiments a set of thumbnails e.g. images with relatively lower resolutions and thus relatively smaller file sizes may be created for the set of higher resolution images. This set of thumbnails may be sent to the second device first. Since these thumbnails have relatively smaller file sizes even with a slower wireless connection they may be transmitted within a reasonable amount of time. Then some time in the future when the first device eventually is able to acquire a faster wireless connection the set of higher resolution images may be sent to the second device.

Based on the information in the user s behavior profile particular embodiments may also estimate whether the user with the first device may be at a location with no wireless connection at all in the near future. If this may be the case it may be desirable to ensure that the data are transmitted before the first device loses its wireless connection especially if the first device may not have any connection for a long time. Thus if there are data that need to be transmitted particular embodiments may start the transmission immediately even if the first device may have a slower wireless connection. Still further the current location of the user may not sufficient correspond to the user location history corresponding to the user profile. In this instance the first device may perform any number of actions discussed above transmitting immediately or waiting for a relatively higher bandwidth connection which are a matter of engineering and design choice. Furthermore the first device may apply the same or a different process when a previously scheduled transmission is currently due for transmission. For example if a scheduled transmission is due for transmission but no higher bandwidth connection is available the first device may defer transmission or transmit immediately. In some implementations the decision may be biased based on the number of transmit attempts.

In particular embodiments the method illustrated in may be used by users of a social networking website to synchronize data between the user devices and the servers hosting the social networking website. A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in the form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc.

In particular embodiments a user of a social networking website may access the social networking website or his her user account with the social networking website using a mobile device e.g. a smart phone or a tablet computer . The mobile device may be connected to a computer or communications network wirelessly e.g. through a Wi Fi 3G or cellular connection . When the mobile device sends or receives data to or from one of the servers hosting the social networking website e.g. when the user uploads photos taken with the mobile device to his her user account with the social networking website the method illustrated in may be applied.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . This disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wireline wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments a social networking system implementing a social networking website may be hosted on one or more servers .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

