---

title: Managing trust relationships
abstract: Systems and methods for managing trust relationships. In some embodiments, a method may include receiving an indication of an in-person transaction between a first user and a second user; calculating, for the first user, a trust score associated with the second user, the trust score based, at least in part, upon the indication; and storing a record of the trust score. For example, the in-person transaction may include a face-to-face meeting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143503&OS=09143503&RS=09143503
owner: Dell Products, L.P.
number: 09143503
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131210
---
This disclosure relates generally to computer systems and more specifically to systems and methods for managing trust relationships.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an Information Handling System IHS . An IHS generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications IHSs may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in IHSs allow for IHSs to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage global communications etc. In addition IHSs may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Furthermore as mobile communications continue to proliferate interactions between friends and colleagues also increases as well as the variety of devices and tools used for such communications. In the workplace for example colleagues may routinely participate in person meetings as well as virtual collaboration sessions or virtual meetings. Generally speaking virtual collaboration is a manner of collaboration carried out via IHS mediated communication or other technological channels.

The inventors hereof have recognized that because of our ever expanding contact lists it becomes more and more difficult to remember who all our contacts are and what interactions we have had with them. This situation makes trusting a user s identity and associated decisions much more difficult. For instance a user s confidence can be lost if adversaries can easily spoof as an otherwise trusted person or entity.

Embodiments of systems and methods for managing trust relationships. In an illustrative non limiting embodiment a method may include receiving an indication of an in person transaction between a first user and a second user calculating for the first user a trust score associated with the second user the trust score based at least in part upon the indication and storing a record of the trust score. For example the in person transaction may include a face to face meeting. Also the first user may operate a first communication device and the second user may operate a second communication device and the indication may be received in response to a face to face interaction between the first and second communication devices.

In some cases the interaction may include at least one of a file transfer a message an application sharing session or a desktop sharing session. Moreover calculating the trust score may include calculating a weighted mean among a one or more attributes and corresponding weights. For example the one or more attributes may include a user registration of the second user with the IHS to receive one or more trust services. Additionally or alternatively the one or more attributes may include an age of an account associated with the second user. Additionally or alternatively the one or more attributes may include detection of malicious material on a device operated by the second user. Additionally or alternatively the one or more attributes may include a physical distance between the first and second users during the in person transaction. Additionally or alternatively the one or more attributes may include a presence of a third user during the in person transaction and wherein the third user is registered with the IHS to receive one or more trust services.

The method may also include receiving another indication of another in person transaction between the first user and the second user and re calculating the trust score associated with the second user the trust score based at least in part upon the indication and the other indication. The method may include periodically reduce the trust score by a predetermined amount in the absence of subsequent in person transactions. The method may further include transmitting a certificate to the first user with an indication of the trust score.

In another illustrative non limiting embodiment a method may include detecting a locally initiated communication between the first user and a second user calculating for the first user a trust score associated with the second user the trust score based at least in part upon the locally initiated communication and storing a record of the trust score. The locally initiated communication may include at least one of a file transfer a message an application sharing session or a desktop sharing session.

In some embodiments calculating the trust score may include calculating a weighted mean among a plurality of attributes selected from the group consisting of a user registration of the second user an age of an account associated with the second user detection of malicious material on a device operated by the second user a physical distance between the first and second users during the locally initiated communication and a presence of a third registered user during the locally initiated communication.

The method may also include detecting by the IHS operated by the first user a remotely initiated communication between the first user and the second user and determining whether to allow the remotely initiated communication based at least in part upon the trust score. The remotely initiated communication may include at least one of an email an instant message a phone call or a virtual collaboration session.

In yet another illustrative non limiting embodiment a method may include receiving a first indication of a first transaction between a first user and a second user wherein the first transaction takes place during a virtual collaboration session between the first and second users calculating for the first user a trust score associated with the second user the trust score based at least in part upon the first indication receiving a second indication of a second transaction initiated by the second user toward the first user after the first transaction and outside of the virtual collaboration session and updating the trust score in response to the second indication. The method may further include associating the second user with one of a plurality of trust levels each of the plurality of trust levels corresponding to a selected range of trust scores.

In some embodiments one or more of the techniques described herein may be performed at least in part by an Information Handling System IHS operated by a given one of a plurality of participants of a virtual collaboration session. In other embodiments these techniques may be performed by an IHS having a processor and a memory coupled to the processor the memory including program instructions stored thereon that upon execution by the processor cause the IHS to execute one or more operations. In yet other embodiments a non transitory computer readable medium may have program instructions stored thereon that upon execution by an IHS cause the IHS to execute one or more of the techniques described herein.

Turning to a diagram illustrating an example of an environment where systems and methods for managing trust relationships may be implemented is depicted according to some embodiments. As shown interactive collaboration tool operates as a central meeting host and or shared digital whiteboard for conference room in order to enable a virtual collaboration session. In some embodiments interactive collaboration tool may include or otherwise be coupled to a real time communications server a web server an object store server and or a database. Moreover interactive collaboration tool may be configured with built in intelligence and contextual awareness to simplify meeting setup and provide continuity between meetings and desk work.

In some implementations for example interactive collaboration tool may include a video projector or any other suitable digital and or image projector that receives a video signal e.g. from a computer a network device or the like and projects corresponding image s on a projection screen using a lens system or the like. In this example image corresponds to a whiteboarding application but it should be noted that any collaboration application may be hosted and or rendered using tool during a virtual collaboration session.

Any number of in room participants A N and any number of remote participants A N may each operate a respective IHS or computing device including for example desktops laptops tablets or smartphones. In a typical situation in room participants A N are in close physical proximity to interactive collaboration tool whereas remote participants A N are located in geographically distributed or remote locations such as other offices or their homes. In other situations however a given collaboration session may include only in room participants A N or only remote participants A N.

Interactive collaboration tool and participants A N and A N may include any end point device capable of audio or video capture and that has access to network . In various embodiments telecommunications network may include one or more wireless networks circuit switched networks packet switched networks or any combination thereof to enable communications between two or more of IHSs. For example network may include a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN one or more cellular networks e.g. third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or Long Term Evolution LTE wireless networks satellite networks computer or data networks e.g. wireless networks Wide Area Networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs Local Area Networks LANs Virtual Private Networks VPN the Internet etc. or the like.

As illustrated web browser or native application may be configured to communicate with application server or web services and vice versa via link using any suitable protocol such as for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or HTTP Secure HTTPS . Each module within client platform and application server or web services may be responsible to perform a specific operation or set of operations within the collaborative framework.

Particularly client platform may include user interface UI view models module configured to provide a lightweight flexible user interface that is portable across platforms and device types e.g. web browsers in personal computers tablets and phones using HyperText Markup Language HTML 5 Cascading Style Sheets CSS 3 and or JavaScript . Client controller module may be configured to route incoming and outgoing messages accordingly based on network requests or responses. Natural User Interface NUI framework module may be configured to operate various hardware sensors for touch multi point touch visual and audio provide the ability for voice commands and gesturing e.g. touch and 3D based . Context engine module may be configured to accept numerous inputs such as hardware sensor feeds and text derived from speech. In some instances context engine module may be configured to perform operations such as for example automatic participant identification automated meeting joining and collaboration via most effective manner location aware operations e.g. geofencing proximity detection or the like and associated management file detection delivery etc.

Client platform also includes security and manageability module configured to perform authentication and authorization operations and connectivity framework module configured to detect and connect with other devices e.g. peer to peer . Connected productivity module may be configured to provide a web service API WS API that allows clients and host to communicate and or invoke various actions or data querying commands. Unified Communication UCM module may be configured to broker audio and video communication including file transfers across devices and or through third party systems .

Within client platform hardware layer may include a plurality of gesture tracking e.g. touchscreen or camera audio and video capture e.g. camera microphone etc. and wireless communication devices or controllers e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Near Field Communications or the like . Operating system and system services layer may have access to hardware layer upon which modules rest. In some cases third party plug ins not shown may be communicatively coupled to virtual collaboration application and or modules via an Application Programming Interface API .

Server platform includes meeting management module configured to handle operations such as for example creating and managing meetings linking virtual workspace notifying participants of invitations and or providing configuration for auto calling push pull participants upon start of a meeting among others. Context aware service may be configured to provide services used by context engine of client platform . Calendaring module may be configured to unify participant and resource scheduling and to provide smart scheduling for automated search for available meeting times.

Moreover server platform also includes file management module configured to provide file storage transfer search and versioning. Location service module may be configured to perform location tracking both coarse and fine grained that relies on WiFi geo location Global Positioning System GPS and or other location technologies. Voice service module may be configured to perform automated speech recognition speech to text text to speech conversation and audio archival. Meeting metrics module may be configured to track various meeting metrics such as talk time topic duration and to provide analytics for management and or participants.

Still referring to server platform Natural Language Processing NLP service module may be configured to perform automatic meeting summation minutes conference resolution natural language understanding named entity recognition parsing and disambiguation of language. Data management module may be configured to provide distributed cache and data storage of application state and session in one or more databases. System configuration manageability module may provide the ability to configure one or more other modules within server platform . Search module may be configured to enable data search operations and UCM manager module may be configured to enable operations performed by UCM broker in conjunction with third party systems .

Security authentication authorization module may be configured to perform one or more security or authentication operations and message queue module may be configured to temporarily store one or more incoming and or outgoing messages. Within server platform operating system and system services layer may allow one or more modules to be executed.

In some embodiments server platform may be configured to interact with a number of other servers including but not limited to database management systems DBMSs file repositories search engines and real time communication systems. Moreover UCM broker and UCM manager may be configured to integrate and enhance third party systems and services e.g. Outlook Gmail Dropbox Box.net Google Cloud Amazon Web Services Salesforce Lync WebEx Live Meeting using a suitable protocol such as HTTP or Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

For purposes of this disclosure an IHS may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an IHS may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. Personal Digital Assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. An IHS may include Random Access Memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a Central Processing Unit CPU or hardware or software control logic Read Only Memory ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory.

Additional components of an IHS may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. An IHS may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

CPU s are coupled to northbridge controller or chipset via front side bus . Northbridge controller may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between CPU s and other components. For example in this particular implementation northbridge controller is coupled to graphics device s e.g. one or more video cards or adaptors via graphics bus e.g. an Accelerated Graphics Port or AGP bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect or PCI bus or the like . Northbridge controller is also coupled to system memory via memory bus . Memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by CPU s . In various embodiments memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory.

Northbridge controller is coupled to southbridge controller or chipset via internal bus . Generally speaking southbridge controller may be configured to handle various of IHS s I O operations and it may provide interfaces such as for instance Universal Serial Bus USB audio serial parallel Ethernet or the like via port s pin s and or adapter s over bus . For example southbridge controller may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between IHS and other devices such as other IHSs attached to a network e.g. network . In various embodiments southbridge controller may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fiber Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Southbridge controller may also enable connection to one or more keyboards keypads touch screens scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or retrieving data. Multiple I O devices may be present in IHS . In some embodiments I O devices may be separate from IHS and may interact with IHS through a wired or wireless connection. As shown southbridge controller is further coupled to one or more PCI devices e.g. modems network cards sound cards or video cards and to one or more SCSI controllers via parallel bus . Southbridge controller is also coupled to Basic I O System BIOS and to Super I O Controller via Low Pin Count LPC bus .

BIOS includes non volatile memory having program instructions stored thereon. Those instructions may be usable CPU s to initialize and test other hardware components and or to load an Operating System OS onto IHS . Super I O Controller combines interfaces for a variety of lower bandwidth or low data rate devices. Those devices may include for example floppy disks parallel ports keyboard and mouse temperature sensor and fan speed monitoring control among others.

In some cases IHS may be configured to provide access to different types of computer accessible media separate from memory . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include any tangible non transitory storage media or memory media such as electronic magnetic or optical media e.g. magnetic disk a hard drive a CD DVD ROM a Flash memory etc. coupled to IHS via northbridge controller and or southbridge controller .

The terms tangible and non transitory as used herein are intended to describe a computer readable storage medium or memory excluding propagating electromagnetic signals but are not intended to otherwise limit the type of physical computer readable storage device that is encompassed by the phrase computer readable medium or memory. For instance the terms non transitory computer readable medium or tangible memory are intended to encompass types of storage devices that do not necessarily store information permanently including for example RAM. Program instructions and data stored on a tangible computer accessible storage medium in non transitory form may afterwards be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link.

A person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that IHS is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure described herein. In particular any computer system and or device may include any combination of hardware or software capable of performing certain operations described herein. In addition the operations performed by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be performed by fewer components or distributed across additional components. Similarly in other embodiments the operations of some of the illustrated components may not be performed and or other additional operations may be available.

For example in some implementations northbridge controller may be combined with southbridge controller and or be at least partially incorporated into CPU s . In other implementations one or more of the devices or components shown in may be absent or one or more other components may be added. Accordingly systems and methods described herein may be implemented or executed with other IHS configurations.

In various embodiments the virtual collaboration architecture described above may be used to implement a number of systems and methods in the form of virtual collaboration application shown in . These systems and methods may be related to meeting management shared workspace e.g. folder sharing control remote desktop or application sharing digital whiteboard e.g. collaboration arbitration boundary or light curtain based input recognition and or personal engagement e.g. attention loss detection eye tracking etc. some of which are summarized below and explained in more detail in subsequent section s .

For example virtual collaboration application may implement systems and or methods for enhanced trust relations based on peer to peer P2P direct communications. In many situations people whom have not met in person may be in communication with each other via email instant messages IMs and through social media. With the emerging P2P direct communications face to face communication may be used as an out of band peer authentication we have met . By attaching this attribute in a user s contact list when the user is contacted by other people whose contact information indicates that they have interacted face to face these systems and methods may provide the user a higher level of trust.

Referring back to in room participants A N and remote participants A N may interact with one another during the course of a virtual collaboration session hosted by interactive collaboration tool . In some embodiments these interactions may be used to create and or maintain trust relationships among users A N and A N. It should be noted however that the same principles discussed herein may be applied in the absence of such virtual collaboration sessions. In other contexts which are not limited to the work environment other forms of interactions may be used to create and or maintain similar types of trust relationships.

Generally speaking the trust relationship systems and methods described herein may leverage in person electronic transactions or communications e.g. those that have taken place between two or more of in room participants A N to assign or modify a trust score for one or more parties who have participated in those transactions or communications. For example with peer to peer P2P direct communications using Wi Fi Direct Near Field Communications NFC Bluetooth etc. users typically communicate or conduct transactions in close physical proximity to each other. In fact these types of communications are almost always initiated from a face to face interaction. Moreover in most cases upon successfully completion of a face to face transaction or communication a higher level of trust may be implied between users.

Upon completion of a face to face transaction or communication a trust score may be calculated for the parties for example by taking a variety of attributes assigning corresponding weights to each attribute and calculating a weighted average of those attributes as described in more detail below. The resulting trust score may be used to facilitate subsequent transactions or communications involving those parties. For example later transactions or communications initiated remotely may take place after a virtual collaboration session is over and in room participants A N are no longer in the same room or otherwise in close physical proximity to one another. Examples of remotely initiated communications include but are not limited to emails instant messages phone calls virtual collaboration sessions etc. In those cases the previously calculated trust score may be used to automatically allow or deny the remote transaction or communication or to provide a user with trust information that allows him or her to manually accept or decline the remote transaction or communication.

In some embodiments the trust relationship systems and methods described herein make take advantage of a trust relationship resulting from face to face interaction and may include users who participated in these sessions into a special face to face group which has a higher level of identity trust than other groups or contacts. Thus in some implementations an application may utilize this feature to indicate the level of trust or trust score e.g. with a special icon or color code when displaying a user from this group within a list of other users or contacts or when receiving invitations to participate in transactions or communications such as for example instant messaging file sharing application desktop sharing or other on line peer based collaboration activities.

In some implementations an existing IHS or an application database employed for storing an otherwise known type of user account e.g. address book contact list etc. may be extended to accommodate the trust relationship features described herein. In other cases a trust relationship database may be created for the sole or main purpose of storing trust scores and other trust related data. In either case trust scores may be persisted and available for update and querying as needed by other applications. For example a trust relationship system may be implemented at least in part as a service provided by server platform .

Assume as a hypothetical example that server platform issues a first trust score of 120 or any other value to a first user and a second trust score of 101 or any other value to a second user each user operating a respective IHS or communication device. Each trust score may reflect an age of an account associated with the user detection of malicious material on the device operated by the user a physical distance between the users during the locally initiated or face to face communication the presence of a third registered user nearby during the locally initiated communication etc.

Then assume that the first and second users complete a successful face to face transaction or communication e.g. in the absence of a malicious event such as a virus or other malware being exchanged between the users . Hence in response to the successful transaction the first user s trust score is incremented to or any other incremented value and the second user s trust score is incremented to or any other incremented value . The first and second users may then upload their respective updated trust scores to server platform which are then stored in a database. In many cases these techniques may then add a level of trust between users even if they are not in the same organization based on trust established through face to face and close proximity interactions.

It should be noted that in various implementations trust scores of a given user s peers may be particular for that user. Each relationship one to one relationship between participants results in a unique trust score. One user may have a given trust score associated with a peer but an additional user may have a different trust score associated with that same peer. In this case the first user may have had more or more recent in person transactions with the peer than the second user and therefore the first user may have a higher trust score for the peer than the second user.

To better illustrate the foregoing is a flowchart of an example of a method for managing trust relationships from a service perspective. Particularly method begins at block and may be performed in some embodiments by a user operating an IHS or other communication device to interact with security authentication authorization module of server platform . At block a user creates an account for a trust relationship web service and the account is created in an identity database at block . At block method includes deriving a trust score using data such as for example a number of successful or unsuccessful transactions performed by the user the presence of malicious flags or lack thereof and the age of the account. Then at block method includes issuing a certificate to the user s device which includes an indication of the trust score.

Block initiates a transaction result listener which is configured to receive the results of transactions or communications involving the user. If a successful transaction is received and stored at block control returns to block so that the trust score may be updated. Similarly if a malicious flag or other problem is detected at block and not remediated at block control again returns to block to update the trust score accordingly.

In some cases a transaction or communication may be deemed successful if received or accepted by another user without resulting in a malicious flag or the like. In general a malicious flag may result in some cases when the transaction or communication gives rise to the detection of a virus or other malware on the user s device. If the receiving user declines the transaction or communication or if the transaction or communication otherwise results in an error and therefore is not completed it may be deemed unsuccessful.

At block method includes reducing the trust score by 5 or another predetermined amount for each day or other selected period of time that has passed since the download of the certificate. This reduction or adjustment may be performed locally by the user s own client platform . At block the calculated local trust score is made available publically and then either at block a data transfer or communication is initiated to another user or at block a request for a data transfer or communication is received from another user.

At block if electronic transaction is successfully complete the trust score is incremented locally at client platform . At block the user is displayed the option to flag the transfer or communication as malicious. If the user selects that option block includes reducing the trust score of the other user to zero or by a predetermined amount until the other user demonstrably completes a remediation process e.g. the other user eliminates a computer virus or the like . Then at block the results of the transactions and updated trust scores are updated to server platform and method ends at block .

In some embodiments the transactions referred to in may include in person or face to face transactions. These locally initiated transactions are those where users are in close physical proximity to each other. Typically in person transactions or communications occur when users are a few feet from each other or may be attending a meeting or other event in the same room. In person transactions are in contrast with remote transactions where users may be in different rooms buildings cities or countries. Usually remote transactions are such that users devices are far enough away from each other that P2P direct communications technologies are not possible or out of range.

In person transactions may be identified as such to allow calculation of trust scores to be affected or modified by them. In some cases when two users are in the same room and initiate a data transfer communication or other transaction using their respective devices P2P communication technologies may be used to determine that those users were in fact in the presence of one another during the transaction. Additionally or alternatively location technology such as Global Positioning Satellite GPS coordinates may be gathered at the moment of the transaction and compared to verify that the partiers were in the same location. Once determined that the transaction was performed as an in person or face to face transaction an indication of that transaction its outcome successful or unsuccessful accepted or declined etc. and other pertinent data may be provided to security authentication authorization module to facilitate calculation of trust score s .

In some cases the trust score may be calculated via a weighted mean defined as wx where each data input or attribute xis associated with a predefined non negative weight wfor n attributes. Attributes may include user registration malicious flags i.e. malware detection on device account age based on date created and proximity with respect to existing registered users. As an example consider the following defined trust inputs and corresponding weights for a hypothetical user shown in Table I 

In other words the user registered their account 10 days ago successfully completed the process in having a certificate issued to their device was hit with a drive by download when they visited a website that contains two pieces of malware and interacted with an existing user on 3 occasions. In this situation the user s trust score is 76.7 calculated as 1000 1700 50 3000 1920 410 25 5 30 30 7670 100 76.7

In some cases a numerical trust score may be translated into another type of trust score separated by ranges and designated as low medium or high for example. Moreover the score may be combined with an icon of trust to display to the user and the color and or shape of the icon may itself convey an indication of the level of trust involved in a transaction. In that regard shows graphic illustrating an example of different trust levels according to some embodiments. In this case row shows a numerical trust score between 0 70 translating into a low score and a red icon which means that a low level of trust has been established with a peer. When receiving a transaction request from a peer with a low score for instance an application may evaluate the trust score and recommend that the user deny the incoming participation request and engage directly with that peer to establish further trust.

Row shows that a numerical trust score of 71 95 translates into a medium score and a yellow icon meaning that a medium level of trust has been established with a peer. When receiving a transaction request from a peer with a low score for instance an application may evaluate the trust score and recommend that the user proceed with caution and review incoming participation requests on a case by case basis. Also row shows a numerical trust score of 96 and above translating into a high score and a green icon which means that a high level of trust has been established with a peer. Upon evaluation an application may determine that there is a very strong relationship between the user and the peer that can be relied upon.

Trust scores may be kept with a user entry in a database then issued to the corresponding endpoint device via a certificate. Although not always necessary use of a certificate may help maintain authenticity and integrity by ensuring the trust score cannot be tampered with issued from a trust source . A certificate also helps to persist the user s registration information locally on their devices. Additionally or alternatively an authentication token such as a cookie or the like may be used.

With each successful P2P direct interaction the trust scores of the parties are incremented. Any given user may then have the option to reset the trust score to zero which then goes through a remediation process on the backend and or skip the trust score increment after a successful direct P2P interaction white list user .

It should be understood that various operations described herein may be implemented in software executed by logic or processing circuitry hardware or a combination thereof. The order in which each operation of a given method is performed may be changed and various operations may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. It is intended that the invention s described herein embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description should be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although the invention s is are described herein with reference to specific embodiments various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention s as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention s . Any benefits advantages or solutions to problems that are described herein with regard to specific embodiments are not intended to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims.

Unless stated otherwise terms such as first and second are used to arbitrarily distinguish between the elements such terms describe. Thus these terms are not necessarily intended to indicate temporal or other prioritization of such elements. The terms coupled or operably coupled are defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. The terms a and an are defined as one or more unless stated otherwise. The terms comprise and any form of comprise such as comprises and comprising have and any form of have such as has and having include and any form of include such as includes and including and contain and any form of contain such as contains and containing are open ended linking verbs. As a result a system device or apparatus that comprises has includes or contains one or more elements possesses those one or more elements but is not limited to possessing only those one or more elements. Similarly a method or process that comprises has includes or contains one or more operations possesses those one or more operations but is not limited to possessing only those one or more operations.

