---

title: PLC backplane analyzer for field forensics and intrusion detection
abstract: The various technologies presented herein relate to the determination of unexpected and/or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane. Control data, etc., can be intercepted at a backplane where the backplane facilitates communication between a controller and at least one device in an automation process. During interception of the control data, etc., a copy of the control data can be made, e.g., the original control data can be replicated to generate a copy of the original control data. The original control data can continue on to its destination, while the control data copy can be forwarded to an analyzer system to determine whether the control data contains a data anomaly. The content of the copy of the control data can be compared with a previously captured baseline data content, where the baseline data can be captured for a same operational state as the subsequently captured control data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09032522&OS=09032522&RS=09032522
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09032522
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130722
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 674 711 filed on Jul. 23 2012 entitled PLC BACKPLANE ANALYZER FOR FIELD FORENSICS AND INTRUSION DETECTION the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Computer systems have found numerous applications in the industrial automation environment and are employed ubiquitously throughout e.g. to control and or monitor the operation of a process machine tool device and the like. To facilitate control of a process etc. one or more controllers e.g. a programmable logic controller PLC are utilized with input output I O devices controlling operation of the process along with gathering process information e.g. measurements data values parameters variables metadata etc. pertaining to how the process is performing.

As highlighted by the STUXNET attack discovered in June 2010 process control operations and PLCs in particular have become a focus for malicious attack such as a computer worm virus or other malware. As a generalized overview the STUXNET attack involved a computer worm taking control of a PLC the PLC was controlled to effect destruction of a component and or apparatus while at the same time the PLC was reporting that the component apparatus was operating correctly. A contemporary approach for verification of PLC integrity can involve requesting content of the PLC firmware and or logic over a network whereby the integrity of the PLC can be remotely determined. In another approach traffic e.g. data commands etc. can be examined as it flows into and or out of a control network associated with the PLC. However as mentioned with regard to the STUXNET attack the firmware logic read back approach and the traffic on the control network can be subverted.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Various exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determining unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane. In an exemplary embodiment an analyzer system can be configured to compare operational data with baseline data wherein the operational data is captured for an operational state for which the baseline data has been previously captured. In another embodiment based at least in part upon the comparison a determination can be made regarding whether there is an anomaly between content of the operational data and content of the baseline data. In an embodiment the operational data and baseline data can be captured from a backplane.

Another exemplary embodiment comprises a method for determination of unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane is presented. The method comprising determining based at least on comparing operational data with baseline data whether there is an anomaly between content of the operational data and content of the baseline data wherein the operational data is captured for an operational state for which the baseline data has been previously captured. In an embodiment the operational data and the baseline data can be captured across a backplane.

A further exemplary embodiment for determination of unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane comprises a computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform acts comprising capturing baseline data and operational data wherein the operational data is captured for an operational state for which the baseline data has been previously captured the baseline data and the operational data being captured between a controller and at least one device in communication with the controller. In an embodiment the communication being via a backplane connecting the controller with the at least one device. In a further embodiment a determining operation based at least on comparing the operational data with the baseline data to determine whether there is an anomaly between content of the operational data and content of the baseline data.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to determination of unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

As noted above exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to determination of unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane. Control data instructions measurements and the like can be intercepted at a backplane where the backplane facilitates communication between a controller and at least one device. During interception of the control data etc. a copy of the control data can be made e.g. the original control data can be replicated to generate a copy of the original control data . The original control data can continue on to either the controller or the at least one device while the control data copy can be forwarded to an analyzer system to determine whether the control data contains unexpected content e.g. a data anomaly. The content of the copy of the control data can be compared with a previously captured baseline data content where the baseline data can be captured for a same operational state as the subsequently captured control data. Based on an anomaly being detected a notification of the anomaly can be generated to facilitate the controller at least one device etc. associated with a process being controlled by the controller to be placed in a safe operating state. In effect the content of a first control data instance can be compared with the content of a second control data instance to determine if there is a difference between the respective contents whereby the second control data instance can act as a template to the first control data instance. The various exemplary embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. A controller can be a PLC however the various aspects presented herein relate to any controller including a programmable automation controller PAC a remote terminal telemetry unit RTU etc.

Located in conjunction with controller and backplane is capture component . Capture component can be utilized to capture data information a command a command instruction traffic a control signal etc. hereinafter collectively referred to as data or command instruction being conveyed across backplane e.g. between controller and any of devices A N and along with facilitating conveyance of the data across the backplane capture component can also forward a copy of the data to an analyzer system . For example controller can generate a command instruction directed at device B with the command instruction being initially conveyed on data path between controller and capture component . Upon receipt of the command instruction at capture component a command instruction A can be forwarded by capture component to device B along data path . For example when a stream of data included in command instruction is received at capture component the sequence of content in the command instruction can effectively be transmitted uninterrupted as command instruction A to device B. Further upon receipt of the command instruction at capture component a replication of command instruction can be generated at capture component whereupon the command instruction copy B can be forwarded by capture component to analyzer system e.g. via data path . As further explained herein command instruction B can be analyzed at analyzer system to confirm that command instruction B and accordingly command instruction A comprises expected content. Expected content can include any of a command an instruction a measurement a setpoint a device address etc. as required to facilitate operation of one or more devices associated with controller in the industrial automation environment.

In the event of command instruction B comprising expected content components included in process monitoring configuration are considered to be operating correctly e.g. firmware or logic of controller has not been compromised.

In the event of command instruction B comprising unexpected content e.g. an unexpected command directed to device B at least one component included in process monitoring configuration can be considered to be operating incorrectly e.g. firmware or logic of controller has been compromised.

It is to be appreciated that while illustrates capture component being located adjacent to backplane e.g. attached to backplane capture component can be located in any suitable location to facilitate operation of the various embodiments presented herein. For example capture component can be co located incorporated into controller capture component can be co located incorporated into backplane capture component can be co located incorporated into any of devices A N etc. Further either of the capture component or the analyzer system can be interposed between the controller and the backplane thereby enabling either of the capture component or the analyzer system to act as a firewall or proxy device to regulate and or validate behavior of any of the controller the backplane devices A N etc. In an embodiment analyzer system can be connected directly to capture component to facilitate communication of data therebetween. In another embodiment analyzer system can be connected to capture component via the backplane whereby communication of data between capture component and the analyzer system is via backplane . In another embodiment capture component can be incorporated into analyzer system for example analyzer system may form part of a HMI or a GUI associated with the process control system e.g. the HMI GUI is operating on a machine whereby the machine is being controlled at least in part by controller which is in communication with capture component .

It is to be appreciated that while illustrates capture component being located between controller and backplane in a configuration backplane can be a shared backplane whereby a capture component e.g. capture component A can be connected to backplane and capture control data e.g. command instruction being transmitted between a controller e.g. controller A connected directly to the backplane . Rather than controller A being connected to backplane via a capture component e.g. capture component controller A can direct command instruction directly to a device e.g. any of devices A N whereby command instruction or return data A from the device to controller A can be captured by capture component A. Command instruction and or return data A can be replicated at capture component A and forwarded as data B to analysis system . Further in another embodiment a plurality of capture components can be utilized in a process control monitoring system whereby each capture component can be operating directly with one or more controllers with data captured by each capture component being amalgamated at one or more analyzer systems to facilitate system wide process wide monitoring in an industrial automation system.

Further while the various embodiments presented herein relate to capturing command instructions and or data being conveyed by backplane the various concepts can be extended to include capturing and analyzing command instructions and or data being conveyed to a controller and or any device A N via network . Any command instruction and or data being conveyed via network can be transmitted in conjunction with a network component where network component can be connected directly to backplane e.g. via a slot in a chassis associated with backplane or network component can be remotely connected. Capturing of data etc. being conveyed on a network associated with one or more components comprising system can supplement understanding of data e.g. command instruction or being captured on the backplane . For example controller may have received instructional data which originated via network component . Upon complying with the instructional data controller can generate a control instruction for any of devices A N. Alternatively controller may have been compromised and generates data for transmission over network . Analysis of the network based data can further understanding of how when etc. controller may have been compromised.

Turning briefly to a process monitoring configuration is illustrated according to an exemplary embodiment. In comparison with process monitoring configuration process monitoring configuration includes a capture component connected to a pair of configuration components A and B. Configuration components A and B can in an embodiment each operate as a protocol convertor s converting one or more protocols to a common protocol as explained further below. Configuration component A is connected via data path A to controller and configuration component B is connected via data path B to controller . A plurality of manufacturers e.g. original equipment manufacturers OEM s is available to provide control components e.g. controllers and for utilization in an industrial automation environment. Each manufacturer can utilize their own proprietary control software protocol where a first proprietary control software may not be able to operate in conjunction with a second proprietary control software. For example controller may be manufactured by a first OEM while controller may be manufactured by a second OEM whereby the first OEM operating system may be incompatible with the second OEM operating system. Thus one or more configuration components A and B can be incorporated into process monitoring configuration to facilitate conversion of a proprietary control language to a common control language which can be analyzed at analyzer system . For example configuration component A can be utilized to convert operating instructions and data formatted in accordance with the second OEM operating system to a common format suitable for analysis by analyzer system and configuration component B can be utilized to convert operating instructions and data formatted in accordance with the first OEM operating system to the common format suitable for analysis by analyzer system .

It is to be appreciated that while configuration components A and B are illustrated as being separate from capture component the various embodiments presented herein are not so limited and one or more configuration components e.g. any of configuration components A and or B can be located as required across process monitoring configurations and . For example the configuration component s can be incorporated into capture component or further incorporated into analyzer system etc. Furthermore while configuration components A and B are presented above facilitating conversion of data etc. between a plurality of proprietary control software protocols configuration components A and B can be configured in accordance with any situation requiring data to be converted from one protocol to another. For example configuration components A and B can be utilized to facilitate conversion from a first network protocol to a second network protocol to enable data to be transmitted between controller and network component .

Data received at analyzer system can be stored e.g. in data store s . As previously mentioned during initial configuration of process monitoring configuration controller can be operated in a number of states to facilitate collection of baseline data wherein the baseline data can act to identify communications e.g. command instruction B that occurs between controller and any other devices components comprising process monitoring configuration . Hence for each operational state of controller baseline data e.g. baseline data A N where N is a positive integer can be captured e.g. by capture component and stored in data store s . For each operational state baseline data can be captured hence in a first operational state baseline data A is captured in a second operational state baseline data B is captured in a third operational state baseline data C is captured in an Nth operational state baseline data N is captured etc. Each of the stored baseline data e.g. any of baseline data A N can be uniquely identified for example in accord with an operational state associated with the state of controller during capture of the baseline data. For example in an instance controller may be issuing a command to a heater associated with device A to increase a temperature of a furnace to a specific holding temperature and thus baseline data e.g. baseline data A captured during such an operational state of controller can be identified as furnace holding temperature . In another instance for example controller may be issuing a command to a motor associated with device N to increase a speed of rotation from a first rotational velocity to a second rotational velocity to facilitate achievement of a particular operation e.g. a milling operation and thus baseline data e.g. baseline data N captured during such an operational state of controller can be identified as milling speed . It is to be appreciated that the various operational states associated with controller and an industrial automation operation s are vast and any suitable identifier can be applied to a baseline data configuration where the identifier can be alphanumeric date time symbol etc. to facilitate identification and hence subsequent retrieval of a baseline data configuration e.g. any of baseline data A N . As previously mentioned content comprising baseline data A N can include any of a command an instruction a measurement a setpoint a device address etc. as required to facilitate operation of one or more devices associated with controller in the industrial automation environment .

Upon subsequent operation of one or more components comprising an industrial automation environment as one or more commands etc. are generated by or received at controller e.g. command instruction a replication of the one or more commands can be generated by capture component and forwarded to analyzer system e.g. capture component forwards a copy B of command instruction to analyzer system . Based upon the operational state of controller or other device in the process control configuration of the industrial automation environment each operational state can be identified to facilitate comparison of captured data with a baseline data as stored in datastore . Analyzer component can be utilized to facilitate comparison of data comprising an operational state e.g. command instruction B with baseline data e.g. baseline data C captured during the initial configuration of controller for a particular operational state. Hence in an exemplary operation command instruction B can be tagged with an identifier e.g. as a header file or the like indicating the operational state of controller during replication of command instruction . Analyzer component can review the command instruction B identifier and based thereon retrieve a corresponding baseline data file. In an example command instruction B was captured during an operation to increase a furnace temperature and hence command instruction B is tagged with an identifier furnace holding temperature and based thereon analyzer component can facilitate retrieval of the previously stored baseline data A which continuing the prior example also pertains to furnace holding temperature . It is to be appreciated that an instance of data e.g. a captured command instruction B any of baseline data A N can be tagged with any information to facilitate comparison of captured data with baseline data for example each data instance can also have a date timestamp associated therewith to facilitate identification by analyzer component or any other component of when a particular instance of data was captured e.g. to facilitate subsequent analysis e.g. diagnostic analysis forensic analysis etc. of operation of a particular device comprising an industrial control environment. Analysis of captured data e.g. command instruction B with baseline data can be based on any suitable technique e.g. an algorithm such as a distance based technique a support vector analysis cluster analysis etc. from which any anomaly of the captured data with the baseline data can be identified. Further analysis can include parsing of the backplane data displaying the backplane data e.g. on a display associated with analyzer system enabling an operator to filter the backplane data based on such techniques as sub module addressing message type data conversation between devices etc.

In an embodiment to facilitate expeditious analysis of content comprising captured data e.g. command instruction B versus data content of a baseline data e.g. any of baseline data A N once an anomaly in content has been identified analyzer component can include further logic to facilitate further understanding of the anomaly. For example based upon a particular anomaly being identified analyzer component includes logic e.g. artificial intelligence that can facilitate selection of a technique from a plurality of available techniques e.g. a statistical machine learning technique a Bayesian classification a neural network technique a distance based technique a similarity technique a Chi Squared classifier technique a support vector analysis a cluster analysis etc. that is best able to identify the anomaly one or more components or devices e.g. controller I O components A N associated with the anomaly etc. Based upon such technique selection identification and understanding of the anomaly can be expedited thereby facilitating timely understanding of an anomaly the source of the anomaly etc.

As illustrated in as data is captured for a particular operational state of controller e.g. command instruction B the data can be stored in datastore . For example as illustrated in datastore has stored therein captured data A N which have been captured in relation to one or more operational states of controller or other device in the process control configuration of the industrial automation environment. Storage of previously captured data A N can facilitate understanding of when an anomaly first occurred for example.

As previously mentioned in the event of command instruction B being determined by analyzer component to comprise one or more expected data components one or more components comprising process monitoring configuration can be considered to be operating correctly e.g. the firmware or the logic of controller has not been compromised.

In an alternative event where command instruction B is determined by analyzer component to include at least one instance of unexpected content e.g. an unexpected command directed to device B at least one component included in process monitoring configuration can be considered by analyzer component to be operating incorrectly e.g. the firmware or the logic of controller has been compromised. In such an instance analyzer component can initiate execution of an alarm or other suitable notification where the alarm can be generated by alarm component . In another instance operation of a device e.g. device B may have been compromised and hence data being directed to controller e.g. from device B may contain an anomaly indicating exploitation of the device.

Further a report component can be utilized to generate one or more reports relating to the operational performance of the one or more components included in the process control configuration of the industrial automation environment. Any suitable report can be generated such as a report identifying an instance of when an event of a component included in the process control configuration is deemed by analyzer component to be operating in a manner different to that defined in a baseline data configuration. In another embodiment a report can be generated reporting operation of the one or more components incorporated into process control configuration where the operation can include at least one instance of correct operation at least one instance of incorrect operation or combination thereof. The report can be in any suitable format e.g. include text information in graphical form an illustration a diagram of the industrial automation environment indicating one or more components devices machines etc. that are operating correctly incorrectly etc. A report can be generated in any suitable format e.g. printed out presented on a display device stored as digital data etc.

Analyzer system can further include an update component . In a typical process of operation the control commands instructions machine settings etc. for which one or more devices included in an automation environment are to operate may not change for a considerable amount of time. For example once a manufacturing line is up and running no changes in operation of the one or more devices included in the automation environment may be made for an extended period of time e.g. a day a week a month etc. However one or more of the devices may require an adjustment in operation. Continuing the previous example relating to furnace temperature a different alloy maybe being utilized in the manufacturing process e.g. the manufacturing process is a diecasting operation and hence a different holding temperature is required to be configured at the furnace to facilitate holding the new alloy at the required temperature. Accordingly controller can be configured to subsequently issue a command instruction which includes the new holding temperature. Thus in view of the new command instruction being generated a copy of the command instruction can be generated by capture component and forwarded for storage as a new baseline data at analyzer system . Updating of baseline data in data store can in an embodiment be an operation of replacing a first instance of baseline data pertaining to an operational state with a second instance of baseline data pertaining to the operational state. In another embodiment updating of baseline data in data store can be an operation of identifying a second instance of baseline data pertaining to an operational state with a different identifier to that utilized for a first instance of baseline data pertaining to the operational state. Other techniques to facilitate unique identification of a first file and a second file relating to an initial and subsequent operational state are known in the art and are not expanded upon herein. Update component can be utilized to facilitate storage of a new baseline data in datastore along with any required operations to facilitate utilization of an instance of baseline data associated with a new operational configuration.

As further illustrated in analyzer system can further include an authentication component . Authentication component can be utilized to facilitate any operation relating to authentication authorization and accounting AAA of operation of one or more components included in the process control configuration . For example analyzer system can be configured to operate with a particular AAA protocol whereby only a particular individual s is able to access operation of analyzer system . For example upon initialization of analyzer system the individual has to enter a username and password to facilitate access to the analyzer system . Numerous techniques are known in the art to facilitate AAA operation and are not expanded upon herein.

To facilitate operation of one or more of the components a processor can be utilized. In an embodiment each of components can be formed from a self contained electrical circuit e.g. an integrated circuit which a processor incorporated therein. Alternatively processor can execute instructions stored in datastore or other memory component . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components as presented above and as further described with reference to .

As previously mentioned in an embodiment capture component or capture component A and or analyzer system can operate in a forensic manner. Hence rather than capturing a command instruction or data which is to be compared against baseline data e.g. baseline data A N capture component can also capture data being conveyed on backplane and forward the data to the analyzer system . Thus data being conveyed on backplane can be captured and analyzed at analyzer system without any baseline data having to be previously stored in datastore .

As previously mentioned capture component can be utilized to replicate data conveyed across backplane e.g. between controller and any of devices A N and along with facilitating conveyance of the data etc. across the backplane capture component can also forward a copy of the data etc. to an analyzer system . With reference to capture component can intercept a command instruction generated by controller and directed for example at device B where the command instruction is to be initially conveyed on data path between controller and capture component . Upon receipt of the command instruction at capture component e.g. interception of command instruction by capture component the command instruction in the form of command instruction A can continue from capture component to device B along data path . Further upon receipt of the command instruction at capture component a copy of command instruction can be generated at capture component where the copy of command instruction can be generated by replication component e.g. command instruction copy B. Upon generation of the command instruction copy B the command instruction copy B can be forwarded by capture component to analyzer system for analysis storage of the command instruction copy B by analyzer system as previously described.

Capture component can further include an alarm component which can be configured to operate in conjunction with alarm component . For example alarm component can receive from alarm component via communication components and a notification that command instruction B has been determined to include unexpected data and hence one or more devices comprising the automation process associated with controller are deemed e.g. by analyzer system to have been compromised. Accordingly an alarm can be activated where such alarm can be an audible alarm a visual alarm etc. Further an alarm notification can be forwarded to controller to indicate to controller that an associated process e.g. operation of controller operation of any of devices A N etc. is deemed to have been compromised and appropriate action is to be implemented. Such action can be of any suitable type such as putting one or more devices associated with process control configuration into a safe operating mode terminating operation of the one or more devices terminating the process etc.

Capture component can further include a processor which can be configured to execute instructions stored in datastore or other memory component . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components as presented above and as further described with reference to . Further a removable memory can be incorporated into capture component to facilitate storage of any of baseline data A N and captured data A N whereby memory can be subsequently removed e.g. as part of a diagnostic operation.

While the various embodiments presented herein relate to capturing command instructions e.g. command instruction or and comparing them with baseline data e.g. baseline data A N to determine a data anomaly a capture component e.g. capture component or A can be utilized to control data being conveyed across a backplane e.g. backplane . A capture component can operate as an intrusion prevention system which for example in conjunction with analyzer system can capture data being generated by a controller e.g. controller prior to the data being received at any of devices A N. An intrusion component can be incorporated into capture component wherein the intrusion component can be configured to capture particular data prior to the data being transmitted across control system . For example analyzer component of analyzer system can receive an instruction to prevent data of a known configuration e.g. data associated with a known malicious attack from being transmitted from controller across the control system . Hence upon receipt of data having the identified configuration the data can be captured by intrusion component prior to transmission across process control system . Further existence of the potentially malicious data can be indicated by capture component to analyzer system e.g. a notification is sent the captured data is forwarded etc. and further alarm component can be executed to facilitate further indication of the potentially malicious data being determined to exist.

At the capture component can be incorporated into a process control and monitoring system. The capture component can be incorporated into the system at any suitable location to facilitate interception of data being conveyed between various components comprising an automation system which includes the process control and monitoring system. For example in an embodiment the capture component can be located on a backplane where the backplane is conveying data between a controller component and a device e.g. an I O device associated with operation of a machine engine tool etc. whereby the controller component is configured to control the machine etc. In another embodiment the capture component can be located in the controller component facilitating interception of data being generated and or received by the controller component.

At an analyzer system can be incorporated into the process control system whereby the analyzer system can be utilized to review and further diagnose data being transmitted between components associated with the backplane. In an embodiment the analyzer system can be connected directly to the capture component to facilitate communication of data therebetween. In another embodiment the analyzer system can be connected to the capture component via the backplane whereby communication of data between the capture component and the analyzer system is via the backplane. With reference to in another embodiment the capture component can be incorporated into the analyzer system for example the analyzer system may form part of a HMI or a GUI associated with the process control system e.g. the HMI GUI is operating on a machine whereby the machine is being controlled at least in part by the controller component which is in communication with the capture component.

At the controller can be stepped through a number of operational states e.g. furnace holding temperature milling speed etc. and data which is conveyed via the backplane to a device e.g. an I O device can be intercepted and a copy made of the data and subsequently a copy of the data can be forwarded to the analyzer system. As previously mentioned the copy of the data can act as a baseline identifying what content of the data is conveyed on the backplane during each operational state of the controller.

At each data copy can be stored at the analyzer system as baseline data for each operational state of the controller. As previously mentioned each baseline data can be uniquely identified to facilitate storage and subsequent retrieval of the baseline data. As further described herein the baseline data can act as a foundation against which data being conveyed on the backplane can be compared with during operation of the controller or other devices.

At the previously stored baseline data can be retrieved for comparison with the newly captured operational data for the operational state.

At based upon the comparison operation of the process associated with the controller component can be reviewed to ascertain whether the process is operating according to an expectation or the operational data contains data of which an equivalent data was not captured during the formation of the baseline data. In response to a determination that the operational data comprises the same content as the baseline data a determination can be made that the process associated with the controller is operating in an expected manner and the flow returns to in readiness for operational data for a subsequent operating state to be captured and analyzed.

In response to a determination at that the operational data has content different to that captured in the baseline data the flow can proceed to where a diagnosis operation can be performed to identify the difference between that operational data and the baseline data and further why the difference in content may have occurred.

At in association with determining that there is an anomaly in the content of the operational data versus the baseline data an alarm or similar notification can be generated. For example an alarm notification can be generated by the analyzer component with the alarm activating a light a speaker etc. Further the alarm notification can be forwarded to the controller to facilitate placing operation of the process associated with the controller into any of a safe operating state close the process down etc.

At further a report can be generated indicating operation of the controller and any devices associated with a process being controlled by the controller. The report can present data reflecting any of expected operation of the controller and associated process es an anomaly between received data for a particular operational state versus a baseline data or combination thereof. The report can be presented by any suitable technology such as in printed form displayed on a display device digitally stored etc.

At an initial comparison can be performed e.g. by an analyzer system between the content of newly received operational data in comparison with content of previously received baseline data.

At based on the determined anomaly one or more techniques can be selected from a plurality of available techniques e.g. distance based technique a support vector analysis cluster analysis etc. where a selected technique can facilitate identification of the anomaly one or more components or devices e.g. controller I O components A N associated with the anomaly etc. Selection of a technique can be based on any suitable logic such as artificial intelligence AI whereby the AI can review previously diagnosed anomaly instances and based thereon can generate knowledge with regard to which technique s in the plurality of available techniques is best suited in providing a diagnosis of the anomaly and other pertinent information e.g. compromised machine anomaly type extent of the anomaly etc. . Based upon such technique selection identification and understanding of the anomaly can be expedited thereby facilitating timely understanding of an anomaly the source of the anomaly etc.

At an algorithm or other methodology associated with the selected technique s can be applied to the operational data baseline data combination thereof etc. to facilitate understanding of the anomaly.

Referring now to a high level illustration of an exemplary computing device that can be used in accordance with the systems and methodologies disclosed herein is illustrated. For instance the computing device may be used in a system to determine unexpected and or malicious activity occurring between components communicatively coupled across a backplane. The computing device includes at least one processor that executes instructions that are stored in a memory . The instructions may be for instance instructions for implementing functionality described as being carried out by one or more components discussed above or instructions for implementing one or more of the methods described above. The processor may access the memory by way of a system bus . In addition to storing executable instructions the memory may also store operating parameters required operating parameters and so forth.

The computing device additionally includes a data store that is accessible by the processor by way of the system bus . The data store may include executable instructions operating parameters required operating parameters etc. The computing device also includes an input interface that allows external devices to communicate with the computing device . For instance the input interface may be used to receive instructions from an external computer device from a user etc. The computing device also includes an output interface that interfaces the computing device with one or more external devices. For example the computing device may display text images etc. by way of the output interface .

Additionally while illustrated as a single system it is to be understood that the computing device may be a distributed system. Thus for instance several devices may be in communication by way of a network connection and may collectively perform tasks described as being performed by the computing device .

As used herein the terms component and system are intended to encompass computer readable data storage that is configured with computer executable instructions that cause certain functionality to be performed when executed by a processor. The computer executable instructions may include a routine a function or the like. It is also to be understood that a component or system may be localized on a single device or distributed across several devices.

Various functions described herein can be implemented in hardware software or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. A computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable storage media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc BD where disks usually reproduce data magnetically and discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Further a propagated signal is not included within the scope of computer readable storage media. Computer readable media also includes communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A connection for instance can be a communication medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of communication medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above structures or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

