---

title: Secure email communication system
abstract: The present invention provides a method and system for securing a digital data stream. A first key of a first asymmetric key pair from a key store remote from a host node is received at the host node. A dynamically generated key is received at the host node, which is used to encipher the digital data stream. The dynamically generated key is enciphered with the first key of the first asymmetric key pair. The enciphered digital data stream and the enciphered dynamically generated key are stored remotely from the host node and the key store.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08737624&OS=08737624&RS=08737624
owner: MyMail Technology, LLC
number: 08737624
owner_city: San Angelo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130218
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 120 this application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 237 258 entitled Secure Email Communication System filed Sep. 24 2008 and naming Thomas Selgas and Jonathan Cutrer as inventors which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 974 776 entitled Electronic Transmission Privacy and Security Method filed Sep. 24 2007 and naming Thomas Selgas and Jonathan Cutrer as inventors the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present invention relates to ensuring transmission of data securely and privately and more particularly to the secure and private enciphering and storing of data.

Concerns about the security and privacy of data transmitted across the internet have grown in recent years due to the increased efforts from third parties to gain unauthorized access to the flow of private data. More and more personal details and private communications are subject to interception by advertisers market data collectors snoopers and hackers which ultimately result in disruption to the daily routine of individuals and businesses. Such disruptions include SPAM identity theft unwanted telemarketer phone calls and advertisement insertions into our personal communications. End users of the internet suffer the consequences of such disruptions by paying for the repair of affected systems.

To address these concerns the United States federal government has legislated security and privacy requirements. For example the Security Standards for the Protection of Electronic Protected Health Information commonly known as HIPAA calls for technical mechanisms to safeguard the integrity confidentiality and availability of private health information across the Internet and internal networks. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act FERPA requires institutions to protect private records pertaining to a student s education records. These laws and other similar state laws address the concern that private information which may be at times transmitted across the Internet for legitimate purposes should remain private and secured.

Private email providers however have changed their service agreements not to assist in maintaining the privacy and security of end users but to increasingly allow access to private communications. For example the terms of service agreements of many of today s free email service providers and popular internet service providers typically using standard non secure email solutions to provide email service have been rewritten to allow providers to scan and read every email messages for information which they in turn sell to advertisers to help keep their prices competitive. 

Another problem users of existing email solutions face is that they typically allow system administrators complete unfettered access to email accounts and credentials such as username and password which allows them to read edit and delete end users email messages without their knowledge. Further this unfettered access allows system administrators to send email messages as though they were from another. Thus whether the end user is a consumer worried about her personal financial information a lawyer needing to maintain privileged communications with a client a healthcare worker concerned about HIPAA privacy laws the concerns about internet security and privacy continue.

To address one or more of these problems in security and privacy of internet data enciphering methods have been utilized. Generally these methods utilize digital keys to encipher the contents of a message into a format that is undecipherable by third parties without the encipher key or a corresponding decipher key. Symmetric enciphering utilizes a single secret key used to encipher a message into CypherText gibberish and to decipher restore the message back to its original form. Symmetric key enciphering significantly reduces eavesdropping makes message modification nearly impossible and given the right key it is extremely difficult thwart. The problem with symmetric key enciphering is that both the sender and recipient share the same secret key which means that they have had to meet privately in order to share the secret key with one another. Because of this symmetric key enciphering is often not practical for an initial key exchange as the sender and recipient may be thousands of miles from one another. In general symmetric key enciphering is more secure than asymmetric key enciphering discussed below but lacks the practicality of an initial key exchange mechanism provided by asymmetric key enciphering.

Asymmetric key enciphering sometimes referred to as public key encryption utilizes a minimum of two unique keys. A public key and a private key key pair are used to encipher and decipher a message. When two sets of public and private keys are used where one set of keys belongs to the message sender and the other set of keys belongs to the message recipient a message can be enciphered then deciphered and the identities of the sender and recipient can be established. That is using asymmetric key enciphering not only secures the message but ensure the identities of the sender and recipient by using the private key of the sender to encipher the message and then taking that enciphered message and enciphering it again using the public key of the recipient which ensures that only the recipient can open the message by using his private key and then using the sender s public key to confirm that the message was in fact sent by the recipient.

Even with these enciphering methods existing email services secure and non secure still encounter inherent security risks caused by storing large amounts of email messages using the same encipher keys. Such a practice produces detectable repetitive patterns in the data and provides a mechanism for third parties to break in and gain access to email message data. What is needed is a system that reduces the risk of break in by eliminating repetitive pattern detection.

In view of the above there exists a need for a secure communication system that may make electronic information access storage and transmission safe from penetration or interception by unauthorized persons. Further a need exists for an easy to use email encipher system which may meet and exceed the regulatory standards set out by the federal government.

The present invention provides for a method and system for securing a digital data stream. In the invention a key of an asymmetric key pair is received at a host node from a key store and used to encipher a dynamically generated key. The dynamically generated key is also received at the host node and used to encipher the digital data stream.

The enciphered digital data stream and the enciphered dynamically generated key are stored remotely from the host node and the key store.

In the following discussion numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known elements have been illustrated in schematic or block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. Additionally for the most part specific details and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not considered necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are considered to be within the understanding of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

It is further noted that unless indicated otherwise all functions described herein may be performed in either hardware or as software instructions for enabling a computer to perform predetermined operations where the software instructions are embodied on a computer readable storage medium such as RAM a hard drive flash memory or other type of computer readable storage medium known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. In certain embodiments the predetermined operations of the computer are performed by a processor such as a computer or an electronic data processor in accordance with code such as computer program code software and in some embodiments integrated circuits that are coded to perform such functions.

It is to be understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art that the secure data method and system may be implemented in other systems besides electronic mail account systems described herein. For example banking account credit card account retail account or any other set of personal or organizational data systems that are intended to be securely maintained may be further secured by use of the secure data transmission processing and storage methods and apparatus herein described. The use of email messages as data is intended as illustrative of the present invention rather than limiting the apparatus and methods described herein.

Referring now to there is presented an embodiment for the architecture for a secure email system for securely and privately communicating storing and transmitting email messages. Secure email system may comprise at least three groups of servers an application host an email database host and a key store wherein each may comprise one or more computers capable of executing computer instructions embodied on computer readable storage medium. Each of the application host the email database host and the key store may act as a node for communicating data.

Further each group of servers may comprise one or more computers logically connected to one another by data connections. The application host may be coupled to the email database host by at least one private network connection . The application host may also be coupled to the key store by at least one private network connection . The application host may utilize at least one public network connection such as an internet connection which may connect the application host to a user through the internet or other computer or telecommunications network configured for communicating digital data streams. The user may comprise one or more subscribers who hold one or more email accounts which are hosted on the secure email system . The user may access the secure email system via the internet by a computer device cell phone device or other processor for receiving and handling digital data that would be known to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Application host may comprise a data stream port a key port and a database port which may act as a gateway for data passing through each respective port. In some embodiments the data stream port is connected to the internet and is capable of sending and receiving secure socket layer SSL and or Transport Layer Security TLS enciphered messages. Using SSL or TLS connections may allow one to determine that the connection between the application host and a server opposite the connection is correct and secure.

The key store and the email database host may be logically remote from application host in the sense that the key store and the email database host are each independently controlled operate autonomously and communicate using limited physical connections and protocols. It should be understood however that application host key store and the email database host may be physically separated but still be located all or in part at a single facility.

In some embodiments the functions performed by the application host and the email database host may be performed by a combined application host not shown . In some embodiments this implementation may not be as secure as separating the email database host from the internet connection by the private network connection .

Referring now to there is presented a schematic diagram of at least one embodiment of the application host . Data stream port may be coupled to a control node . The control node may determine whether an encipher or a decipher key is required from the key store . Coupled to the control node a one way module may pass a portion of an incoming message to the key store in order to acquire a desired key.

After acquiring a key from the key store an initial validation module may check an incoming message from data stream port for signs of invalidity using decision modules . In some embodiments the incoming message on data stream port may in part comprise one or more user credentials such as a combination of a user id a user password or a password indicia of the user password . In other embodiments credentials of the user may include other data that would be known by a person of ordinary skill in the art to be used to access secure data such as biometrics RFID physical or electronic keys or other alphanumeric and symbolic combinations.

Decision modules may include for example checks for an invalid source internet protocol IP address an illegal connection an unmatched domain IP address pair an unhosted domain an excessive length or file size of the message system wide black listed email addresses and an invalid recipient identification. If any of decision modules are triggered a corresponding one of response modules may be triggered. In some embodiments response modules may delete the incoming message . In some embodiments one or more of response modules may reply to the sender of the message with an error report. It should be noted that although four decision modules are illustrated in initial validation module a greater or lesser quantity may be used.

In the illustrated embodiment the message is shown as having successfully passed through initial validation module and may await screening by guard module which may be logically coupled to initial validation module . Message may comprise an email header information not shown which may contain a subject line a sender s email address and other information needed to transport the message across the network to its intended recipient. Guard module may comprise decision modules which may determine the disposition of incoming messages such as message and trigger a corresponding one of response modules 

Referring now to there is shown an illustration of the operations of the guard module . The decision modules may comprise checks for the message sender s identity against a black list and a white list of the user . For example decision module may check a message sender s identity against the black list which indicates a sender to be blocked which triggers response module to reject the associated message in the event of a match. In some embodiments the response module may include instructions to discard the blacklisted message. As a further example decision module may check a message sender s identity against the white list which indicates a sender to be allowed which triggers response module to either allow the message to pass or to hold the associated message and request sender identity verification depending on whether there is a match. It should be noted that although two decision modules are illustrated in guard module a greater or lesser quantity may be used.

In at least one embodiment the guard module may work by using a send self authentication mechanism that adds legitimate email addresses to the white list of the user and illegitimate email addresses to the blacklist and yet to be identified addresses to a holding box not shown which is accessible by each email recipient through a secure web browser interface. The guard module may be configurable to allow the user to control which senders may be accepted as legitimate. The user may add a sender identified by an email address to the white list . In some cases a challenge and response protocol may be configured to automatically add a sender email address to the white list pending a challenge and response. This may allow for senders to be authenticated either manually by the user or by passing the challenge response protocol.

In some embodiments a challenge and response protocol may request from a sender a response to verify the identity of the sender. A message such as an email message may be sent to the sender which requires a response such as a separate email message or a CAPTCHA response.

Messages from senders who fail to respond may be held in a non authenticated sender storage space not shown of the user mail account. The storage space may be hosted in the email database host as shown in . These unauthenticated sender messages may be held in this storage space until a change of status event occurs such as the message sender authenticates him or herself the intended mail recipient the user accepts or rejects the unauthenticated message the message is deleted after a period of aging like 15 days the user mail box space is full and older unauthenticated messages are deleted as a result of a system policy or the sender fails to authenticate himself according to the challenge response protocol after several attempts. This list of reasons that an unauthenticated message is removed from a separate storage space of the user is not intended as exhaustive.

The guard module may include a blacklisting feature. This feature may immediately terminate any attempted mail delivery to a recipient from an email address listed in the blacklist of the user . In some embodiments the user may manually add the email address of an unauthenticated sender to the black list . A requirement that designation of a sender to the blacklist is manual may be a safety feature in the secure email system which may prevent loss of possibly valid messages.

Referring again to message is shown as having successfully passed through the guard module and is awaiting compression by a compression module which is logically coupled to the guard module . In some embodiments the guard module may have authenticated the sender of message formerly message . The compression module may comprise for example a Lempel Ziv compression algorithm or a different compression algorithm known to a person of ordinary skill in the art and outputs a compressed message .

An encipher module may be logically coupled to the compression module to accept and encipher the output of the compression module . In some embodiments the encipher module may implement the Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithm which is a symmetric enciphering algorithm because it uses the same key for enciphering as is used for deciphering. In some embodiments 256 bit encipher may be used. A person of ordinary skill would recognize that other encipher keys such as 128 bit and 192 bit may be used.

The encipher module may receive the compressed message from the compression module . The output of the encipher module may be coupled to the database port to output an enciphered message to the email database host . The enciphered message may comprise an enciphered message body portion and an enciphered header portion of at least some part of the header information of the message but may exclude at least a portion of header information not shown which may comprise information in plain text substantially necessary to transport the message across the internet to its intended recipient. The enciphered header portion may correspond to at least what are commonly known as the subject and from fields in an email message header. It may be advantageous to maintain only a minimal amount of information in header information and mask other information such as internet protocol IP addresses.

The encipher module may use a session key which may be dynamically generated by a dynamic key generation module . In some embodiments the key generation module may generate the session key by sampling a random number source which is coupled to the key generation module . In some embodiments the random number source may comprise a hardware random number source such as a hardware gamma decay apparatus which is undersampled in order to reduce the possibility of a correlation between subsequent samples. It is to be understood that other methods known by persons of ordinary skill in the art of random number generation may be utilized.

The application host additionally may comprise an encipher module which is also coupled to the key generation module and the encipher module to receive and enciphered session key thereby producing an enciphered session key . In some embodiments the encipher module may comprise an OpenSSL encipher module which implements an asymmetric encipher algorithm using a pair of keys one for enciphering and one for deciphering. The encipher module may output the enciphered session key to the email database host for storage along with the enciphered message . After the enciphered message and the enciphered session key are sent to the email database host for storage and stored remotely in some embodiments from the application host and the key store all copies of the session key and the enciphered session key may be deleted from the application host in order to reduce the likelihood of a key grab by an unauthorized party.

A key used by encipher module may be provided by the key store through key port . The key will be one of two keys in an asymmetric key pair which is correlated with the intended recipient of the message based on whether encipher module is enciphering the dynamically generated session key for storage in the email database host or deciphering the enciphered session key retrieved from the email database host which may be sent to the user s computer for display. In the case that the incoming message and the dynamically generated session key are to be enciphered for storage in the email database host the encipher key of a key pair correlated with the message recipient may be used. However in the case that the enciphered message and the enciphered session key are retrieved from storage in the email database host for decipher and display on the message recipient s computer the decipher key of the key pair correlated with the recipient may be used. In some embodiments the encipher modules and can perform both enciphering and deciphering.

In some embodiments key store may provide the key to application host in enciphered form. Thus in the illustrated embodiment application host may further comprise a decipher module coupled between the key port and the encipher module in order to the decipher key for use by encipher module . Decipher module typically uses the decipher key to perform the deciphering process on the key . The decipher key may be for example the decipher key of an asymmetric key pair used for communication between application host and key store if decipher module comprises an asymmetric decipher algorithm. Further the decipher key may be calculated from the password or other credentials of the user. It should be understood that for some asymmetric encipher and decipher algorithms the identification of one key of an asymmetric key pair as the encipher key and one as the decipher key is somewhat arbitrary if either key in the pair could be used for either role and the other used in the complementary role.

The application host may communicate the need for either an encipher key or a decipher key to the key store using output from control node which is coupled to data stream port . The control node may determine whether the incoming message addressed to a subscriber recipient is to be enciphered and stored for later retrieval by the recipient or whether the stored message is being retrieved by the recipient and is to be sent to the recipient for display on the recipient s computer. The control node can make this determination based on whether data received from the data stream port comprises an external message or user login session credentials of a subscriber such as the user . If the data incoming on data stream port comprises user login session credentials such as the password the control node may request a decipher key corresponding with the identity of the user .

In some embodiments the control node may receive a credential like the password from the user and may convert it to the password indicia for example a 32 bit hash result using a one way module coupled to control node . Control node may then pass the password indicia to the key store to identify the decipher key needed. In some embodiments the user s computer may perform a one way function on an input credential such as the password and send the password indicia rather than the password to the application host via the data stream port . Alternatively the control node may determine a recipient s identity from an incoming message to produce a user indicia not shown . This may then be passed to key store which identifies the key by correlating the incoming message with an encipher key that corresponds to the recipient user s identity as reflected in the user indicia . In other embodiments other credentials of the user may be utilized to generate an indicia for accessing the keys of the user stored in the key store .

The key store which is coupled to application host may operate autonomously from the application host and may communicate with application host through a monitored limited functionality data channel that is controlled at both ends by the respective operating systems of key store and application host . Thus key store may be a peer of application host rather than being subject to control by application host . This arrangement may allow key store to maintain an independently secure operation in the event that application host is compromised by an outside party via data stream port .

The key store may further comprise a Representation State Transfer REST web service with a command link interface. Access to key store may be restricted to the source IP addresses of the application host through one or more valid credentials.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the key store may comprise an encipher module which may perform the complementary cryptographic process for the decipher module in application host and uses encipher key which may be the complementary encipher key to decipher key . The encipher module may further comprise a dynamic row secrets key generator which may generate a key store dynamic row secret DRS for the key store . The key store DRS may be used to encipher a public encipher key and enciphered private decipher key of the user . This complementary cryptographic process may include enciphering the key store DRS . For embodiments employing asymmetric encipher among encipher modules and encipher key may be the other one of an asymmetric key pair that includes decipher key .

Referring to the key store may further comprise a paired key list . The paired key list may comprise a list of user entries corresponding to each of multiple subscribing users. The paired key list may be stored on an enciphered MySQL database on key store . When new mail for the user arrives at the application host a request is made by the application host to the key store for key data of the user . Such a request may occur at login of the user when the user access the mail of the user by Webmail or POP3 for example.

In some embodiments the key store may be configured to communicate with a Key Signing Authority KSA as shown in in order to generate the key pair comprising the public encipher key and the private encipher key for the user . Generating the key pair may include taking credentials of the user such as the user id and the password and processing them through a hardware random number generated algorithm to create the public encipher key. The key store may initiate a key signing request to the KSA. The KSA may sign the key signing request using the key signing authority s signing key and certificate which may result in the creation of the private decipher key of the user. The private decipher key of the user may be returned to the key store . The private encipher key may be encrypted for storage using the password of the user .

In the illustrated embodiment the user entry may comprise data relating to the user such as user identity indicia user password indicia and an asymmetric key pair which comprises a public encipher key and a private decipher key of the user . The key pair may have been generated using the KSA as described above. The user entry may comprise equivalent information blocks for a different user. Thus when the control node sends the identity indicia not shown the key store may match this information with the user identity indicia select the encipher key and send it through the encipher module to the key port to become the key . Alternatively when the control node sends the password indicia not shown the key store may match this information with password indicia select decipher key and sends it through the encipher module to the key port to become the key .

Referring now to the email database host which may also be coupled to application host may operate autonomously from the application host and communicate with the application host through a monitored limited functionality data channel that is controlled at both ends by the respective operating systems of the email database host and application host . Thus the email database host may be a peer of application host rather than being subject to control by the application host . This arrangement allows the email database host to maintain an independently secure operation in the event that the application host is compromised by an outside party via the data stream port .

After the user is authenticated on the email database host a secure socket layer SSL may be opened between the email database host and the application host . The email database host may assign the dedicated data stream port to the application host and all information passing through this port is enciphered.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the email database host may comprise message database which stores the enciphered message and enciphered session key for later retrieval by the user . The enciphered message and the enciphered session key may be associated in database so that when the enciphered message is retrieved the enciphered session key is also retrieved. The enciphered message and the enciphered session key may be contained within the same file or may be stored separately and associated using relational aspects of the message database .

On the email database host the enciphered message may be stored in a database format by default. A file system format for data storage may be available to the administrator if desired. The enciphered session key may serve as the fingerprint signature for the enciphered message . Typically the message not shown may contain the header information not shown needed to send the enciphered message through the internet. The header information may remain un enciphered and in plain text in order for the enciphered session key and the enciphered message to propagate through the internet. The enciphered message may be shredded into four 256 bit AES enciphered blocks and then base encoded in the database. These 4 blocks are tied to the base encoded enciphered session key and plain text mail header information.

In one embodiment the email database host may further comprise RAID 5 or RAID 6 disk arrays for redundant fault tolerant data storage. The email database host could then be configured to always maintain a redundant fault tolerant copy of the stored data. This practice may allow current data to remain synchronized with any copy of the stored data and prevent deleted messages from reappearing and causing unexpected or unwanted consequences.

Referring again to and retrieval of enciphered message for display on a recipient user s computer may involve substantially the reverse of at least portions of the storage process. Upon the control node of application host receiving user login credentials and a request to transmit the enciphered message for display the decipher key may be obtained from the key store . Using the decipher key the decipher module may decipher the decipher key producing the key one of a pair of asymmetric keys. Decipher key may be comprised of the password or the password indicia of the user . The enciphered message and the enciphered session key may be sent from the email database host where it may have been stored remotely previously to the application host through the database port . The enciphered message may go to the encipher module and the enciphered session key may go to encipher module . The encipher module may use key to decipher enciphered session key into the session key . The encipher module may use the session key to decipher the enciphered message into compressed message . The compression module may decompress the compressed message into the message . In some embodiments the control node may encipher the message using SSL encipher for transmission to the recipient user.

In some embodiments the storage space as shown in on the email database host may comprise memory allocated for unauthenticated messages from senders. Such storage space may hold unauthenticated messages pending user approval pursuant to a system policy. The unauthenticated messages may be stored in enciphered format.

Referring now to there is shown a flow diagram showing the operations performed in at least one embodiment of a method for securing data on the secure email system . In operation the secure email system may provision an account for the user which may include creating a unique email address generating a key pair comprising a public encipher key and private decipher key pair and creating a file on the secure email system . The key pair may be one or more of a pair of asymmetric keys for enciphering or deciphering data. The key pair may be further secured with a Dynamic Row Secret created by a random number generator algorithm one or more user credentials and a public encipher key of the key store. The key pair which may be enciphered may be stored in the remote key store along with the DRS which may also be enciphered using the public encipher key of the key store.

In operation the application database host may receive the user email address and password at a login screen. The application database host may test the domain to determine if it is active test the account to determine if it is active test the account to determine whether it is an active plan and test the user password against a stored MD5 hash of the user password. Upon a successful login the application host may initiate the user session allowing the user to access data stored in the secure data system .

The application host may transmit an Inbox view to the user as an interface to the secure data system. The Inbox view may be transmitted over a secure internet connection over phone lines over a wireless network or by any means that would be obvious to a person of ordinary skill.

In operation the application host may request and retrieve from the key store through a private SSL connection the private decipher key of the user. The private decipher key may be in an enciphered form along with an enciphered DRS. The credentials of the user such as the user id password and a userid may be utilized to access the keys of the user stored in the key store. The userid may be a variable calculated from one or more credentials of the user. In some embodiments the userid may be calculated from the email address of the user.

In operation the application data host may decipher the keys of the user. In some embodiments the enciphered key data DRS of the user may be deciphered using the public decipher key of the key store The enciphered private decipher key of the user may be deciphered using the key data DRS of the user and the password of the user. The private decipher key may be returned to the application host.

In operation secure data associated with the user may be retrieved at the request of the user. The user may access messages containing secure data through the Inbox view or in other manners that are obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art. Messages may comprise email messages received from other entities or other forms of received data. The application host may request data from the email database host comprising enciphered message data and an enciphered message DRS.

In operation the application host may base64 decode the enciphered message DRS and decipher the message DRS using the private decipher key of the user.

In operation the application host may base64 decode the enciphered message and decipher the message using the message DRS producing a compressed message that is un enciphered. The compressed message may be decompressed producing an uncompressed and un enciphered message. In operation the application host may transmit the message to the user according to the requesting process.

Referring now to there is presented a flow chart for operations in at least one embodiment for a method for storing data on the secure email system . It assumed that operations provisioning an account from a user and initiating a user session be performed in the same way as operations and as described for .

It should be understood that in other embodiments the operations and may not be necessary for the performance of the operations illustrated in . For example an incoming email message may be stored on the secure email system while the user is not logged into the application data host. The incoming message may comprise a message sent to the user or a message that is stored by the user such as storing a copy of a sent message from the user to a recipient.

In operation the application data host may receive an incoming message from an internet connection or other public connection where the message is addressed to the user. The application data host may calculate a userid of the user based on the email address of the user.

In operation the application data host may request a private encipher key of the user from the remote key store through a private SSL connection. The key store may retrieve key data comprising enciphered keys of the user and the enciphered key data DRS of the user. The enciphered keys may be one or more of a pair of asymmetric keys for enciphering or deciphering data. The application host may utilize the userid and other credentials of the user to make the request.

In operation the key store may decipher the key data DRS using the public decipher key of the key store. The key data is deciphered using the DRS producing the public encipher key and the enciphered private encipher key of the user. In some embodiments the enciphered private encipher key is deciphered using a user s credential such as his password.

In operation the application host may generate a new message DRS for the message to be stored. The message data may be compressed. In some embodiments the message data may be compressed using gzip compression to eliminate text patterns.

In operation the compressed message data may be enciphered using the message DRS and base64 encoded. The message DRS may be enciphered using the private encipher key of the user and base64 encoded. In operation the enciphered message and message DRS may be transmitted from the application host and stored remotely in the email database host.

Having thus described the present invention by reference to certain of its preferred embodiments it is noted that the embodiments disclosed are illustrative rather than limiting in nature and that a wide range of variations modifications changes and substitutions are contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the present invention may be employed without a corresponding use of the other features. Many such variations and modifications may be considered desirable by those skilled in the art based upon a review of the foregoing description of preferred embodiments. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the invention.

