---

title: Mooring cleat with open design for non-threaded entry
abstract: A mooring cleat with open design for restraining a line and for attaching a free end of the line, the mooring cleat having an overlapping horn design with an angled slot that allows a line/rope into the device at any desired position along the line, wherein the cleat restrains the line against static pull in nearly any three-dimensional direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376171&OS=09376171&RS=09376171
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09376171
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131216
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a mooring cleat with open design for restraining a line and for attaching a free end of the line the mooring cleat having an overlapping horn design with an angled slot that allows a line rope into the device at any desired position along the line wherein the cleat restrains the line against static pull in nearly any three dimensional direction.

Mooring fittings can be fabricated from many different materials and may take many different forms. These fittings guide and secure lines ropes for vessels during different types of operations such as mooring anchoring towing rafting and servicing etc. is a prior art illustration of known mooring chock devices and . Chock devices are typically used as feed through devices for lines which are then fed to another device for fixed attachment. Chock for example includes a closed loop hole through which a line is threaded. Depending on the length of the line this process can be time consuming. Chocks and each includes an opening that allows any part of the line to be placed within the restraint area so that the entire line does not have to be threaded through the device thereby saving time. However with designs similar to chock the line may escape the device when there is vertical movement via the opening . The chock embodiment which includes a slanted opening shown clearly in the top view section of is successful at preventing the line from escaping in the vertical direction.

While chock fittings are available and can be used for restraining in the vertical direction there is a need for a device that accomplishes both the attachment of the free bitter end and restraint of the line without the need to feed the line through. The installation of multiple fittings increases the complexity and cost associated with deck fittings. Installing both cleats and chocks precludes installation of a single fitting in an optimum location such as on centerlines or amidships.

In one aspect the invention is a mooring cleat with open design for restraining a line rope and for attaching a free end of the line rope. The mooring cleat has an elongated base plate and a first horn extending vertically from the elongated base plate. The first horn has a first substantially cylindrical bottom portion extending vertically from the elongated base and a first elongated top portion attached to the first substantially cylindrical bottom portion. The first elongated top portion has a front end and a rear end and the first elongated top portion extends parallel to a longitudinal axis X. The mooring cleat also includes a second horn extending vertically from the elongated base plate the second horn having a second substantially cylindrical bottom portion extending vertically from the elongated base. The second elongated top portion is attached to the second substantially cylindrical bottom portion the second elongated top portion having a front end and a rear end. The second elongated top portion extends parallel to the longitudinal axis X wherein the first elongated top portion and the second elongated top portion extend towards each other so that respective front ends of the first elongated top portion and the second elongated top portion overlap in a non contacting manner having an angled slot therebetween.

In another aspect the invention is a boat having a hull body with a gunwale. In this aspect the boat also includes a mooring cleat with open design for restraining a line and for attaching a free end of the line. The mooring cleat is attached at the gunwale. The mooring cleat has an elongated base plate and a first horn extending vertically from the elongated base plate. The first horn has a first substantially cylindrical bottom portion extending vertically from the elongated base and a first elongated top portion attached to the first substantially cylindrical bottom portion. The first elongated top portion has a front end and a rear end and the first elongated top portion extends parallel to a longitudinal axis X. The mooring cleat also includes a second horn extending vertically from the elongated base plate the second horn having a second substantially cylindrical bottom portion extending vertically from the elongated base. The second elongated top portion is attached to the second substantially cylindrical bottom portion the second elongated top portion having a front end and a rear end. The second elongated top portion extends parallel to the longitudinal axis X wherein the first elongated top portion and the second elongated top portion extend towards each other so that respective front ends of the first elongated top portion and the second elongated top portion overlap in a non contacting manner having an angled slot therebetween

Returning to according to an embodiment of the invention the elongated base plate may be multilayered. The base plate may have a first substantially planar layer and a second layer above the first substantially planar layer. The second layer may be attached to the first layer by known attachment means or methods such as by brazing soldering adhesive bonding diffusion bonding thermal bonding or the like or by using mechanical agents such as bolts screws or the like. As shown the second layer may be integrally formed with each of the first substantially cylindrical bottom portion and the second substantially bottom cylindrical portion .

Returning to the side view illustration of as shown the cleat includes an opening which may be used as a fairlead. As seen from the side view the combination of the substantially concave shape of the first and second substantially cylindrical bottom portions the elongated base plate and the overlapping first and second elongated top portions produces the opening which from the side view is a closed loop opening. Essentially the closed loop side view is the view seen by a line threaded into the opening . As shown the line is oriented so that it is directed into the page perpendicular to the surface of the page. is a perspective illustration showing the line within the opening which because of the overlapping top portions is essentially a closed loop with respect to the orientation of line . Thus the overlapping horn design allows a line in the orientation of line passing thorough the cleat to be restrained against a static pull in nearly any three dimensional direction. It should be noted that the only way for a line to be released is if the source of tension follows an arc in a vertical plane that is in alignment with the slot between the horns which would allow the line to escape.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

