---

title: System and method for permitting recordation of voice transmissions among group members of a communication group of wireless communication devices
abstract: The disclosure is directed to recording voice data transmissions between mobile communication devices. An embodiment of the disclosure receives, at a first mobile communication device, an indication that a subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded by at least one other mobile communication device, and transmits, from the first mobile communication device, an indication to said at least one other mobile communication device that the subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded. Another embodiment receives an indication from at least one other mobile communication device that a subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded by said mobile communication device, and if the received indication indicates that the subsequent voice transmission segment may be recorded, records at least a portion of the subsequent voice transmission segment, and stores the recorded portion in a memory associated with said mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137346&OS=09137346&RS=09137346
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09137346
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130206
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 472 045 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERMITTING RECORDATION OF VOICE TRANSMISSIONS AMONG GROUP MEMBERS OF A COMMUNICATION GROUP OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed May 15 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 738 059 and assigned to QUALCOMM INCORPORATED which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 486 886 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERMITTING RECORDATION OF VOICE TRANSMISSIONS AMONG GROUP MEMBERS OF A COMMUNICATION GROUP OF WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES filed Jun. 18 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 195 213 and assigned to QUALCOMM INCORPORATED.

The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for recording voice transmissions between members of a communicating group of wireless telecommunication devices.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers there exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions once the button is released. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor.

In many cases it would be desirable for members of a PTT group to record part or all of a PTT session. For example it may be more convenient for members to record important details of a session by recording the session rather than writing down the salient details during the course of a conversation. In many cases it may not be possible for a member to write for example if the member is engaged in other activities. In existing PTT systems however it is difficult or not possible to record parts of a communication session. Furthermore if a participant needs to exit a PTT session the participant must later contact one of the other participants to review the content of the session.

In other cases voice communications may only be recorded via a voice messaging system. Such as system requires intervention by a centrally available voice messaging system. Visual voice mail requires a server for the user to pull down a file. The voice mail messages must be recorded and saved to the server.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method that may obtain the desired permissions to record part or all of a PTT session and for a wireless device member of a group the session to record the session. It would further be advantageous for the session to be recorded and stored locally such that a centrally accessible server is not required.

Briefly described the present invention includes a system method computer readable product and wireless communication device that allows a member of a PTT group to receive indications from at least one other mobile communication device that a current conversation or talk spurt may be recorded. The member may further record or receive the recorded conversation or talk spurt on the device and store the recorded conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback.

In one embodiment a member of a PTT group talker may indicate that the next talk spurt is available for saving by other members of the PTT group targets by pressing the PTT button. The talker may continue to speak to the PTT group including content comprising information that may be desirable for recording. The target devices may hear the PTT voice in real time as normally heard and may further be presented the option of recording or saving the talk spurt for later playback as a voice sticky note. Optionally the voice sticky note may be allowed to be forwarded to other PTT users or internet portals and stored on a server.

In a further embodiment the method for recording a talk spurt may further include implicit or explicit permission to record the talk spurt. By having the talker mark a talk spurt as allowable to be saved the talker may provide implied permission to record the talk spurt.

In a further embodiment a verbal PTT conversation can be displayed as a chunk of spoken audio in a timeline with time stamp . Such visualization can have all PTT audio displayed in a chronological order and differentiates audio from each speaker by attributes such as color or positioning or the combination of several methods. The PTT user is then able to click on an audio chunk to replay and or archive an entire conversational exchange on the PTT system where that user is a participant.

In a further embodiment voice data transmissions between mobile communication devices may be recorded. An embodiment receives at a first mobile communication device an indication that a subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded by at least one other mobile communication device and transmits from the first mobile communication device an indication to said at least one other mobile communication device that the subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded. Another embodiment receives an indication from at least one other mobile communication device that a subsequent voice transmission segment may or may not be recorded by said mobile communication device and if the received indication indicates that the subsequent voice transmission segment may be recorded records at least a portion of the subsequent voice transmission segment and stores the recorded portion in a memory associated with said mobile communication device.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that a centrally accessible server is not required to implement the sticky voice note. Members of a PTT group may thus save important information that the talker is speaking e.g. phone numbers directions account numbers etc. for later playback. Targets may hear the talker s voice as it is being recorded and the resulting voice sticky note may be available locally without being stored and forwarded.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent after review of the Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description of the Invention and the Claims.

In this description the terms mobile communication device communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term application as used herein is intended to encompass executable and non executable software files raw data aggregated data patches and other code segments. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. The term group communication means point to point or point to multipoint communication effected in a real or virtual half duplex communication. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several views and the articles a and the includes plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

With reference to the figures in which like numerals represent like elements throughout illustrates one embodiment of the system for sharing group media among one or more wireless telecommunication devices in a PTT group such as the wireless telephone smart pager and personal digital assistant PDA with other wireless telecommunication devices across a wireless network . In the system each wireless telecommunication device is capable of selectively directly communicating across the wireless communication network with a target set of one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the plurality. For example the target set for mobile telephone can be all devices in the communication group or a subset thereof such as pager and PDA .

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone sends a flag to at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network to indicate that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication computer device can share this information with the set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or can also share is with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A data store shown here as file management server is also present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The direct communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual i.e. a full duplex channel is open but the device only broadcasts and receives in half duplex mode between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication computer device can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication computer device can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication computer device of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication computer device is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system includes at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that is a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices that communicate with each other in direct group communications across a wireless communication network the at least one wireless communication device configured to selectively send group directed media to other members of the communication group . At least one group communication computer device is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication computer device is further configured to selectively receive group directed media from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group and send the group directed media to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group for the sending wireless communication device.

The system can further include a data store in communication with the group communication computer device s with the group communication computer device configured to send group directed media to the data store as is further described herein. The data store configured to receive the group designated media from the wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the group directed media was sent to access the stored group directed media across the wireless communication network .

The group directed media can be graphic media such as pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like. The media can also be streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like . The group directed media can also be streaming media or an interactive session on another computer device on the wireless communication network such as a game hosted on data store or private bulletin board. For example participants in a game can chat via the group communication about the ongoing game. Also the group directed media could be half duplex video conferencing among members of the communication group wherein the picture of the speaker is broadcast to the other group members in substantial real time or in delay.

The size of these media files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a data store or file management server or other computer device to store the group directed media such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. The data store can be configured to automatically send the group directed media to each of the member wireless devices of the communication group upon establishing a communication link therewith. Alternatively in one embodiment if the group directed media is stored at the data store the group communication computer device or the data store can send a hyperlink to the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group that will provides a link to the stored group directed media at the data store . Upon receipt of the group directed media by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the group communication computer device can send to the wireless communication device sending the group directed media an acknowledgement that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the group directed media.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication computer device at the time of requesting the group directed media to be sent e.g. send a target list and thus the group communication device will send or store the group directed media to the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending group directed media the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication computer device can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device . In one embodiment the communication group computer device can filter the potential communication groups available.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send group directed media during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the group directed media can be sent independently of the group communication session.

The group communication server s are connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF is typically located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However all such direct group communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication computer device itself but the group communication computer device must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information on the group directed media to include a file preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment of the wireless device the computer platform also includes a direct communication interface that can open the direct communication channel from the wireless device. The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

The PTT Client is an application that offers access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Client includes all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Group Media Client . In addition to providing access to PTT services with the PTT Client the PTT Client preferably acts as an isolation layer between all PTT aware applications and the interface to the group communication computer device . In this embodiment the PTT Client maintains access to PTT services responds to group communication requests processes all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services processes all outgoing PTT requests collects and packages vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The Group Media Client is a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The Group Media Client provides access to group media services through an external interface in one embodiment being a separate API such as a Group Media Aware API. The Group Media Aware UI is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The Group Media Aware UI responds to user requests for group directed media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The Group Media Client services the requests from the user and informs the user the result of any group directed media request. The user can also have settings on the Group Media Client that specify how to handle an incoming notification that indicates there is a file to be downloaded from the file management server data store . For example the Group Media Client can elect to have the file download commence immediately or to allow the target user to be prompted to determine whether to download the file.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary mobile communication device and in particular the user interface for the device. The device typically includes a display that may comprise an LCD or OLED display. In some embodiments the display may include touch screen capability. The device may include a keypad that may be a standard phone keypad or in other embodiments a QWERTY keypad. The device may also include navigation buttons that may further comprise up down left and right keys for navigating through the display . The navigation keys may further comprise a selection or OK key to indicate the user s selection or acknowledgment of a particular function. The device may also include soft keys that are programmable and used to select the function as indicated in an area of display near the soft key.

As discussed above during the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may provide indication that a recording is taking place. Referring to in one embodiment the device may illuminate one or more buttons from keypad navigation buttons or OK key . The button s may illuminate steady in a particular color or may flash on off or in any other manner as configured in the device or by the user. Additionally and optionally the device may provide an indication of recording on display . For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress as indicated by . The mobile communications device may further provide an aural indication such as a periodic tone or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device.

In various embodiments a method computer readable product and wireless communication device is disclosed for enabling a member of a PTT group to receive an indication from at least one other member mobile communication device that a current conversation or talk spurt may be recorded. The member may further record the conversation or talk spurt or receive the recorded conversation or talk spurt that has been recorded by another device. The member device may then store the recorded conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback. The recordation may be stored at the remote data store group communication server or at any accessible location within the system .

As shown in the process of in one embodiment a member of a PTT group talker may indicate that a subsequent talk spurt is available for recording by other members of the PTT group targets by pressing the PTT button as shown at operation . Thus the device ID is transmitted as shown in operation and then permission is sent thereafter as shown at operation . The talker may continue to speak to the PTT group wherein the spoken content may include information that may be desirable for recording. The target devices may hear the PTT voice in real time while the talk spurt is being recorded. The target devices may further be presented the option of recording or saving the talk spurt for later playback as a voice sticky note. Optionally the voice sticky note may be allowed to be forwarded to other PTT users or internet portals and stored on a server such as data store .

In various embodiments the method for recording a talk spurt may further include implicit or explicit permission to record the talk spurt. By enabling the talker to mark a talk spurt as allowable to be saved the talker may provide implied permission to record the talk spurt. In other embodiments the talker may provide explicit permission to record the talk spurt.

The recording of a talk spurt may be initiated in a number of ways. For example a talker may desire to mark a particular point of a conversation as likely to contain important information for recording such as marking as starting point as shown at step . Thus in one embodiment the talker may indicate using the mobile communication device that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded. Such an indication may be provided by pressing the PTT button by pressing a Mark to record button by pressing a soft key assigned as a mark to record button and the like. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication devices in the group that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded and that other members of the PTT group may be provided an indication that the subsequent talk spurt may be recorded. The talker may also indicate that a subsequent portion of the current talk spurt may be recorded. That is while the talker is speaking and thereby transmitting a talk spurt the talker may press a mark to record button to indicate that the targets may start recording the current talk spurt from the point where the talker pressed the mark to record button.

The recording of a talk spurt may be terminated in a number of ways. For example a talker may desire to mark a particular point of a conversation as the endpoint of the recordable segment such as shown by the receipt of the endpoint from the user and transmission thereof as shown at operation . In one embodiment the talker may indicate using the mobile communication device that the recording of the talk spurt may be terminated. Such an indication may be provided by releasing the PTT button if pressing the PTT button was used to initiate the recording. Alternatively the recording may be terminated by pressing an End Recording button or by pressing a soft key assigned as an end recording button. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication device that the talk spurt should no longer be recorded and that other members of the PTT group may be provided an indication that the recording of the talk spurt may be terminated. Where an end recording button is used to indicate that the targets should stop recording the talker may indicate that the targets should stop recording during the current talk spurt. It is not necessary for the talker to permit the targets to continue recording until the end of the talk spurt.

It should be noted that the talker may indicate that multiple portions of a single talk spurt may be recorded by pressing mark to record and end recording buttons multiple times during the talk spurt. That is the talker may begin transmitting a talk spurt then press a mark to record button then press an end recording button then later in the same talk spurt press the mark to record button again to indicate that a second portion of the talk spurt may be recorded and so on.

Thus in one embodiment an indication of the recording is also provided at the device as shown in operation and then the voice segment is recorded as shown at operation . The recorded segment can also be transmitted from the device to other group members as shown at operation . The sending can be through a direct transmission of the record data through the group communication channel s or can be done independently therefrom such as through other voice and or data traffic channels.

In an embodiment the talker may choose to indicate that a talk spurt may be recorded but at a time different from the current time. For example the user may indicate that the next PTT session should be recorded. Alternatively the user may indicate that the recording may be initiated at a designated time.

In another embodiment rather than the talker indicating when the targets may record a talk spurt the talker may indicate when the targets may not record a talk spurt. In that way the talker may redact portions of his or her talk spurts or an entire talk spurt.

In another embodiment the user may specify specific target users within the PTT group. For example a member of a PTT group may be temporarily absent from the member s device. If the talker determines that a subsequent talk spurt should be made available for later playback by the absent member the talker may specify that a subsequent talk spurt should be recorded and moreover should be recorded on the absent member s device. In such a case it may be useful for the devices to automatically record a talk spurt when the talker has provided indication that the talk spurt may be recorded.

In an embodiment any member of the PTT group may request that a particular talk spurt be recorded wherein the requesting member is not the talker of the spurt. For example the member may desire to make a note of a particular piece of information spoken by the talker and may be temporarily unable to write down the information. The member may request that the talker repeat the information and record the subsequent talk spurt. The request may be indicated in a number of ways. For example such an indication may be provided by pressing the PTT button by pressing a request to record button by pressing a soft key assigned as a request to record button and the like. Such an action may provide an indication to the mobile communication device to transmit a request that the subsequent talk spurt be recorded. The request may be transmitted to the talker or in other cases to each member of the PTT group . Upon receipt of the request by the talker s device the talker s device may provide an indication that a request to record has been received. The talker s mobile communication device may request confirmation from the user as to whether the current talk spurt may be recorded. The device may provide on a user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the talker. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want the current conversation to be recorded A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the talker has provided permission to record the current talk spurt.

In various embodiments the request to record may be generated automatically. A variety of user interactions or device interactions may automatically generate the request. In one embodiment an automatic request may be generated when a user closes the mobile device during a PTT session. Such an action may indicate that the user is leaving the session and that the user may desire to save the rest of the session available for later playback. In another embodiment a user may configure a mobile device to automatically generate a request to record when an End button is pressed prior to the end of the PTT session.

In various legal jurisdictions it may be desirable to provide more explicit indication of the talker s agreement to record a talk spurt. Various means may be provided to enable such explicit indication. For example upon receiving an indication that the talker desires to mark the current conversation for recording the mobile communication device may request confirmation from the user as to whether the current talk spurt should be recorded. In one embodiment it may be desirable for the mobile communication device to receive two consecutive button presses before transmitting indications to other devices. In another embodiment the device may provide on a user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the talker. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want the current conversation to be recorded A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the talker has provided permission to record the current talk spurt. In further embodiments it may be desirable for each member of the PTT group to provide permission for the talk spurt to be recorded.

The talker may then transmit an indication to each member of the PTT group that the current talk spurt may be recorded. Each member of the PTT group upon receiving the indication may further record the conversation or talk spurt. The recording may occur automatically upon receipt of the indication or upon further indication provided by the target. The target device may not begin recording until the user provides further indication that a recording is desired.

In an embodiment the target device may provide indication that permission to record the current talk spurt was received. For example the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. The device may further provide on the user display an indication requesting further confirmation from the target. For example the device may indicate on the display Are you sure you want to record the current conversation A further press of the PTT OK or other button may then indicate that the target user has provided permission to record the current talk spurt.

In another embodiment the talker may be provided the capability to record the talk spurt on the talker s device and then transmit the recorded talk spurt to one or more member devices. The target devices may initially receive an indication that a recorded talk spurt is available. The target device upon further indication from the user may then receive the recorded talk spurt. In other embodiments the target device may automatically receive the recorded talk spurt upon receiving indication of the recorded spurt s availability. The member device may then store the received conversation or spurt in a local memory for later retrieval or automatic playback.

As mentioned the target device with appropriate permissions may record a current or subsequent talk spurt. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream representing the voice segment or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream. During the time period that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may further provide indication that the recording is taking place. In various embodiments the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. 

The recorded talk spurt may be saved locally in a memory of the mobile communication device. By saving the voice locally in the device the user may be provided immediate access to the recorded talk spurt. The term aural sticky note is used to describe such a recorded talk spurt in order to highlight the similarities to physical sticky notes. With a physical sticky note a person may write a note and physically attach the note to an appropriate object in the recipient s vicinity such as a desktop or a chair. By analogy an aural sticky note is an aural recording that resides on the target device and attaches to the device. In some embodiments the aural sticky note only resides on the target device or devices. The target user does not have to retrieve the aural sticky note on a server data store . Furthermore once the target user listens to and deletes the aural sticky note the note may be deleted from the target device and may no longer be available from any other source.

While the talk spurt is being recorded the talker may continue to speak to the PTT group wherein the spoken content may include information that may be desirable for recording. The target users may continue to listen to the talker s PTT voice in real time while the talk spurt is being record on the target device. In an embodiment upon completion of recording the user may be presented with the option of playing the sticky note immediately or saving the note for later playback. The options may be provided to the user immediately upon completion of the recording or the options may be provided upon completion of the PTT session.

In a further embodiment the user may be provided a further option to forward the voice sticky note to another PTT user. In this case the aural sticky note may be treated as a media entity and may be forwarded in a manner similar to forwarding a photo or other type of media file. Alternatively the user may be provided the option of forwarding the aural sticky note to another location for saving. For example the note may be forward to an internet portal and stored on a server such as data store .

The aural sticky note may be reproduced and played on the mobile communication device. The playing of the sticky note may be triggered by various actions. In one embodiment a device that holds at least one aural sticky note associated with the device may automatically play the sticky note when the mobile device is opened in cases where the device is a flip phone type of device. Other activation actions such as sliding open a keyboard protector or pressing any button to change the current device state from an inactive state to and active state may trigger the playing of the sticky note. In other embodiments the device may provide indication on its user interface that an aural sticky note is available. An LED indicator or other visual indication may be provided. In one embodiment a portion of the display may indicate that a sticky note is available for example by displaying New Sticky Note. 

In some embodiments a starting point for recording may be received in operation and transmitted to one or more devices in the PTT group . The talker may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may commence. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device or a software key may be assigned as a start to record key. Alternatively pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording may commence. Optionally the OK or PTT may be pressed continuously to record the voice segment and released to indicate that the recording should terminate. In one embodiment the recording may begin automatically at the time the talker indicates permission to record the voice segment. In other embodiments the recording may commence upon expiration of a predetermined delay.

In some embodiments an endpoint may be received in operation and transmitted to one or more devices in the communications group. The endpoint may indicate that the recording should terminate or indicate a time at which the recording should terminate. The talker may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording should terminate. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device which when pressed after previously being used to initiate a recording may now indicate that the recording should terminate. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a stop recording key. In other embodiments pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording should terminate after previously having been used to initiate a recording. In one embodiment if the OK or PTT is pressed continuously to record the voice segment the OK or PTT button may be released to indicate that the recording should terminate.

In operation the mobile communication device may provide an indication that a voice segment is being recorded. During the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. The device may further provide an indication to the talker of which targets are recording the voice segment.

In operation the device may record the voice segment. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream. The recorded talk spurt may be saved locally in a memory of the mobile communication device. At the user may additionally be provided an option to forward the recorded voice segment or voice sticky note to another PTT user.

In an embodiment if a target does not record a voice segment or even the whole conversation that target may later fetch the voice segment or conversation from a server. For instance while a group communication is in progress and the group arbitrator moderator or one or more participants have enabled recording of the conversation or portion thereof a given target might miss recording the conversation or portion thereof. In such cases group communication server is aware of the recording permission from the group arbitrator moderator or the group participant. Group communication server can use data store to buffer the conversation or portion thereof from the point the group arbitrator moderator or talker enables recording permission. This buffered content would then be available to all participants who have been granted recording permissions for the conversation or portion thereof.

In an embodiment the target participants can view the recording permission notifications on their respective devices and the timeline timestamp at which the recording permission was granted.

In an embodiment a given target may be aware of the start point and endpoint for recording the conversation or portion thereof but may have recorded less of the conversation or portion thereof than it was permitted. The target may wish to have more of the conversation or portion thereof recorded rather than just the portion the target actually recorded. In that case the target would be able to retrieve the unrecorded but authorized to be recorded portion of the conversation from the group communication server .

Specifically the target can specify a start point and or an endpoint within the recordable conversation or portion thereof indicating which portion of a recorded voice segment to fetch from group communication server . Once that portion of the voice segment is downloaded to the target the portion of the conversation recorded at the target is augmented with the recording from the server to create a new expanded voice note within the permissible scope of the recording. For example if a conversation is permitted to be recorded from a start time t to an end time t but a target only records from time t to time t the target could request that group communication server send it the voice segment s from time t to time t and or time t to time t. Once received at the target the target would add the voice segment from time t to time t and or time t to time t to its locally recorded voice segment s from time t to time t .

In operation a device that has received permission may indicate to the user that permission has been received. The device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. The user may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may commence. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device to indicate that the recording may commence. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a start recording key. In other embodiments pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording may commence. In one embodiment the OK or PTT button may be pressed continuously to record the voice segment.

In some embodiments the recording may begin automatically at the time the talker indicates approval to record the voice segment. In other embodiments the recording may commence upon expiration of a predetermined delay.

In operation the mobile communication device may commence recording the voice transmission segment. The recording may be implemented with various recording methods such as retaining the as received message stream or decoding the stream and simultaneously reproducing the audio on the device s earpiece as well as retaining the decoded stream.

In operation the device may provide an indication that a voice segment is being recorded. During the time that a talk spurt is being recorded the device may illuminate a button provide a visual indication on the device s user display provide an aural indication or provide other indications that may be configured by the user on the device. For example the device may indicate on the display Recording In Progress. 

Referring now to in some embodiments an endpoint may be received in operation . The endpoint may indicate that the recording may terminate or indicate a time at which the recording may terminate. The user may use one or more keys on the device to indicate that recording may terminate. In various embodiments a dedicated recording key may be provided on the device which when pressed after previously having been used to initiate a recording may now indicate that the recording should terminate. Alternatively a software key may be assigned as a stop recording key. Alternatively pressing an existing key such as OK or PTT may indicate that recording should terminate after previously having been used to initiate a recording. In one embodiment if the OK or PTT is pressed continuously to record the voice segment the OK or PTT button may be released to indicate that the recording should terminate.

In operation the device may terminate the recording. In operation the recording may be stored in a local memory of the device. However in some embodiments the voice data may be stored as the voice transmission is recorded and further storing action may not be necessary. In operation the user may be provided an option to delete the recording. The option may be provided at various points of the conversation. For example the user may be provided the option to delete upon terminating the recording process. In other embodiments the voice sticky note may be played at a later time and the user may be provided an option to delete during or after the sticky note is played. Alternatively the talker may set the time at which the recording should be deleted.

In yet another embodiment the talker may rescind the approval to record the talk spurt either during the recording of the talk spurt or after. Accordingly the received endpoint would be an indication that approval to record the talk spurt has been revoked. If the talk spurt has already been recorded then the indication would include an identification of the previous talk spurt and the target would automatically delete the identified recording. If the talk spurt is still in progress the target device would automatically terminate the recording and delete whatever portion thereof had already been stored.

In operation the user may additionally be provided an option to forward the recorded voice segment or voice sticky note to another PTT user or to a server or other destination.

In operation the recorded voice segment may be reproduced and played on the mobile communication device. As discussed above the playing of the sticky note may be triggered by various actions. In one embodiment a device that has at least one aural sticky note associated with the device may automatically play the sticky note when the mobile device is opened in cases where the device is a flip phone. Other activation actions such as sliding open a keyboard protector or pressing any button to change the current device state from inactive to active may trigger the playing of the sticky note.

In another embodiment of the invention a moderator may control the recording of a group call such as a conference call or a moderator controlled PTT group call. All participants of the group call would give the moderator permission to record the call and the moderator would decide which portions of the call to record. The participants could provide permission in whatever way is appropriate under the circumstances. For example oral permission may be sufficient or written permission may be required. Alternatively permission may be implied by a participant calling in to the group call or may be an explicit part of the calling in process.

When the moderator decides that a portion of a talk spurt or group call should be recorded the moderator may transmit an indication to the participants that they may record the call until they receive an indication to stop recording similar to and or . This may give the participants the option to record or it may cause them to record and stop recording automatically. Alternatively the moderator may transmit the indications to record and stop recording to a server and after the call provide a link to the recording to the call participants. In another alternative the moderator may record the call locally and transmit the recording to the participants over network .

Typically when a group communication server such as group communication server receives packets of audio and or video data from the participants of a group call it mixes the received data into a single stream of packet data which it sends to each participant. The stream may then be record as described above. However one or more group call participants may not wish to be recorded. In that case the group communication server may perform one of two alternatives. In the first alternative the group communication server generates two streams of packet data. One is for playing out at each participant s device and contains the combined audio and or video data received from each participant. The second stream contains only the audio and or video data from participants that have given permission to be recorded. The group communication server sends this stream to the call participants to record locally or to some other remote recording device.

In the second alternative the group communication server transmits the stream of packet data containing the combined audio and or video data received from each participant. However the stream also includes indications of which participants or which data segments may or may not be recorded by the target devices. The target devices will automatically be prevented from recording participants who have not given permission to be recorded or who have explicitly denied authorization to be recorded.

Once the talk spurts commence Client A begins a timestamp recording and Client B likewise begins a timestamp recording grouping the talk spurts or portions thereof in various chunks such as T T etc. The chunks in the timestamp of Client A and timestamp of Client B accordingly will match in this embodiment. Thus Client A could refer to chunk T on timestamp recording and Client B will be able to identify the same T chunk on timestamp recording . Alternately each client device could have its own timestamp criteria for PTT talk spurts. In this embodiment the verbal PTT conversation is displayed as each chunk of spoken audio in chronological order and can be differentiated to the user through different visual numbers colors position on a display the first phrase of the chunk as determined by a speech recognizer or the combination of several methods. After the PTT conversations are over the PTT call terminates.

During the call Client A Client B and Client C may display various status indicators regarding the call. Each client may display an indication of which clients are permitted to record the call a particular talk spurt or a portion of a talk spurt and which clients are recording them. For example Client A may display an indication that Client C is not recording and or is prohibited from recording and that Client B is recording. Likewise Client B may display an indication that Client C is not recording and or is prohibited from recording and that Client A is recording.

Further each of Client A Client B and Client C may display an indicator of which portion s of the call it has recorded. The indicator may be a progress bar of the call with recorded portions shown as green and unrecorded portions as red for example. The indicator could also be incorporated into timestamp recording and timestamp recording . In that case as an example chunks of the call such as T T etc. could indicate each talk spurt of the call and recorded chunks could be green and unrecorded chunks could be red. Where only a portion of the talk spurt indicated by a chunk has been recorded that portion of the chunk could be green and the rest red. Since Client C is not recording or has not been permitted to record the indicator of which portion s of the call it has recorded would be gray for example indicating that it is not recording.

Thus Client A and Client B are able to click on an audio chunk to replay it with the ability to scroll back in time to view older audio from the same conversation. In one embodiment the clients can save specific audio chunks such as T and forward the selected audio chunks either their own audio or the audio of another to another user or wireless communication device. This embodiment therefore gives the PTT the ability to archive an entire conversational exchange of a PTT communication session.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of the server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless communications device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof or other physical embodiment of logic. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other physical data storage media such as optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

