---

title: Integrated oil production and upgrading using molten alkali metal
abstract: A method that combines the oil retorting process (or other process needed to obtain/extract heavy oil or bitumen) with the process for upgrading these materials using sodium or other alkali metals. Specifically, the shale gas or other gases that are obtained from the retorting/extraction process may be introduced into the upgrading reactor and used to upgrade the oil feedstock. Also, the solid materials obtained from the reactor may be used as a fuel source, thereby providing the heat necessary for the retorting/extraction process. Other forms of integration are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09458385&OS=09458385&RS=09458385
owner: FIELD UPGRADING LIMITED
number: 09458385
owner_city: Calgary
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130712
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 671 228 filed Jul. 13 2012. This prior patent application is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FE0000408 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy National Energy Technology Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to a process for integrating a process for removing nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals from sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing shale oil bitumen or heavy oil with a process for forming the shale oil heavy oil bitumen. Such an integration of these two processes provides added efficiencies that are not otherwise available.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 916 984 which has been incorporated herein by reference has been published as United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0100874. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the disclosure of this published application. This published application will be referred to herein as the 874 application. 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 753 918 which has been incorporated herein by reference has been published as United States Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0140217. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the disclosure of this published application. This published application will be referred to herein as the 217 application. 

Both the 217 application and the 874 application teach the utilization of hydrocarbons such as methane to attach to radicals formed when an alkali metal such as sodium reacts with the heteroatoms or metals atoms contained within the feedstock. This use of hydrocarbons in the above recited applications replaces hydrogen gas which has traditionally been used when reacting sodium with oil. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 788 978 3 791 966 4 076 613 all disclose the use of hydrogen gas when sodium metal is reacted with oil.

However the use of hydrogen with sodium and oil has several disadvantages. One such disadvantage is that the hydrogen used in these sodium oil reactions is typically produced via the steam methane reforming process. This process is generally discouraged because during this process carbon dioxide a greenhouse gas is emitted. Thus alternative radical capping substances e.g. organic materials may be preferred over hydrogen.

When an alkali metal reacts with a petroleum feedstock and interacts with heteroatoms such as metals sulfur and nitrogen in the feedstock the metals heteroatoms etc. will be reduced to form the metals themselves as well as alkali metal sulfides and nitrides. During this reaction organic radicals may be formed which preferably are reacted with a substance other than the same organic molecule originally bonded to the heteroatom or with another feedstock molecule. If the radical reacts with the organic molecule originally bonded to the heteroatom undesirable coking may occur. Likewise if the radical reacts with another feedstock molecule undesirable polymerization may occur. For this reason an additional radical capping species such as methane etc. is used in the reaction.

It would be beneficial however if this process for upgrading the oil feedstock material using an alkali metal could be integrated with the process for forming the feedstock e.g. the process for extracting the heavy oil oil shale shale gas etc. Such integration could provide additional benefits and could result in increased efficiencies. Such an integration process is disclosed herein.

The present embodiments relate to a method for upgrading an oil feedstock using an alkali metal such as sodium as a means of removing nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals from the oil feedstock material. At the same time this upgrading process can be integrated with other processes used to obtain the oil feedstock thereby resulting in increased efficiencies.

The present embodiments relate to the use of radical capping substances or radical forming substances that will react with the oil feedstock in the presence of sodium or another alkali metal. These other radical forming substances may be more readily available than hydrogen. These other radical forming substances would not be reactive and would not provide any benefit without the sodium. By way of example such radical forming substances include methane ethane propane butane pentane hexane and their isomers. Other hydrocarbons such as octane or other carbon containing compounds containing one or more carbon atoms may also be used. The hydrocarbon may be a gas and may be comprised of a mixture of hydrocarbon gases such as natural gas or shale gas the gas produced by retorting oil shale .

In addition to the aforementioned radical capping substances other substances may be considered for example natural gas containing HS. If HS is in the natural gas more sodium may be required to obtain the same results since sodium reacts with the HS in the natural gas in addition to the reaction of sodium with the oil feedstock to form Hand sodium sulfide. Thus HS ultimately in the presence of sodium can provide hydrogen that can react with the radicals formed with heteroatom removal. Also ethene propene butane pentene hexane heptene octane and their isomers may be used. Additionally HS formed in the retort process or oil production process may be utilized for this purpose.

To improve productivity reduce overall emissions and improve overall process economics several opportunities exist to integrate the process of upgrading the oil feedstock with the process of extracting obtaining the feedstock itself. For example certain feedstocks such as heavy oil and shale oil also require heat during the extraction processing. This heat is used to promote the endothermic retorting reactions of in situ or surface retort operations. It has been found that the fuel needed for this heating process can be obtained as byproducts from the upgrading process. Thus in this manner integrating these two processes may create efficiencies not otherwise available. With regard to oil shale retorting is a process where the oil shale is heated directly or indirectly to temperature between 300 550 C. in an oxygen free environment . This retorting process transforms the kerogen contained within the shale rock into oil and gas. The retorting process may be conducted batchwise continuously on the surface above ground or underground at the location of the oil shale deposit. If combined with the upgrading process the upgrading process can provide the fuels necessary to provide the heat used in the retorting process.

Further certain feedstocks such as heavy oil require directed heating or heating water to produce steam for a steam assisted gravity drainage SAGD operation these processes can use the byproducts of the upgrading process as the fuel necessary to create the requisite heat. Thus integrating these two processes may create efficiencies.

Heavy oil production or bitumen production or shale oil production are considered separate from the upgrading and typically are performed at different locations maybe hundreds of miles apart. However the present embodiments promote efficiency by integrating these two processes.

As mentioned above methane hydrogen sulfide and shale gas and can serve as the radical capping agent needed when radicals are formed following reaction of an alkali metal with the feedstock. Gases such as methane hydrogen sulfide and shale gas are produced during the retorting processes as byproducts . Thus the gas formed during retorting can be used in the upgrading process if these processes are co located and integrated.

As oil sands or bitumen or heavy oil are heated directly or reacted using steam methane gas and hydrogen sulfide gas may form in the process. These gases may be fed into the upgrading process where the methane may serve directly as a radical capping material. The hydrogen sulfide in the presence of the alkali metal will produce a quantity of hydrogen gas and this in situ formed hydrogen may act as the radical capping agent. Thus the gases byproducts formed during the heating of bitumen heavy oil may be used in the upgrading process. There are advantages to using the gases formed in the extraction of heavy oil or oil sands or bitumen by feeding those gases into the alkali metal upgrading process. An additional advantage is that the hydrogen sulfide a poisonous gas is essentially converted to useful substances.

Similarly when retorting oil shale the gases formed may be used as radical capping agent in the upgrading process. An additional advantage is that often hydrogen sulfide is formed in the retorting process and the gases would require scrubbing of the hydrogen sulfide before the gases could be otherwise used. However since upgrading with alkali metal consumes the hydrogen sulfide the overall process becomes more efficient. For example normally the shale gas would require considerable processing to remove the hydrogen sulfide but this removal of the hydrogen sulfide occurs automatically in the upgrading process.

Other ways where the process integration is beneficial is where heat is required for the oil production process. This heat may be required for the generation of steam for a steam assisted gravity drain process or during the heating of heavy oil to reduce the viscosity. Following alkali metal upgrading and the dissolution of the alkali metal sulfide there is a resulting solid organic matter or portion which may be 1 10 of the starting oil weight. This matter may be used as a fuel to produce the requisite heat. These solids may also be used in part as a fuel source for the retort. In addition this matter may be fed in part or in whole back into the retort where a thermal cracking process may be assisted by the fine metals which may be present in the solid . Feeding the solids back into the retort can provide two benefits. First the overall liquid output can be increased. Second the fine metals in the organic matter increase the effectiveness of the retorting process by serving as a catalyst. By increasing the effectiveness the retort temperature may be reduced and the liquid yield may improve.

In the present embodiments the alkali metal sulfide formed during the upgrading process is regenerated electrochemically into sulfur and alkali metal using cells with ceramic membranes. The power required to operate the cells may be produced using a generator that co produces heat. This heat can also be used in part to provide the heat required for heavy oil or bitumen production or to heat a retort as outlined herein. Thus there are a variety of different ways in which the combining integration of these processes produces efficiencies.

The present embodiments relate to integrating the process for obtaining extracting an oil feedstock with a process for upgrading the oil feedstock using an alkali metal such as a molten alkali metal . In some embodiments the alkali metal may be sodium lithium potassium or alloys of these metals. The term oil feedstock refers to oil sources such as heavy oil bitumen and shale oil. Typically these oil feedstock materials are upgraded to remove sulfur nitrogen and heavy metals contained therein. However by integrating the upgrading process with the retorting or production process as described herein efficiencies may be achieved. As noted above typically these two processes are done separately and at locations hundreds of miles apart however by performing all of these processes at the same facility significant advantages may be obtained.

It should be noted that the upgrading process that is outlined herein is described at length in the 874 application and the 217 application. For purposes of brevity much of the descriptions regarding these upgrading processes will be omitted.

Referring now to a schematic drawing for a surface oil retorting process is illustrated. As shown by the retort receives oil shale which typically has been mined brought to the surface and crushed. The process for mining bringing the material to the surface and crushing the oil shale is not shown in but is known in the art. The retort also received heat from a combustion process . As the oil shale is heated in a substantially oxygen free environment the organic content within the material transforms converting to shale oil and shale gas .

The solids leaving the retort are referred to as spent shale . The spent shale may contain both organic and inorganic material and may be already warm e.g. warm from the heat that was added during the retort process . The spent shale may be fed into the combustion process as be consumed as fuel. An additional quantity of fuel may also be used in the combustion process . The fuel may consist in part of shale gas shale oil or other sources. An oxidizing gas typically air but may be another gas is fed into the combustion process to react with the spent shale and fuel . The solids leaving the combustion process have very little organic composition and are then suitable for various purposes such as building material or road material. These residual solids are referred to as shale ash . Often the retort and combustion are integrated for more efficient heat transfer from the combustion process to the retort .

In the specific example of sodium is the alkali metal. Of course other alkali metals could also be used such as lithium or potassium. There are several objectives of the upgrading process the primary objective is to remove sulfur nitrogen and metals from the shale oil . Another objective is to utilize the shale gas as the radical capping agent to cap radicals formed when the sodium reacts with the sulfur nitrogen and metals. Utilizing shale gas substantially if not entirely reduces the need for hydrogen which typically is used in upgrading processes. Another objective is to de sulfurize the shale gas which may contain hydrogen sulfide but will be free of hydrogen sulfide after flowing through the upgrading process which scavenges sulfur.

As shown in shale gas and shale oil are fed into an upgrading reactor as well as sodium metal . The sodium metal may be obtained from an electrolysis process as will be discussed herein thereby allowing the sodium metal to be consistently reused. As will be described herein hot gases from the power generator may be added to the upgrade reactor to facilitate the upgrading reaction. Additionally and or alternatively these hot gases from the power generator may also be added to the retort process .

The gas exiting the upgrading reactor is substantially sulfur free. This gas is referred to as desulfurized gas . This sulfur free gas may then be used in a power generation process e.g. it may be burned to provide electrical power as desired . Other gases may also be vented off as desired.

The solids and liquids from the upgrade reactor move to a solid liquid separator . In some embodiments this separator may comprise a filter or centrifuge hydrocyclone or another similar device that is designed to separate solid materials from liquid materials.

The liquids exiting the separator are substantially free of sulfur nitrogen and metals and normally would be suitable for feed to an oil refinery. These liquid materials may be referred to as the desulfurized oil product . The obtained solids contain organics sodium sulfide and the metals originally contained in the shale oil. To facilitate separation of the sulfides from the remaining solids they are fed to the solids pretreatment according to the 217 application. This pretreatment step may involve heating the solids to a temperature above 400 C. and preferably above 500 C. environment with low oxygen and water concentration until a weight loss occurs in the solids corresponding with an increase in the carbon to hydrogen ratio. The gas evolves from the solids pretreatment step that is mostly methane and can be fed either to power generation or to combustion .

Following the solids pretreatment the solids are fed to dissolution where the sodium sulfide dissolves cleanly from the solids. Suitable solvents include formamide methyl formamide dimethyl formamide acetamide methyl acetamide dimethyl acetamide ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 ethanediol 1 2 propanediol propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate diethyl carbonate N methyl pyrrolidone tetraethylene glycol dimethyl ether tetralglyme acetonitrile dimethyl sulfoxide liquid ammonia methyl amine methyl formamide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU . Following dissolution of the sodium sulfide the solids and liquids flow to a solid liquids separation . This separator may comprise any device that is capable of separating solids liquids including a filter or centrifuge hydrocyclone. The liquids flow to the electrolysis where sodium is electrochemically removed from the sulfide to form elemental sodium and elemental sulfur . This sodium may then be re used in the upgrade reactor as described above. The sulfur may then be sold on the open market to recuperate some costs.

The solids from the solid liquid separation in part may be fed back into the retort process . These solids have an organic content contained therein. This organic content is recovered back as shale oil or shale gas thereby saving costs by ensuring that as much of the organic material as possible is converted into usable shale oil or shale gas. Further any metals contained in the solids may be in their elemental states and may catalyze reactions in the retort . These metals may then be sent to the spent shale .

Additionally and or alternatively the solids from the solid liquid separation may be fed to the combustion process reducing the need for fuel. As noted above these solids may have some organic content that is combustable and may serve as the fuel. Thus the amount of fuel needed for the combustion process may be decreased.

Power needed for the electrolysis may come from offsite generation. However in other embodiments power needed for the electrolysis may be provided by an onsite power generation process . Feeding the power generation may be a portion of the desulfurized gas from the upgrade reactor . In other embodiments shale gas from the retort and or the gas from the solids pretreatment may also be used in addition to or in lieu of the desulfurized gas . An ancillary fuel may also be used if necessary to further provide the fuel necessary for the power generation. In further embodiments the gas from the solids pretreatment may be used in the combustion process .

The power generation process will produce a quantity of hot gas. These hot gases may be used to heat the retort process or the upgrade reactor . In other words the heat in these gases may be used to heat up the retort process and or the upgrade reactor to the desired elevated temperature. By using these hot gases to provide at least a portion of the heat needed in the retort process and or the upgrade reactor the fuel requirement needed for these processes is reduced and the overall cost of the process decreases . Further as the hot gases provide some of the heat more fuel can be devoted to the combustion process thereby decreasing the cost of this process.

Of course many slight changes can be made to this process flow without changing the spirit of providing the overall benefit of integrating the retort and upgrading processes. As can be seen from this flow diagram many of the products from one of the processes can be used as input heat for another process thereby re using as much of the materials as possible and reducing the costs.

Referring now to a flow diagram represents a process for an in situ retort or process for production of heavy oil. In this process fuel and oxidizing gas typically air are fed to a combustion process . From this combustion process hot gas is produced. This hot gas is sent through one or more tubes to heat an energy resource underground in place . This heating is shown by arrows .

If the resource is oil shale the organic part of the oil shale transforms into shale gas and shale oil. This transformed shale gas shale oil then enters a second set of one or more tubes connected to one or more pumps . This entering of the tubes is shown by arrows . Similarly if there is heavy oil or oil sands the same technique could be used to heat the oil in place reducing the viscosity of the oil so it will flow through the tubes to the pumps .

Following the pumps is a separation process . This process divides gases from the liquids . Spent shale remains in place.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a process that is similar to except that this process has been integrated with an upgrading process of the type described in the 874 application . Specifically shows a process flow diagram where the same elements from exist but now there is integration with an upgrading process utilizing molten alkali metal. Similar to the process shown in the gases and liquids are fed to an upgrade reactor where the gases are desulfurized and a portion of the gases serve as radical capping agent with the same benefits as described above.

Similar to the process flow in solids from the solid liquid separation may be fed to the combustion process reducing the amount of fuel needed. Also hot gas from the power generation not shown in may be used in addition to or in lieu of the hot gas . Thus the hot gas from the power generation may be sent down to the resource via tubes and reduce the demand on the combustion process . Of course many slight changes can be made to this process flow without changing the spirit of providing the overall benefit of integrating the retort and upgrading processes

Referring now to a flow diagram shows a process for a steam assisted gravity drain SAGD that may be used in the production of heavy oil or oil sands bitumen. In this process fuel and an oxidizing gas typically air are fed to a combustion process that produces hot gas . This hot gas is sent to a heat exchanger or boiler used for making steam. Water is also added to the heat exchanger and is converted into steam. As part of this process a cooler gas is released by the heat exchanger . This gas may either be sent back to the combustion process e.g. as heat or as fuel or may be vented off.

The steam is delivered through one or more tubes to an energy resource that is located underground in place . The steam exiting the tubes and heating the resource is shown by arrows .

The resource e.g. the heavy oil bitumen or oil sands are heated in place reducing the viscosity of the oil so it will flow through the one or more pipes to the one or more pumps . The resource entering the pipes is shown by arrows . Following the pumps is a separation occurs. This separation divide gases from the liquids . Non fluid inorganics are left in place e.g. in the place .

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a process that is similar to except that this process has been integrated with an upgrading process of the type described in the 874 application . More specifically shows a process flow diagram where the same elements from exist but now there is integration with an upgrading process utilizing molten alkali metal.

Similar to the process shown in the gases and liquids are fed to an upgrade reactor where the gases are desulfurized and a portion of the gases serve as radical capping agent with the same benefits as described above. Similar to the process flow in solids from the solid liquid separation may be fed to the combustion process reducing the amount of fuel needed. Also hot gas from the power generation not shown may additionally be used to generate steam and reduce the demand on the combustion process . Of course many slight changes can be made to this process flow without changing the spirit of providing the overall benefit of integrating the retort and upgrading processes.

The integration described presently offers advantages not obvious from simply executing each technology individually. The present invention reduces the overall cost of producing gas and oil which where sulfur nitrogen and metals have been removed and also reduces harmful emissions such as carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide. Simply having one process feed the other does not provide the benefits but integration as described in this invention has favorable economic and environmental impact.

Referring now to all of the Figures collectively some of the specific efficiencies of combining an upgrading process with the retorting process and or other process for obtaining extracting the oil feedstock will be summarized. For example the present embodiments relate to a method for combining a process for retorting oil shale with a process for upgrading the oil wherein the shale gas and or the shale oil that was formed during retorting oil shale process is used as the gas in an alkali metal upgrading process . Other embodiments may be designed in which the gases formed during heating of bitumen or heavy oil is used in part as the gas in an alkali metal upgrading process .

In other embodiments hydrogen sulfide is produced during the process of retorting oil shale. This hydrogen sulfide may be added to the upgrading process. More specifically the hydrogen sulfide in the presence of the alkali metal will produce a quantity of hydrogen gas and this in situ formed hydrogen may act as the radical capping agent. Thus the gases byproducts formed during the heating of bitumen heavy oil or the retorting process may be used in the upgrading process and do not have to be removed separately from the gases used as the cover gas or capping agent during the upgrading process.

In other embodiments solids which were obtained from the upgrading reaction are carbon and hydrogen bearing solids. These solids are fed back into a retorting process or the combustion process as a further fuel source for these processes. Likewise in combined methods for producing heavy oil or bitumen from oil sands and upgrading the oil the solids from the upgrading process are carbon and hydrogen bearing residual solids and are at least partially fed as a fuel for heating a heavy oil or bitumen production process.

In other embodiments the gases created during a power generation process are used as heat for an oil retorting process or to heat a heavy oil or bitumen production process. In other embodiments solids from a pretreatment process downstream of the upgrade reactor are converted into gases and are used at least in part to produce power for electrolytic regeneration of alkali metals. In other embodiments the gas formed during heating of bitumen or heavy oil is used in part to produce power for electrolytic regeneration of alkali metals.

All the patent applications and patents listed herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

