---

title: Unitary form for mailing a mailpiece via a special service and method of using same
abstract: A form for mailing a mailpiece using a special service has a sheet and a label removably attached to the sheet. The label has information related to the delivery of the article by the special service on the front side. The back side of the label attaches to the article. An electronic return receipt information section and a special services designation section including information indicative of the special service are located on the label. The mailpiece is prepared for delivery by the special service by printing information on the form necessary to comply with the special service delivery requirements. The information has data concerning electronic return receipt of the mailpiece and a machine-readable code section with machine-readable information associated with the mailpiece. The form is removed from the sheet and attached to the mailpiece.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251726&OS=09251726&RS=09251726
owner: USA Images of Florida, LLC
number: 09251726
owner_city: Vero Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
The present invention generally relates to a form for mailing a mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service. More specifically the present invention relates to a unitary special service mailing form for mailing a mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service having an electronic return receipt with a label indicative of the special service and a method for using same.

It is generally known to mail items requiring special services for delivery of the item such as certified mail registered mail priority mail first class mail critical mail insured mail cash on delivery COD return receipt for merchandise and or the like. For example the U.S. Postal Service USPS provides certified mail service and registered mail service for priority mail and for first class mail. For certified mail the USPS may provide both proof of deposit proof of delivery and online tracking using a tracking number or a unique article ID. For certified mail the USPS may obtain a signature of the recipient at the time of delivery which the USPS electronically stores in USPS records and which may be retrieved by the sender. Registered mail may be used for highly valuable and or irreplaceable items. Registered mail may include tracking services. Critical mail service may provide proof of deposit proof of delivery recipient signature confirmation and online tracking using the tracking number and or the unique article ID.

Known components and methods for assembling a mailer for mailing items requiring special services may have multiple separate components requiring attachment to an exterior of an envelope for the special services delivery of the item.

A postal employee typically may receive an envelope from a customer for mailing the item via the special service. The postal employee then may require the customer to attach or otherwise provide the envelope with a permanent seal or label indicating that the envelope requires delivery and or tracking by the special service. The postal employee must ensure that all appropriate labels and documents are both stocked and available for use and are completed and affixed to the envelope prior to delivery of the article. Such a procedure may be complex time consuming and labor intensive. Further the procedure may be confusing to the customer mailing the item.

Further the postal employee must ensure that all labels and or postcards and the return receipt postcard must be suitably affixed to the envelope so that the return postcard is not removed during the mailing of the article to its destination. Of course it should be understood that an envelope prepared for special service mailing may be prepared by any individual not just a postal employee.

A need exists for a simplified unitary form for use with delivery of a mailpiece requiring a special service. To eliminate some of the problems with typical mailing systems a mail customer may utilize an electronic return receipt service available from the USPS. Users of such a service may obtain their return receipts in bulk rather than by individual requests. This service meets at least three customer needs. First the electronic return receipt service may save time and free the mail owner from having to request individual proof of delivery records and or from placing PS Form 3811 Domestic Return Receipt on each mailpiece. Second users of the electronic return receipt service may retain signature records for longer than the standard retention period of the USPS. Third the electronic return receipt service may provide users with a more efficient way to handle signature records. Also users may receive mailpiece recipient signatures in bulk by participating in the Bulk Proof of Delivery BPOD program offered by the USPS. BPOD allows participants using privately printed certified mail insured mail more than 200 or registered mail bar coded labels to add return receipt service and receive those return receipts electronically in bulk. With this scenario when a USPS employee delivers a signature service mailpiece the recipient signs his or her name on PS Form 3849 Delivery Notice Reminder Receipt. The USPS employee may scan customer information on the form and the customer information may then be linked to the delivery event for the mailpiece. Typically the process may be completed within twenty four hours.

A need therefore exists for a unitary special service mailing form for mailing an item requiring delivery by a special service such as certified mail insured mail registered mail COD return receipt for merchandise and the like having an electronic return receipt and a label indicative of the special service and a method for using same.

The present invention generally relates to a form for mailing a mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service. More specifically the present invention relates to a unitary special service mailing form for mailing a mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service having an electronic return receipt with a label indicative of the special service and a method for using same.

To this end in an embodiment a form for special service delivery of a mailpiece is provided. The form may have a sheet and a label attached to the sheet. The label may have a front side and a back side. The back side may be located opposite to the front side. The label may have information related to the delivery of the mailpiece by the special service on the front side. The label may be removed from the sheet and the back side of the label may attach to the mailpiece. A first section on the front side of the label may have information related to an electronic return receipt service associated with the mailpiece. The first section may have a machine readable code section having machine readable information associated with the mailpiece. A second section on the front side of the label may have information indicative of the special service for delivery of the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the form may have a tab on the label. The tab may have information indicative of the special service. The tab may be removed from the sheet and may attach to the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the form may have an auxiliary special services designator section removably attached to the sheet. The auxiliary special services designator section may have information indicative of the special service.

In an embodiment the form may have a receipt removably attached to the sheet. The receipt may have information associated with the delivery of the mailpiece by the special service.

In an embodiment the form may have an address label removably attached to the sheet. The address label may have information associated with a delivery address of the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the form may have an auxiliary information section printed on the sheet. The auxiliary information section may have information unrelated to the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the form may have a Quick Response QR code printed on the sheet. The QR code may have machine readable information.

In another embodiment a method for preparing a mailpiece for delivery by a special service using a form attached to a sheet is provided. The method may have the step of printing information necessary to comply with requirements for the delivery of the mailpiece by the special service on the form. The information may have data concerning electronic return receipt of the mailpiece. The method may have the step of printing information related to delivery of the mailpiece on the form. The method may also have the step of printing information necessary to comply with requirements for electronic return receipt of the mailpiece on the form. The information may have a machine readable code section having machine readable information associated with the mailpiece. The method may have the step of removing the form from the sheet and attaching the form to the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the method may have the step of printing a receipt on the form. The receipt may have information related to the delivery of the mailpiece. The method may also have the step of removing the receipt from the form before mailing the mailpiece.

In a further embodiment a method for preparing a mailpiece for delivery by a special service using a mailing application on a computer system is provided. The method may have the steps of accessing the mailing application on the computer system and creating a mail file using the mailing application. The mail file may have information associated with delivery and the special service for the mailpiece. The method may also have the steps of processing the mail file information using the mailing application to produce an image containing information required by an entity to deliver the mailpiece by the special service and printing the image onto a form and affixing the form to the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the method may have the step of connecting to a service provider for performing address standardization of the information in the mail file.

In an embodiment the method may have the step of printing a mail file report as a receipt of mailing of the mailpiece.

In an embodiment the method may have the steps of transferring the mail file to the entity using the mailing application and receiving tracking information from the entity.

In an embodiment the method may have the step of receiving electronic return receipt information from the entity.

In an embodiment the method may have the step of storing electronic return receipt information from the entity in a database using the mailing application.

It is therefore an advantage of the present invention to provide a form for mailing an article requiring delivery by a special service such as for example priority mail certified mail critical mail and or the like.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a simplified method for mailing an article requiring special services.

A further advantage of the present invention is to provide an assembly that is integrally formed as a complete unit for mailing and labeling of an article requiring special services.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and a method for mailing an article requiring special services without requiring additional adhesives or fixatives for attaching the same to the mailpiece.

Moreover an advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and a method for mailing an article requiring special services that is substantially foolproof.

Yet a further advantage of the present invention is to provide a form which works on automated printing equipment.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form that provides for pre imaging or pre printing of variable information thereon.

An advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and a method for mailing an article requiring special services that uses an electronic return receipt.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and a method for mailing an article requiring special services without requiring that any additional forms be attached to the mailpiece.

A further advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service that may allow a customer to print correspondence addresses fees and or the like directly on the form prior to assembly and deposit with a postal carrier and or the delivery person.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service that may be intuitive and easy to use by a customer requiring a special services mailing assembly or special equipment.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service that may have a detachable portion.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein the detachable portion may have removable adhesive labels such as for example an addressee label a return address label a special service label a unique article number label a bar code label a tracking number label a postage label a receipt and or the like to effect and or to track delivery via the special service.

A still further advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service that may be customized prior to mailing using simplex and or duplex printing methods.

Moreover an advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein one or more of the removable adhesive labels may be removed from the detachable portion and affixed to the article and or package to effect delivery.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein information such as for example a delivery address a return address a special services tracking number a special service bar code postage and or the like may be printed on the form before and or after final assembly for deposit with the postal carrier and or delivery person.

A further advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein a removable label section is provided on the form.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein the special services designation section is variably printed with a machine readable code.

A further advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein an area within the special services designation section has a machine readable code.

Another advantage of the present invention is to provide a form and or a method for mailing correspondence and or articles via a special service wherein the special services designation section is distinctly colored.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention are described in and will be apparent from the detailed description of the presently preferred embodiments and from the drawings.

The present invention relates to an integral special service mailing form for mailing an article requiring delivery by a special service. Further the present invention relates to a method for using the form for mailing articles requiring delivery by a special service.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like numerals refer to like parts is a front plan view that generally illustrates an embodiment of a form . The form may be used for mailing an item requiring a special service as shown in . Although a certified mail envelope is illustrated in and a certified mail package is illustrated in it should be understood that the present invention may be applicable to any item requiring any one or more special services such as insured mail registered mail COD return receipt for merchandise and the like. As used herein the envelope and or the package may be referred to in general as a mailpiece.

As shown in the form may have components and or sections. illustrates the form in a blank state i.e. without any printing related to the delivery of the mailpiece in which the form may be used. As shown the form may be provided in a blank state and or a printed state. For example the form may be printed for use as certified mail. In particular illustrates the form in a blank state and illustrates the form in a partially printed state. In certain sections of the form may have printing related to the delivery of the mailpiece in which the form may be used.

As shown in the form may have a sheet . The sheet may be manufactured from a type of material that may be removably attachable via an adhesive for example a sheet of UV silicone. Of course other materials known to one having ordinary skill in the art may also be used for the sheet .

Further the form may have a label having a front side . The label may be in a preferred embodiment a pre printed label indicative of the special service required for mailing of the mailpiece. For example the mailpiece may be either the envelope shown in or the package shown in . The front side of the label may be pre printed. As illustrated in the label may have several sections and or components. For example the label may have an address label section . The address label section may be pre printed with the address of the intended recipient of the envelope shown in or the package shown in . The form may also have a return address label . The return address label may be pre printed with the address of the sender of the mailpiece.

Further the label may have a special services designation section that may have information indicative of the special service on the label . Depending on the special service desired the special services designation section may have information necessary to comply with requirements for for example USPS Forms 3800 3804 3806 3813 3856 or the like. The special services designation section may have a special service indicator and a window section in which an article identification number may be printed. As shown in the special service indicator may denote CERTIFIED MAIL as the type of special service used. However any special services may be indicated such as insured mail registered mail COD return receipt for merchandise and or the like.

The special services designation section may also have a first area that may be distinctly colored from a remainder of the area. For example the color of the first area may be green to designate the generally recognized color for certified mail or may be brown to designate the generally recognized color for return receipt for merchandise or the like. Within the first area a wording area may be provided to specifically denote the type of special service for which the mailing may be implemented. As shown in the wording area may contain the wording CERTIFIED MAIL. The article identification number may be provided within the special services designation section . The article identification number may be a machine readable number associated with the mailpiece. The machine readable number of the article identification number may be used for tracking of the mailpiece before during and after delivery by the special service.

Further a bar code may be provided in the special services designation section . The bar code may also be used for tracking of the mailpiece before during and after delivery by the special service. The special services designation section may have for example the special service indicator the unique article identification number and or the bar code pre printed on the front side of the label . The special services designation section may be associated with the special service selected by the sender. Although references may be made to the USPS the form of the present invention may be used with any other postal parcel carriers that the user may select.

The postal parcel carrier may scan or input the article identification number and or the barcode into a computer system as shown in for tracking the mailpiece on which the form may be used. If the sender has not applied postage to the mailpiece the postal parcel carrier may sell postage to the sender and or may apply postage to the mailpiece. The postal parcel carrier may input the special service selected into the computer system and or may provide the sender with a receipt of deposit. The receipt may be used by the sender to track the delivery of the mailpiece via the special service.

In an embodiment the article identification number the tracking number and or the bar code may be printed on one of the removable labels and or may be retained as a receipt by the sender. The postal parcel carrier may input and or scan the article identification number and or the bar code into the computer system upon delivery to the recipient of the mailpiece. The sender may refer to the article identification number and or the bar code to track the mailpiece during and or after delivery by the special service using for example a computer interface a telephone interface and or a website provided for the special service by the postal parcel carrier.

Typically the special services designation section has been implemented as a separate and or distinct form from a return postcard for example USPS Form 3811. The present invention may allow for incorporation of what previously required completion of two forms and subsequent attachment of the two forms to for example a package to be delivered requiring special services for delivery. As a result use of the single form of the present invention simplifies and or expedites the preparation of the mailpiece requiring delivery by the special service such as certified mail return receipt for merchandise insured mail registered mail and or the like.

To further simplify the preparation of the mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service the label may also have an electronic return receipt ERR information section on the front side of the label for use with the ERR service provided by the USPS. The electronic return receipt information section may have the wording ELECTRONIC RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED. Use of the ERR service may satisfy at least three customer needs. First the electronic return receipt service may save time and or free the mail owner from having to request individual proof of delivery records and or from placing PS Form 3811 Domestic Return Receipt on each mailpiece. Second users of the ERR service may retain signature records for longer than the standard retention period of the USPS. Third the ERR service may provide users with a more efficient way to handle signature records.

Also users may receive mailpiece recipient signatures in bulk by participating in the Bulk Proof of Delivery BPOD program offered by the USPS. BPOD allows participants using privately printed certified mail insured mail more than 200 or registered mail bar coded labels to add return receipt service and or receive those return receipts electronically in bulk. With this scenario when a USPS employee delivers a signature service mailpiece the recipient signs his or her name on PS Form 3849 Delivery Notice Reminder Receipt. The USPS employee may scan customer information on the form and the customer information may then be linked to the delivery event for the mailpiece. Typically the process may be completed within twenty four hours. Thus the electronic return receipt information section may simplify the preparation and mailing process for the user the USPS and or the recipient of the mailpiece.

As further illustrated in the form may have additional sections and or components. For example an auxiliary label may be provided and in an embodiment more than one auxiliary label may be provided. In the embodiment illustrated in two auxiliary labels are shown. It should be understood that the auxiliary labels may be printed with any information that the user may require. In addition the form may have text information describing the components and or sections of the form . The text information may aid the user in understanding the use of the components and or the sections in preparation of the form .

Further the form may have a receipt label . The receipt label may have information relevant to the shipment. For example such information may include but is not limited to the special service indicator of the type of special service. For example the special service indicator in may denote CERTIFIED MAIL as the type of special service. The unique article identification number may also be included on the receipt label . Further a sender address and or a recipient address may be included on the receipt label . Also a fee summary itemizing the fees associated with the special service and postage may be provided on the receipt label .

In addition in the embodiment shown an additional tracking label may be provided. The additional tracking label which also may have a section for the article identification number may be used for records that the sender may maintain. Further the additional tracking label may be provided with adhesive on its reverse side. The additional tracking label may preferably be a peel and stick type label. The label may be removably attached to the sheet . To this end the label may be adhesively backed for subsequent attachment to the mailpiece requiring delivery by a special service.

Moreover the label may have an auxiliary information section . The auxiliary information section may have any information that may be related to the mailpiece and or the special services delivery of the mailpiece. Also the auxiliary information section may have information unrelated to the particular mailpiece but related to the shipment and or preparation of the mailpiece. For example a Quick Response code QR code may be provided. The QR code may connect the user with the contact information and or the website of the manufacturer of the form to facilitate the shipment and or preparation of the mailpiece. Any other information may be accessible by using the QR code such as advertising and the like.

As shown in the label the address label the return address label the auxiliary labels the receipt label and the additional tracking label may collectively form a label layer removably attached to the sheet of the form . The label layer may have a front side which may be printed and a back side which may have an adhesive . The adhesive may be a peel and stick type adhesive and may be provided to seal the label to the mailpiece requiring special service mailing as shown in . In addition to the label one or more of the address label the return address label the auxiliary labels the receipt label and the additional tracking label may be removable adhesive labels with the adhesive on the back side of each respective label.

For example the additional tracking label may be adhesively backed for subsequent attachment to the receipt or other item requiring designation of the article number for related purposes. For example the additional tracking label may be used by a postal delivery employee on a USPS form PS 3849 a delivery notice not shown . Alternatively the additional tracking label may be used for the receiver s record use.

Certain sections of the label layer and or the form discussed above may be pre printed. Such sections of the label layer may be printed on the front side with corresponding relevant information for example the sender address the recipient address the special service indicator the article ID number the barcode information on the receipt a tracking number postage other address information and or the like. Printing may be done using any one or more of various printing methods such as for example duplex printing and or simplex printing using a printer.

In an embodiment the user of the form may remove the desired labels having for example the sender address the recipient address the special service indicator the article ID number the barcode information on the receipt a tracking number postage other address information and or the like and or may affix certain desired labels to a shipping log a tracking log a receipt book and or any other record keeping book and or device and or the like. As shown in some of the labels may also be affixed to the mailpiece as desired. However it should be understood that the form may be printed with any information that the user may require and or may be affixed to any portion of the mailpiece as desired. As shown in and the desired labels may be removed from the sheet and may be affixed for example at locations on the envelope shown in or the package shown in .

Referring now to a back plan view of an embodiment of the form is illustrated. The form has a back side . The back side of the form may have information and or instructions related to the items on a front side of the form . For example a label information section may provide information and or instructions on how to use and or apply the label on the front side of the form . The label information section may have an illustration of the label on the envelope as shown in . The label information section may also have accompanying text describing how to use the label .

Similarly a receipt label information section may be located on the back side of the form in a position corresponding to the location of the receipt label on the front side of the form . The receipt label information section may provide information related to the receipt label and or its uses.

Further a tracking label information section may be located on the back side of the form in a position corresponding to the location of the additional tracking label on the front side of the form . The tracking label information section may provide information related to the additional tracking label and or its uses. For example the additional tracking label may be used as internal tracking numbers by the user in a shipping log a tracking log a receipt book and or any other record keeping book and or device and or the like.

Also an auxiliary label information section may be located on the back side of the form in a position corresponding to the location of the auxiliary label on the front side of the form . The auxiliary label information section may provide information related to the auxiliary label and or its uses. For example the auxiliary label may be used as an extra address label or in any other manner desired by the user.

Referring now to the envelope requiring delivery by a special service is illustrated. The envelope has a front side and a back side located opposite to the front side . The envelope may also have a top edge . Sections of the label layer of the form may be attached to the envelope as appropriate and or as desired by the user. For example the label of the label layer of the form may be removed from the sheet and may be affixed to the envelope .

As shown the label the address label section the return address label section and the special services designation section and the special service indicator may be affixed to the envelope at or near the middle of the envelope that may be near the top edge . These components of the label layer of the form may be adhered to the front side of the envelope by the adhesive located on the back side of label layer .

As also illustrated the special services designation section may have a tab having an additional special service indicator printed thereon. In an embodiment the additional special service indicator and the special service indicator may be printed in such a way that they are inverted versions of each other. Thus the special service indicator on the special services designation section may be affixed to the front side of the envelope . The tab having the additional special service indicator may then be folded over the top edge of the envelope and onto the back side of the envelope . In this manner the special services desired may be visible from the front side of the envelope and or from the back side of the envelope . Postage may also be applied to the front side of the envelope . The postage may be an ink stamp an automated printed image indicative of the correct postage and or a postage stamp.

As illustrated in the package may have a front side and a top side with a top edge located at the intersection of the front side and the top side . Sections of the label layer of the form may be attached to the package as appropriate and or as desired by the user. For example the label of the label layer of the form may be removed from the sheet and or may be affixed to the package .

As shown the label the address label section the return address label section and or the special services designation section and the special service indicator may be affixed to the package at or near the middle of the package that may be near the top edge . These components of the label layer of the form may be adhered to the front side of the package by the adhesive located on the back side of the label layer .

As illustrated the special services designation section may have the tab having the additional special service indicator . In an embodiment the additional special service indicator and or the special service indicator may be printed as inverted versions of each other. Thus the special service indicator on the special services designation section may be affixed to the front side of the package . The tab having the additional special service indicator may then be folded over the top edge of the package and onto the top side of the package . In this manner the special services desired may be visible from the front side of the package and or from the top side of the package . The postage may also be applied to the front side of the package . The postage may be an ink stamp an automated printed image indicative of the correct postage and or a postage stamp.

As illustrated in more than one form may be provided on a single sheet . For example in an embodiment of the form shown in two forms are shown on one sheet .

Referring now to an embodiment of an assembly for special services delivery is illustrated. The assembly may have a backing sheet and a label layer removably attached to the backing sheet via an adhesive . Further each of the label layers of the forms may be separable from each adjacent form by a tear line . The assembly may be similar to the single form shown in . However the assembly may have two label layers on the backing sheet . The backing sheet may be sized to accommodate two label layers of the form . The assembly

The assembly may be provided as a blank whereupon variable information may be printed. The variable information may include information relating to the special service and or any other information required and or desired to effect the delivery of the mailpiece requiring delivery by the special services. Each of the label layers of the assembly may be printed with the same information for example for sending multiple mailpieces to the same address. Also each label layer may be individually printed with unique information for separate mailings to different addressees and or for sending the same mailpiece to different addressees.

Referring now to another embodiment of an assembly for special services delivery is illustrated. The assembly may have a continuous roll of backing sheets . The assembly may have a plurality of the forms illustrated in . However the plurality of forms may be provided on the continuous roll of the backing sheets . The assembly may have a label layer removably attached to each of the backing sheets via an adhesive . Further each of the label layers of the forms may be separable from each adjacent form by a tear line . In such a case preferably each of the label layers of the form may be a peel and stick label that may be removably attached to the sheet .

The assembly may be provided as a blank whereupon variable information may be printed including information relating to the special service and or any other information required and or desired to effect the delivery of the mailpiece requiring the special services. Each of the label layers of the assembly may be printed with the same information for example for a bulk mailing of the same mailpiece. Also each of the label layers may be individually printed with unique information for separate mailings to different addressees.

The entire mailing assembly and or may be provided without the necessary information required for delivery of the mailpiece by a special service that is in effect provided as a blank mailing assembly. The mailing assembly and or may then be fed into a printing device whereupon the necessary information for delivery by the special service may be printed on one or more of the forms of the entire mailing assembly and or . Thus each of the individual forms may be detached as needed from the backing sheet and or respectively.

In an embodiment the tear line of the assembly and or the tear line of the assembly may extend through the respective backing sheet and or that may subdivide the backing sheet and or into a plurality of individual backing sheets. Each of the forms and the backing sheet and or may be separated from each other. Also each assembly and or may be removable from an adjacent mailing assembly via the tear line and or respectively.

Thus a plurality of the forms may be connected in an end to end fashion on the continuous roll . The forms may be incorporated in a series of the forms that may be continuously repeated and or may be linked together such that the forms are incorporated as a continuous series of the forms or alternatively a roll of the forms or the like.

In this embodiment each of the sheets of each of the forms may be removably connected to each other via the tear lines . Also each of the forms may be removably attached to each of the sheets on the continuous roll . Thus each of the forms may be separable from an adjacent form. In this embodiment the form may be a peel and stick type form that may be removably attached to the sheet . Thus each of the forms may be detached from each of the sheets as needed. Also the continuous roll of the sheets may be printed at one time for subsequent separation and or application to separate mailpieces. In use the forms may be removed from the continuous roll and or subsequently attached to the mailpiece for delivery by the special service.

Moreover the form either individually or in the assembly and or the assembly may be printed using any known method of printing and is not limited to any single type. Such printing methods may include but are not limited to laser printing thermal printing dot matrix printing and the like. Printing may be performed on continuously fed forms and or on individually fed forms.

The form may be prepared and or processed in an automated manner using the computer system having a mailing tracking software application. An embodiment of the computer system is illustrated in . The computer system may have a computer connected in a network . The network may be any of a general local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and the like. The network may operate on a common wired Ethernet network or a Wi Fi network the brand name for products using IEEE 802.11 standards . The network may be used for printing transferring files and the like. Various components in the network may be connected to operate as desired. The network may be capable of accessing the Internet .

For example the computer system may have a user interface for inputting and or viewing data related to the printing preparation and or delivery status of the form . The user interface may be a terminal a keyboard a handheld device and the like. Any known user interface may be used and is considered to be within the scope of the invention. A printer may also be connected and or networked to the computer system in the network . The connection of the printer to the computer system in the network may use wires cables fiber optics and the like. Alternatively wireless Bluetooth and or Wi Fi interfaces may be used as a replacement for cabling. In particular Bluetooth may be used for portable equipment and its applications. Also Bluetooth may be a replacement for cabling in a variety of personally carried applications in any setting and also may work for fixed location applications.

In an embodiment shown in a method for using a special service mailing label and or form for mailing an article requiring delivery by a special service having an electronic return receipt with a label indicative of the special service is provided. The user may utilize the computer system shown in for performing the method shown in . The method may allow the user to input and or view data related to printing preparation and or delivery status of the form . The user may obtain a supply of the forms . Also the user may obtain initial logon information for using a software application.

In step the user may log on to a website for example USAMailer.com operated by the assignee of the present application to access the application. The user may log on using the user interface of the computer system . The user may have the option within the application to set up multiple accounts and or mailings for different users.

In step of the method the user may either import a file into the application and or may create a new mail file. In step the user may enter recipient name address and any unique identifiers. In step the user may also select the manner for delivery of the mailpiece by the USPS. In the illustrated embodiment of the form the user may select First Class Certified and Electronic Return Receipt ERR .

The method may also have a step in which the application may utilize an Application Programming Interface API to connect to the USPS for address standardization. In step of the method the user may process the request using the application. The application may produce a pdf image. The pdf image may contain all information required by the USPS to mail the mailpiece desired.

In step the user may print the pdf image using the printer of the computer system onto the form . The user may remove the desired components of the form and or may affix the components to the mailpiece as required. Referring again to the user may remove the label and or the address label section . The address label section may be pre printed with the address of the intended recipient of the envelope shown in or the package shown in . The form may also have a return address label . The return address label may be pre printed with the address of the sender of the mailpiece. Further the label may have the special services designation section that may have information indicative of the special service on the label . The desired components of the form may be affixed to the mailpiece.

In step the user may use the application to print a USPS Form 3877 which is a Certified Mail Manifest. The Form PS 3877 may be presented if three or more Certified Mail letters are mailed at a USPS Post Office. The computer generated manifest may contain postal information rates fees and article numbers approved by the postmaster. The user may present three or more letters and have the manifest date stamped with a round stamp and signed by the USPS acceptance person. The stamped Form PS 3877 may serve as a receipt or proof that the letter was accepted into the USPS mail stream. The Form PS 3877 may thus provide the receipt of mailing.

In step the user may also select Proof of Delivery POD using the application and then Request POD. In step of the method the application may connect to USPS for transferring files connecting to USPS API for Tracking and USPS API for POD. A file of mailing information and the information submitted by the user may be electronically transferred to the USPS utilizing the application.

In step of the method the application may provide tracking updates throughout the delivery process. After delivery the USPS may submit POD information back to the application. The application may store the information in a database that may be accessible to the user. The user may log on to the application on the website USAMailer.com to view and or print the POD.

Other variations and or configurations which are known to one having ordinary skill in the art are possible and are deemed to be within the scope of this disclosure. The materials used for the components of the form may be selected from any suitable material to perform the desired function for operation of the form . The materials must also be capable of withstanding environmental conditions that may be encountered. Considerations of performance and or reliability are also important in the selection of the material. Other materials which are known to one having ordinary skill in the art may be selected and are deemed to be within the scope of this disclosure.

As disclosed above the form may also be manufactured in numerous embodiments. The various embodiments of the form may have additional components which may provide enhanced functionality of the form .

Moreover the present invention is not limited to the specific arrangement of the components illustrated in the figures. It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art. Such changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its attendant advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

