---

title: Advanced authentication techniques
abstract: A method, system, apparatus, and computer program product are provided for facilitating advanced authentication techniques. For example, a method is provided that includes receiving at least one request to access at least one resource and receiving at least one composite authentication credential, the composite authentication credential comprising a first credential component and a second credential component. The method further includes determining whether the first credential component is valid, determining whether the second credential component is valid and, in an instance in which it is determined that the first and second credential components are valid, causing access to the at least one resource to be permitted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258301&OS=09258301&RS=09258301
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09258301
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 062 309 entitled Attempted Security Breach Remediation and filed on Oct. 29 2013 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to electronic device security and more particularly to systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for providing advanced authentication techniques.

Various authentication techniques are used to restrict access to electronic devices and ensure that only authorized users may gain access to sensitive resources. For example biometrics may be used as a convenient and reasonably secure basis for authenticating users. Biometric signatures such as fingerprints or iris images are acquired from the user s person meaning a user authenticated through biometrics would not need to remember cumbersome passwords or the like. However biometric signatures are vulnerable to spoofing. Fingerprints for example can be duplicated with off the shelf materials while many iris scanners can be fooled with simple high resolution photographs. Because most biometric signatures by their very nature cannot be changed users who have had one or more of their biometric signatures compromised may perpetually remain susceptible to security breaches. Accordingly a need exists for advanced authentication techniques that avoid some of the disadvantages of conventional authentication techniques.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Neither is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

According to one example embodiment a method is provided that includes receiving at least one request to access at least one resource and receiving at least one composite authentication credential the composite authentication credential comprising a first credential component and a second credential component. The method of the example embodiment further includes determining whether the first credential component is valid determining whether the second credential component is valid and causing access to the at least one resource to be permitted in an instance in which it is determined that the first and second credential components are valid. According to a further example embodiment the first credential component comprises a sequential credential component and the second credential component comprises a biometric credential component.

According to another example embodiment an apparatus is provided that includes at least one processor and at least one memory storing program code instructions. The at least one memory and program code instructions of the example embodiment are configured to with the at least one processor direct the apparatus to at least receive at least one request to access at least one resource and receive at least one composite authentication credential the composite authentication credential comprising a first credential component and a second credential component. The apparatus of this example embodiment is further directed to determine whether the first credential component is valid determine whether the second credential component is valid and cause in an instance in which it is determined that the first and second credential components are valid access to the at least one resource to be permitted. According to a further example embodiment the first credential component comprises a sequential credential component and the second credential component comprises a biometric credential component.

According to yet another example embodiment a computer program product is provided the computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having program code portions embodied therein. The program code portions of the example embodiment are configured to upon execution direct an apparatus to at least receive at least one request to access at least one resource and receive at least one composite authentication credential the composite authentication credential comprising a first credential component and a second credential component. The apparatus of this example embodiment is further directed to determine whether the first credential component is valid determine whether the second credential component is valid and cause in an instance in which it is determined that the first and second credential components are valid access to the at least one resource to be permitted. According to a further example embodiment the first credential component comprises a sequential credential component and the second credential component comprises a biometric credential component.

According to another example embodiment an apparatus is provided that includes means for receiving at least one request to access at least one resource means for receiving at least one composite authentication credential the composite authentication credential comprising a first credential component and a second credential component means for determining whether the first credential component is valid means for determining whether the second credential component is valid and means causing access to the at least one resource to be permitted in an instance in which it is determined that the first and second credential components are valid. According to a further example embodiment the first credential component comprises a sequential credential component and the second credential component comprises a biometric credential component.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions subtractions and or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings as indicated in some cases via dashed lines and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Indeed the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

As used herein the terms data content information and similar terms may be used interchangeably to refer to data capable of being transmitted received processed and or stored in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Thus use of any such terms should not be taken to limit the spirit and scope of embodiments of the present invention.

Additionally as the term will be used herein circuitry may refer to hardware only circuit implementations e.g. implementations in analog circuitry and or digital circuitry combinations of circuits and computer program product s including software and or firmware instructions stored on one or more i.e. at least one computer readable memories that work together to cause an apparatus to perform one or more functions described herein and circuits such as for example one or more microprocessors or portions of one or more microprocessors that require software or firmware for operation even if the software or firmware is not physically present. This definition of circuitry is applicable to all uses of this term including in any claims. As another example the term circuitry also includes implementations comprising one or more processors and or portion s thereof and accompanying software and or firmware. As another example the term circuitry also includes for example an integrated circuit or applications processor integrated circuit for a portable communication device or a similar integrated circuit in a server a network device and or other computing device.

As defined herein a computer readable storage medium refers to a non transitory physical storage medium e.g. volatile or non volatile memory device and can be differentiated from a computer readable transmission medium which refers to an electromagnetic signal. Furthermore at least one and one or more both as used herein refer to any non zero quantity and will be used interchangeably herein.

The present application is generally directed to electronic device security. More particularly and according to a first aspect of the present application systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for providing remedial actions in response to attempted security breaches are described. As used herein an attempted security breach refers to any attempt whether successful or not to gain unauthorized access to an electronic device e.g. access to data resources functionality and or the like that are accessible via the electronic device and or access to the electronic device itself such as by an unauthorized user.

Example embodiments of such attempted security breach remediation systems methods apparatuses and computer program products may be configured to cause various remedial actions to be performed in response to determining that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred. For example embodiments may be configured to determine that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred and in response cause a recording to be captured. This recording may for example comprise a photo an audio recording a recording comprising biometric information and or another type of recording. Example embodiments may further cause at least a portion of the recording to be compared against a database. Thus for example some example embodiments might detect that an attempted security breach has occurred because a user has entered a suspicious number of incorrect passwords in a row and having determined that a suspected security breach has occurred might cause a photo to be captured of the user. Example embodiments might further cause this photo to be compared against a database for example of employees e.g. present and or former or criminals. Based on this comparison an appropriate remedial action may be determined and performed.

For example comparing the photo against the database may reveal that an authorized user was attempting to access the device and has merely forgotten their password. The user may thus be presented with an alternative authorization option and or an option to reset their password. In another instance comparing the photo against the database may reveal that a known criminal or an unauthorized user is responsible for the failed authorization attempts. Accordingly an example embodiment may cause the police or a system administrator to be contacted cause the device to be wiped cause the device to be locked cause the device to engage one or more location services and or cause various other actions to be performed. Many other example embodiments are possible some of which will be described below.

According to another aspect of the present application systems methods apparatuses and computer program products for providing advanced authentication techniques are described. Example embodiments of such advanced authentication techniques may for example combine multiple authentication components such as one or more biometric signatures and one or more sequence based passcodes or the like into composite authentication credentials. For example some embodiments may receive biometric information such as fingerprint data or the like in a particular sequence or order thereby allowing a user whose biometric information has been compromised e.g. copied spoofed or the like to still maintain a degree of control over their authentication credentials. As a specific example an authentication technique involving scanning fingerprints in a particular predefined order e.g. ring ring index thumb may be provided such that the particular order may be changed at the election of the user. Similar techniques may be provided for use with other biometric signatures such as iris scanning e.g. by blinking and or winking so as to present iris image s in a particular pattern . Additional layers of authentication may also be added to these example embodiments such as by implementing fingerprint scanning into a PIN entry device such that the PIN itself the sequence of fingers used to enter the PIN and the fingerprints themselves may together form a robust composite authentication credential.

According to an additional aspect of the present application the attempted security breach remediation functionality discussed above may be enhanced by the advanced authentication techniques. For example which component of a composite authentication credential is determined to be invalid may be taken into account when determining whether a given authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. Thus in the case of a composite authentication credential comprising a biometric component and a sequence component an authentication attempt comprising a valid biometric component but an invalid sequence component may be determined to not be a suspected attempted security breach while an invalid biometric component and valid sequence component may be determined to be a suspected attempted security breach. As another example which component of a composite authentication credential is determined to be invalid may additionally or alternatively be taken into consideration when determining an appropriate remedial action. For example an invalid sequential component may trigger a password reclamation procedure such as by presenting an option to reset the sequence component while an invalid biometric component may trigger one or more device recovery and or access restriction procedures.

Having thus provided an overview of various features and or functionality that may be provided according to some example embodiments attention will now be turned to the Figures so that certain example embodiments may be described in more detail.

The user device s may comprise any electronic device configured to communicate over one or more networks such as the network depicted in . For example the user device s may comprise one or more electronic devices such as a mobile telephone smartphone tablet computer PDA pager desktop or laptop computer a set top box a music player a game console or any of numerous other fixed or portable communication devices computation devices content generation devices content consumption devices or combinations thereof.

The resource server may for example comprise any type of network accessible electronic device or system that includes storage such as the depicted resource store . The resource server may according to one example embodiment comprise a public server that may be accessible to anyone who connects to it over a network such as the network . According to another example embodiment the resource server may be a private server accessible only over a private network such as the network and or may be located behind a firewall. According to another example embodiment the resource server may additionally or alternatively require user registration and or may require use of an authorized user device to access it. The resource server may store any type of data such as one or more databases some of which will be described in further detail below.

The compliance server may be any type of network accessible electronic device or system that includes storage such as the depicted compliance rule store and may be configured to communicate with the user device s and or the resource server over one or more networks such as the network depicted in to provide device content and or application management capabilities. For example the compliance server may comprise cloud based solutions server computers and or any other system configured to provide device content and or application management capability. The compliance server may according to some example embodiments further be configured to direct the resource server to transmit data e.g. to one or more user devices and or to direct the one or more user device s to transmit data e.g. to the compliance server and or resource server .

The compliance server may comprise a management application and a compliance rule store storing one or more compliance rules e.g. compliance policies that may be applicable to the user device s . While the management application is shown as within the compliance server the management application may additionally or alternately be within the user device s and or remotely located on the resource server and may be remotely updated such as periodically via compliance server according to any number of suitable over the air OTA updating methods.

Attempts by the user device s to perform certain functionality such as viewing modifying transmitting and or receiving various content may require the user device to be in compliance with one or more of the compliance rules. Depending on the sensitivity and or nature of a given functionality different compliance rules may be necessary to ensure that the functionality is adequately restricted. Some functionality may only require ensuring e.g. via one or more authentication procedures that the proper user is requesting the functionality. Other functionality may require compliance with more stringent and or complex authorization rules such as determining whether the functionality is restricted during certain time windows or geographic areas. Accordingly the user device s and or the compliance server may be operative to determine whether the user of the user device is authorized to perform requested functionality at the time the user requests to perform such functionality.

Compliance server may for example use the compliance rules to impose hardware restrictions regarding the use of specific devices and or specific device features such as for instance cameras Bluetooth IRDA tethering external storage a mobile access point and or other hardware restrictions. The compliance rules may additionally or alternatively impose software restrictions such as the use of specific wireless device operating systems or applications internet browser restrictions screen capture functionality and or other software restrictions. Mobile device management restrictions may additionally or alternatively be included in the compliance rules and may comprise encryption requirements firmware versions remote lock and wipe functionalities logging and reporting features GPS tracking and or other mobile device management features.

The compliance server may determine whether one or more device characteristics of a requesting device e.g. the user device s satisfy one or more of the restrictions enumerated in the compliance rules. For example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that has a camera BLUETOOTH capability and is executing a specified version of an operating system is compliant with the compliance rules. As another example the compliance server may determine that a requesting device that is associated with an external storage unit and has screen capture functionality enabled is not compliant with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments an agent application executed on the user device s may make the compliance determination based on a device profile e.g. the device profile depicted in credentials and or user preferences. For instance the agent application may monitor calls by applications such as the web browser email client secure application and or any other application on the user device to an operating system e.g. the operating system depicted in of the user device to determine whether the user device seeks to perform functionality associated with one and or more of the compliance rules described above. Additionally the agent application executed on the user device s may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests. For instance the agent application may instruct the operating system on the user device s to prevent the device from performing various functionality in response to a determination that a compliance rule e.g. one or more of the compliance rules stored in the data store depicted in specifies that such functionality is not authorized.

In some embodiments the agent application executed on the user device s may rely on the compliance server to determine whether a given functionality of the device is authorized according to the compliance rules. For instance the agent application may transmit information such as a device profile access credentials authentication information information regarding one or more authentication attempts and or information regarding one or more individuals to the compliance server so that compliance server may determine whether the user device seeks to perform functionality that may violate a given compliance rule. Additionally the compliance server may approve and or deny the associated functionality requests.

In some embodiments the compliance rules may comprise device settings and or executable instructions that define which functionality the operating system of the user device s is authorized to perform. Furthermore the compliance rules may comprise a list of functions such as those provided by APIs associated with the operating system and or a platform library such as the platform library depicted in that may be treated as protected functions. Viewing modifying receiving and or transmitting content may for example comprise or otherwise be associated with one or more of these functions. Calls to these functions such as calls to retrieve login credentials or attempts to interact with e.g. view modify transmit or receive content may result in checks by the user device e.g. via the agent application and or the compliance server e.g. via the management application for compliance with the compliance rules.

In some embodiments the agent application may perform a set of ordered operations to accomplish a requested function. These operation sets may be defined on e.g. stored in a memory of the user device s and or the compliance server and may comprise one or more operations to determine whether the user device is in compliance with compliance rules from the compliance rule store . The agent application may control at least one respective computing resource of the user device s . The operations may include configuring at least one respective computing resource of the user device s such as restricting access to at least one resource managed by the agent application such as one or more of the resources depicted in .

For purposes of convenience the resource server and compliance server are each referred to herein in the singular although it will be understood that a plurality of one or both servers may be employed in the arrangements as described herein. For example in some embodiments multiple compliance servers and or resource servers may operate on the same server computer. The components executed on the compliance server and or resource server may for example comprise various applications services processes systems engines or functionality not disclosed in detail herein.

As shown in the user device s compliance server and or resource server may communicate with one another directly and or via the network . The user device s compliance server and or resource server may connect to the network via wired or wireless means such as via one or more intermediate networks. For example the user device s compliance server and or resource server may connect with the network via wired means such as Ethernet USB Universal Serial Bus or the like or via wireless means such as for example WI FI BLUETOOTH or the like or by connecting with a wireless cellular network such as a Long Term Evolution LTE network an LTE Advanced LTE A network a Global Systems for Mobile communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network e.g. a Wideband CDMA WCDMA network a CDMA2000 network or the like a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network or other type of network.

Accordingly the Network may comprise for example one or more wired and or wireless networks such as one or more wireless local area networks WLAN wireless wide area networks WWAN Ethernet networks fiber optic networks and or any other type of wired and or wireless network now known or later developed. Additionally the Network may comprise the Internet and or one or more intranets extranets microwave networks satellite communications networks cellular networks infrared communication networks global area networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of such networks.

Turning now to a diagram of an example user device is depicted. While illustrates one example configuration of such a user device numerous other configurations may be used according to some example embodiments. With reference to however the user device may comprise a processor e.g. at least one processor co processor and or processing circuitry and at least one memory . Depending on the configuration and type of device the memory may comprise but is not limited to volatile e.g. random access memory RAM non volatile e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory or any combination thereof. The memory may store executable programs e.g. program code instructions and related data components of various applications and modules for execution by the processor . The at least one memory may be communicatively connected to the at least one processor e.g. via one or more system busses for transferring data therebetween.

Basic functionality of the user device may be provided by an operating system contained in the at least one memory and executed via the at least one processor . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . For example applications stored in the memory may be executed by the processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications applications configured to view and or manipulate content and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and or generated as output from the application s may be stored in the memory and read by the processor from the memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in the memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or provided during installation of the application.

The user device may include one or more communication ports such as the communication ports A C depicted in . It will be understood that although three communication ports are depicted in the example user device depicted in any number of such ports may be present according to other example configurations of a user device . Such communication ports A C may allow the user device to communicate with other devices such as other user devices the compliance server and or the resource server and may comprise components such as a wireless network connectivity interface an Ethernet network adapter and or a modem. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise one and or more of a wireless radio transceiver PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem and or the like. According to some embodiments the communication ports A C may additionally or alternatively include one or more antennas supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry configured to receive and or transmit signals according to any short range communication protocols and or standards such as for example near field communication NFC BLUETOOTH and or BLUETOOTH Low Energy BLE . According to some embodiments the communication ports A C may additionally or alternatively include one or more interfaces configured to provide location services such as one or more antennas supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry configured to receive signals transmitted from GPS satellites.

The user device may also receive data as user input via an input interface such as one or more of a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a biometric device a capture device a brain computer interface BCI etc. The input interface may additionally or alternatively comprise one or more sensing devices such as one or more cameras microphones motion detectors proximity sensors biometric sensors and or the like which may be configured to capture visual aural physical and or other types of stimuli and or information such as spoken words motions gestures biometric signatures and or the like. It will be understood that biometric sensors may comprise any sensor configured and or configurable to receive information regarding one or more biometric signatures e.g. information regarding one or more patterns and or identifiable characteristics of a bodily feature. Such bodily features may for example include a person s fingerprints irises voice skeletal frame facial features genetics brain waves gait posture and or any other discernable feature of a human body. Accordingly a biometric sensor may for example comprise one or more of a fingerprint scanner iris scanner camera electroencephalogram EEG electrocardiogram ECG or the like.

Data generated by applications may be caused to be stored in the memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user of the user device during application program execution by means of an output interface . The output interface may comprise one or more devices configured to provide information and or stimuli to a user such as one or more display devices speakers force vibration and or haptic feedback generating devices implanted and or physiologically integrated output devices heads up display devices and or the like. It will be understood that although the input and output interfaces are depicted as distinct components in they may according to example embodiments be embodied by one or more components configured to provide both input and output functionality through what is or appears to be a single interface. For example the input and output interface may comprise a touchscreen device e.g. a display device configured to both display information and receive user input such as via a touch detection interface.

The at least one memory may also comprise a platform library . The platform library may comprise one or more collections of functionality e.g. utilities useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user experience. The platform library may also provide functionality associated with app wrapping defined herein as adding additional functionality referred to herein as wrapper provided functionality to applications without affecting or in some cases only minimally affecting the application s preexisting or stock functionality. For example an existing game application may be wrapped to provide support for compliance rules such as those that prohibit the application from executing during work hours the game s functionality would be unaffected during non work hours. Similarly an existing application may be wrapped to require user authentication before the application may be accessed. As will be discussed below some example embodiments may provide security breach remediation functionality to applications via wrapping. The platform library is described in greater detail below with respect to .

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

The user device may store in the memory e.g. in a data store a device profile and user data . The device profile may for example comprise information such as an indication of a current position of user device and or indications of various hardware software and or security attributes pertaining to the user device . For instance the device profile may represent hardware specifications of the user device version and or configuration information of various software program and or hardware components installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of the various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may additionally or alternatively comprise operational status information such as information regarding any errors or faults detected in the user device information regarding device temperature information regarding resource levels such as battery levels free storage space and or signal strengths and or the like. The device profile may additionally or alternatively comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of the user device a date of last access of the user device by an IT representative a date of last service of the user device by an IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and or usage of the user device . The device profile may additionally or alternatively comprise indications of past behavior of associated users such as resources accessed charges for resource accesses and or inventory accessed from such resources.

The user data may comprise information regarding one or more users of the user device . For example the user data may comprise one or more user preferences e.g. one or more parameters that may affect the experience of the user. Additionally or alternatively the user data may include indications of a device user s age gender bodily traits preferred resource types preferred venue resources information regarding one or more biometric signatures and or any other type of information relating to a user or combinations of such information. Additionally or alternatively the user data may include indications of one or more access levels roles policy groups or the like of a device user e.g. for use in providing varying levels of functionality and or access e.g. to protected content for different users of a given user device.

The user device may also store at least one resource in the data store . The resources may for example include any data or content such as databases applications audio video content electronic records applications and or application files and or the like. More specifically resources may include at least one of the following file types data files audio files video files three dimensional image files raster image files vector image files page layout files text files word processor files spreadsheet files presentation files graphic files audio files photographic files video files database files executable files CAD files web files plug in files font files system files settings files encoded files compressed files disk image files developer files backup files and or any other files.

Wrapped application may comprise a binary executable file whose functionality has been modified by the addition of an application wrapper . The application wrapper may for example comprise a program or application that encapsulates the application serving as an intermediary between the application and the operating system and or platform library . In this way the application wrapper may modify e.g. add to restrict enhance etc. any of the stock functionality provided by the application . For example if application is configured to be accessible without requesting user authentication wrapper may add to the functionality of the application by requiring authentication before a user can access the application . Similarly if application is configured to communicate over an unsecured e.g. unencrypted connection with a given public server the wrapper might modify this functionality by forcing the communication to take place over a secured connection or even by preventing the communication altogether. The modifications provided by the wrapper may for example comprise precompiled functions that may call out to an API such as the API depicted in . Thus app wrapping may allow additional wrapper provided functionality to be added to an existing application such as the application depicted in . In some embodiments app wrapping may be accomplished dynamically upon installation and or execution of an application without requiring recompilation of the application s source code. App wrapping may thus comprise a preferred and or more convenient means of modifying an application and may according to some embodiments even be used in instances in which source code for the application is unavailable.

In some embodiments compliance rules such as those provided by the compliance server may control which functions of the API are enabled and or used in the application and wrapped application . For example users in a sales group may be permitted by the compliance server to download an enterprise s expense submitting application without modification while users in an accounting group may receive a modified version of the same application. The modified version may rely on functionality provided by the platform library to enhance the application s security such as by adding a call to an encryption function for communications from the application that are intended for transmission over the network .

Various functions may be provided by the platform library including authentication authorization and or determination functions. Device management functions may comprise for example functions operative to determine whether user device has been compromised e.g. rooted jailbroken or the like and or to identify a location of the device via evoking and or accessing one or more location services of the device such as a GPS service and or a signal e.g. cellular or WIFI triangulation based service. Application management functions may comprise for example functions operative to encrypt data and or communications used by application and wrapped application to distribute configuration information to provide authorization and or credentials and or to provide logging and reporting functionality. Content management functions may comprise for example functions to update shared content data used by application and wrapped application and or to provide branding functionality to alter the appearance of application and wrapped application .

Other management functionality may comprise enforcing compliance rules and or restrictions distributed by compliance server which may be accomplished at the device application and or content level. Such compliance rules may comprise time date and or location based restrictions on accessing user device application wrapped application local assets and or remote assets .

Example embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to in which certain elements of an apparatus for implementing various functionality of the example embodiments are depicted. In order to implement such functionality the apparatus of may be employed for example in conjunction with one or more of the user device s the compliance server and or the resource server depicted in . However it should be noted that the apparatus of may also be employed in connection with a variety of other devices both mobile and fixed in order to implement the various functionality of the present invention and therefore embodiments of the present invention should not be limited to those depicted. It should also be noted that while illustrates one example of a configuration of an apparatus for implementing the functionality of the present invention numerous other configurations may additionally or alternatively be used to implement embodiments of the present invention. Accordingly it will be understood that various devices components and or elements depicted and or described as being in communication with each other may for example be embodied within a single device or distributed across multiple devices.

Referring now to the apparatus for providing advanced authentication techniques and or remediation of attempted security breaches according to some example embodiments of the present invention may include or otherwise be in communication with a processor a communication interface and a memory device . As described below and as indicated by the dashed lines in the apparatus may also include a user interface such as when the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device . In some embodiments the processor and or co processors or other processing circuitry assisting or otherwise associated with the processor may be in communication with the memory device via a bus configured to pass information among components of the apparatus . The memory device may for example include one or more volatile and or non volatile memories. The memory device may be configured to store information data content applications instructions or the like for enabling the apparatus to carry out various functions in accordance with an example embodiment of the present invention. For example the memory device may be configured to store instructions such as program code instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to carry out various operations.

The processor may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example the processor may be embodied as one or more of a variety of hardware processing means such as a coprocessor a microprocessor a controller a digital signal processor DSP a processing element with or without an accompanying DSP or various other processing circuitry including integrated circuits such as for example an ASIC application specific integrated circuit an FPGA field programmable gate array a microcontroller unit MCU a hardware accelerator a special purpose computer chip or the like. As such in some embodiments the processor may include one or more processing cores configured to perform independently. A multi core processor may enable multiprocessing within a single physical package. Additionally or alternatively the processor may include one or more processors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and or multithreading.

In an example embodiment the processor may be configured to execute instructions stored in the memory device or otherwise accessible to the processor . Alternatively or additionally the processor may be configured to execute hard coded functionality. As such whether configured by hardware or software methods or by a combination thereof the processor may represent an entity e.g. physically embodied in circuitry capable of performing operations according to an embodiment of the present invention while configured accordingly. Thus for example when the processor is embodied as an ASIC FPGA or the like the processor may be specifically configured hardware for conducting the operations described herein. Alternatively as another example when the processor is embodied as an executor of software instructions the instructions may specifically configure the processor to perform the algorithms and or operations described herein when the instructions are executed. However in some cases the processor may be a processor of a specific device e.g. the user device compliance server and or resource server configured to employ an embodiment of the present invention by further configuration of the processor by instructions for performing the algorithms and or operations described herein. The processor may include among other things a clock an arithmetic logic unit ALU and logic gates configured to support operation of the processor .

The communication interface may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in either hardware or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive and or transmit data from to a network such as the network and or any other device or module in communication with the apparatus . In this regard the communication interface may include for example an antenna or multiple antennas and supporting hardware and or software for enabling communications with a wireless communication network. Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include the circuitry for interacting with the antenna s to cause transmission of signals via the antenna s or to handle receipt of signals received via the antenna s . Additionally or alternatively the communication interface may include one or more antennas supporting hardware and or software and or supporting circuitry for receiving and or transmitting signals according to any short range communication protocols and or standards such as for example NFC BLUETOOTH and or BLE. In some environments the communication interface may alternatively or also support wired communication. As such for example the communication interface may include a communication modem and or other hardware software for supporting communication via cable digital subscriber line DSL universal serial bus USB or other mechanisms.

In some embodiments such as instances in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device the apparatus may include a user interface in communication with the processor to receive indications of user input and or to cause audible visual mechanical or other output to be provided to the user. As such the user interface may for example include a keyboard a mouse a joystick a display a touch screen touch areas soft keys a microphone a speaker a BCI or other input output mechanisms and or devices such as any of those discussed above in the context of the input output interfaces depicted in . The processor may be configured to control one or more functions of one or more user interface elements through computer program instructions e.g. software and or firmware stored on a memory accessible to the processor e.g. memory device . In other embodiments however such as in instances in which the apparatus is embodied by the compliance and or resource server the apparatus may not include a user interface .

It will be further understood that in embodiments in which the apparatus is embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device the memory device may for example be embodied by the memory depicted in the processor may for example be embodied by the processor depicted in the user interface may for example be embodied by the input and or output interfaces depicted in and or the communication interface may for example be embodied by one or more of the communications ports A C depicted in .

Referring now to various operations of some example embodiments of the present invention are depicted. As discussed below the operations of and or may be performed by one or more apparatuses such as the apparatus depicted in embodied by or otherwise associated with one or more of the user device s compliance server and or resource server depicted in so as to provide attempted security breach remediation capabilities.

In this regard and turning first to the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may according to some example embodiments include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving information regarding one or more compliance rules. See operation . The compliance rules may as will be discussed in more detail below include various rules that may be used in the determination of whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred and how to respond in an instance in which one has occurred. For example the compliance rules may specify when the determination should be made e.g. when a user attempts to unlock the user device the user attempts to access one or more particular applications e.g. one or more wrapped applications and or when the user attempts to access one or more resources of the user device . According to another example embodiment the compliance rules may specify how the determination is made e.g. by specifying a threshold number of failed authentication attempts and or other parameters used to determine whether an authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for receiving information regarding at least one authentication attempt. See operation . The information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may for example comprise authentication credentials e.g. information used to authenticate a user. For example the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may comprise information provided by a user e.g. via the user interface such as a username password PIN unlock pattern or the like. According to another example embodiment the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may comprise authentication credentials provided by a device such as a security fob or token a biometric sensor such as a fingerprint scanner iris scanner BCI or other sensor configured to capture any type of biometric information or any other device that may be used in authenticating a user. According to some example embodiments the one or more authentication credentials may comprise one or more composite authentication credentials as discussed in further detail below. According to another example embodiment the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may additionally or alternatively comprise one or more indicia of a user s e.g. the user attempting to authenticate themselves state of mind such as bodily indicia of their level of composure nervousness or the like. For example the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may comprise information regarding a user s pupil dilation perspiration e.g. skin conductance pulse breathing rate brain activity e.g. brain wave profile or any other bodily indicia of a user s state of mind. Such bodily indicia may for example be captured via one or more sensing devices communicatively connected to the apparatus and according to some embodiments housed in the user device . According to yet another example embodiment the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may additionally or alternatively comprise an indication of whether a given authentication attempt was successful or not such as a signal from an external device configured to authenticate a user such as the compliance server or the like. According to some example embodiments the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt may comprise contextual information such as time and or location data e.g. a time and or location at which the authentication attempt occurred.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for determining whether the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. See operation . The determination may for example be made based at least in part on the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt. For instance one example embodiment may determine whether a threshold number of failed login attempts has been exceeded such as be determining based on the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt whether the authentication attempt is a failed authentication attempt incrementing a counter in an instance in which it is and comparing this counter against the threshold. The apparatus may thus determine that the authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach if the threshold is exceeded.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus may determine a degree of difference and or similarity between received authentication credentials and expected e.g. correct authentication credentials and additionally or alternatively base the determination of whether the authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach based at least in part on the degree of difference or similarity such as by comparing the degree of difference or similarity to a threshold. For example if a password is being used as the authentication credentials then a high degree of similarity between the received and expected credentials may indicate a typo as opposed to an attempted security breach while a high degree of difference may indicate a user is attempting a security breach e.g. by guessing passwords.

According to further example embodiments the apparatus may additionally or alternatively determine whether the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach based at least in part one or more indicia of a user s state of mind such as any or all of the bodily indicia mentioned above. For example some embodiments may determine one or more values of the bodily indicia and compare the one or more values against one or more thresholds. Thus the apparatus of some example embodiments may determine that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred based on one or more indicia that a user is nervous as they attempt to authenticate themselves such as based on the person having high skin conductivity e.g. they are sweating an elevated pulse and or a brain wave profile indicative of nervousness.

According to other example embodiments the apparatus may additionally or alternatively determine whether the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach based at least in part on contextual information such as a time or location associated with the authentication attempt. For example a failed authentication attempt made at a suspicious hour e.g. within or outside of one or more designated time periods and or in a suspicious location e.g. within or outside of one or more geofenced areas may be determined to comprise a suspected attempted security breach. According to still other example embodiments the apparatus may determine whether the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach by receiving an indication from another device in communication therewith such as from the compliance server that the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach.

It will be understood that as discussed above the information regarding the one or more compliance rules may specify at least in part how the apparatus determines whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred. Thus for example any of the thresholds conditions or the like discussed in the context of the foregoing example embodiments may be provided as part of or determined based on the information regarding the one or more compliance rules received in operation . For instance the information regarding the one or more compliance rules may provide the threshold number of failed authentication attempts the threshold degrees of similarity and or difference between the received and expected authentication credentials the designated time periods and or geofenced areas and or any other thresholds conditions or the like which may be useful in determining in combination with the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt whether the at least one authentication attempt comprises an attempted security breach. It will be further understood that the apparatus may according to some example embodiments be configured to determine a likelihood e.g. a probability that a given authentication attempt comprises an attempted security breach and may for example compare this against a threshold probability to determine whether the authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. According to some example embodiments such a threshold probability may like the other thresholds discussed above be received as part of or determined based at least in part on the information regarding the one or more compliance rules.

According to some example embodiments in which the information regarding the at least one authentication attempt comprises at least one composite authentication credential the apparatus may be configured to determine whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred based at least in part on one or more components of the at least one composite authentication credential. In particular the apparatus may be configured according to some example embodiments to determine whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred based at least in part on the validity of the various components. That is the apparatus may be configured to determine whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred based at least in part on which of the one or more components of a composite authentication credential is responsible for a failed authentication attempt. Thus for example the apparatus may not determine that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred in an instance in which a first component such as a sequential component of the composite authentication credential is invalid. On the other hand the same apparatus may determine that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred in an instance in which a second component such as a biometric component of the composite authentication credential is invalid. Any number of other configurations are also possible such as the apparatus being configured to determine that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred in an instance in which all components are invalid or in an instance in which a particular combination of one or more components of an n component composite authentication credential are invalid.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for causing at least one recording to be captured. See operation . According to some example embodiments the recording may be caused to be captured in an instance in which the apparatus has determined that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred. The apparatus may for example cause at least one recording to be captured by one or more recording and or sensing devices in communication with the apparatus by generating and transmitting a signal to such devices the signal comprising one or more instructions e.g. to begin a capture procedure and or parameters e.g. for performing the capture procedure. The recording and or sensing devices may for example comprise one or more cameras e.g. still video infrared and or 3D such as time of flight TOF cameras and or any other types of cameras and or microphones. The recording and or sensing devices may additionally or alternatively comprise one or more biometric sensors such as fingerprint scanners iris scanners and or any other type of recording and or sensing device configured to capture biometric data. Thus the recording may according to some embodiments comprise one or more of an image a video a sound recording and or various biometric data. The apparatus may further include means such as those listed above for receiving the recording from the one or more recording and or sensing devices in communication therewith.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for causing at least a portion of the at least one recording to be compared against at least one database. See operation . According to some embodiments causing the portion of the at least one recording to be compared against the at least one database may comprise causing the portion of the at least one recording to be transmitted to an external device such as the compliance server or resource server that stores or is in communication with a device that stores the at least one database. According to some other example embodiments the at least one database may be stored locally such as in the memory of the apparatus .

Regardless of where the database resides it may according to some example embodiments include information regarding one or more persons. For example the at least one database may comprise one or more employee databases e.g. databases including information regarding one or more current and or former employees and or criminal databases e.g. databases including information regarding one or more convicted and or accused criminals . Such databases may for example associate various types of personal information such as names contact information or the like to various types of identifying information. The identifying information may for example comprise information that may be used to identify a person in the one or more databases based at least in part on the recording captured during operation . For example the identifying information for any given person in the one or more databases may comprise one or more photos of the person one or more recordings of the person s voice information regarding one or more of the person s fingerprints image data regarding one or more of the person s irises or any other types of identifying information capable of being recorded via or derived from a recording captured via one or more recording and or sensing devices. Such databases may additionally or alternatively associate security information to the various types of identifying information. For example an entry for a given person in the database may include information identifying that person as trusted authorized untrusted unauthorized or the like. The security information may further be associated with one or more particular user devices services locations etc. such that a person may be trusted authorized untrusted unauthorized or the like with respect to one or more devices services and or the like. Such security information may for example be derived from or form the basis of one or more compliance rules policy groups and or the like. Some example embodiments may employ various secure and or privacy preserving mechanisms e.g. to avoid transmitting and or storing raw identifying information. For example the identifying information may be stored in an encrypted and or hashed form in the at least one database and the apparatus may include means such as those mentioned above for determining a hashed and or encrypted version of the portion of the recording such that hashed and or encrypted versions of the portion of the recording may be compared. It will be understood that any or all of the information described above may be spread across a plurality of databases including databases that might reside in different physical locations.

It will be understood that according to some example embodiments the apparatus may perform operation prior to operation . That is some example embodiments may cause the at least one recording to be captured regardless of whether it is determined that the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. Thus some example embodiments may instead selectively perform operation causing at least a portion of the at least one recording to be compared against at least one database in an instance in which it is determined that the at least one authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach.

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for causing at least a portion of the information regarding the at least one authorization attempt received during operation to be transmitted. See operation . The information may for example be transmitted to the compliance server . According to some example embodiments the information may be used by an external devices such as the compliance server to determine whether the at least one authorization attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. This determination may for example be made in the same manner as discussed in the context of operation . Accordingly in some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as those discussed above for receiving an indication of whether the authorization attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach operation not depicted . That is the determination of whether an authorization attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach may according to some example embodiments be made locally e.g. by the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device or externally e.g. by the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with another electronic devices such as the compliance server . It will thus be understood that some example embodiments may perform operation prior to operation .

According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the processor the memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving a communication regarding at least one remedial action. See operation . The communication may for example comprise one or more instructions and or parameters regarding the at least one remedial action. According to some example embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as those listed above for causing the at least one remedial action to be performed. See operation . The apparatus may for example cause the remedial action to be performed in accordance with the one or more instructions and or parameters. Such remedial actions including examples thereof will be discussed in further detail below in the context of .

It will be understood that any or all of the functionality discussed above may be provided and or facilitated via the application wrapping techniques discussed above in the context of . That is according to some example embodiments an application may be wrapped with an application wrapper configured to provide e.g. including one or more program code portions configured to upon execution cause an apparatus to provide certain wrapper provided functionality which may for example include requiring user authentication before allowing access to at least a portion of the stock functionality provided by the underlying application . According to some example embodiments the application wrapper may additionally or alternatively be configured to provide e.g. including one or more program code portions configured to upon execution cause an apparatus to provide the functionality associated with any or all of operations and or as discussed above.

Having thus described functionality that may be provided in association with a user device attention will be turned to to discuss corresponding functionality that may be provided in association with another electronic device such as the compliance server and or resource server . In this regard an apparatus such as the apparatus depicted in may be embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server and may comprise means for carrying out the operations depicted in .

For instance the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for causing information regarding one or more compliance rules to be transmitted e.g. to one or more user devices . See operation . The compliance rules may as was discussed above in the context of include various rules that may be used in the determination of whether a given authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach and or how to respond in an instance in which such a determination is made.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving information regarding at least one authentication attempt. See operation . As discussed above in the context of the information may for example comprise authentication credentials indicia of a user s state of mind contextual information and or various other information regarding the at least one authentication attempt. The information may for example be received from one or more user devices and or from various other sources.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving at least a portion of at least one recording. See operation . As discussed above the at least one recording may have been captured and or transmitted in response to a determination that an authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach. According to some example embodiments and as was discussed above in the context of the at least one recording may comprise one or more image s video s sound recording s and or various biometric data.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for causing at least a portion of the recording to be compared against at least one database. See operation . As discussed above the at least one database may include information regarding at least one person such as a database associating personal and or security information with one or more identifiers. The apparatus may thus according to an example embodiment compare at least a portion of the at least one recording to the identifiers included in the at least one database such as by submitting to the at least one database one or more queries comprising and or generated based at least in part on the portion of the at least one recording. Such queries may according to some example embodiments additionally include device profile information such as information included in the device profile depicted in and or user data such as the user data depicted in .

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving a result of the comparison of the portion of the recording against the at least one database. See operation . The result may for example comprise information regarding one or more persons such as one or more persons determined to match the portion of the at least one recording. Such information may for example be returned in response to the one or more queries mentioned above. The information may according to some example embodiments include one or more identifiers of one or more matching persons included in the database. According to some other example embodiments the result may additionally or alternatively comprise security information for one or more matching persons such as any of the security information discussed above.

It will be understood that according to some example embodiments multiple databases may be queried. For example multiple databases may be queried at substantially the same time so as to receive multiple results. According to some embodiments multiple databases may additionally or alternatively be queried in a sequence such as by using a result of an initial query to a database being used as the basis of a subsequent query to another or in some cases the same database. That is some example embodiments may receive a first result from a first database generate a query based on that result submit the query to a second database and receive an additional result from the second database. As a more specific example a first database may be queried using at least a portion of the at least one recording and an identity of a person may be returned as a result. This identity may then be used as the basis of an additional query of a second database such as a criminal database or an employee database which may return a result such as in the case of the criminal database information regarding the person s criminal background or in the case of an employee database whether the person is authorized to access the device. This process of chaining results and queries may be repeated any number of times and with any number of databases.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for determining one or more remedial actions. See operation . The determination may for example be made based at least in part on the one or more results received in operation . Remedial actions may for example include actions such as contacting one or more persons such as police an owner of the user device an administrator and or any other person restricting access to at least a portion of the data and or resources of the user device such as by locking the user device and or encrypting or wiping at least a portion of the memory of the user device causing one or more location services of the user device to be engaged such as by turning on one or more GPS receivers of the device transmitting a location of the device such as to the compliance server and or one or more persons such as any of the previously listed persons presenting one or more notifications such as via an output interface of the user device triggering one or more alarms preventing further authentication attempts disabling one or more functions features and or services of the user device activating at least one activity recording service of the user device such as an activity logging service and or any other type of action that may tend to render the device less usable assist in recovery of the user device and or assist in apprehending a person responsible for the suspected attempted security breach. Other remedial actions may provide authentication assistance such as by prompting the user for alternative authentication credentials offering to change or reset existing authentication credentials contacting technical support and or any other type of action that may tend to assist the user in successfully authenticating.

The determination of one or more remedial actions may further be based at least in part on one or more remedial action rules that associate one or more results with one or more remedial actions. For example a rule may provide that in an instance in which a received result indicates a person as being unauthorized e.g. not authorized to access the user device one or more remedial actions are to be performed that may tend to render the device less usable assist in recovery of the user device and or assist in apprehending a person responsible for the suspected attempted security breach. The same or another rule may according to another example provide that in an instance in which a received result indicates a person as being authorized e.g. authorized to access the user device one or more remedial actions are to be performed that may tend to provide authentication assistance. As an additional more specific example a remedial action rule may provide that in an instance in which a received result indicates a criminal background e.g. in an instance in which a person responsible for the suspected attempted security breach the person identified during operations and has a criminal background according to a criminal database the user device should be locked an alarm should be triggered the user device should active a location service and begin transmitting it s current location and police should be notified. These remedial action rules may for example be included in the one or more compliance rules discussed above and thus may according to some example embodiments be transmitted to the user device e.g. during operation .

According to further example embodiments the remedial actions provided in the rules may additionally be associated with one or more conditions. The conditions may for example comprise various types of contextual information such as time location or the like. Additionally rules may employ various logical operators and or control flow operators such as Boolean operators conditional statements e.g. if then else statements and or the like for increased flexibility and complexity. For example a rule may provide that in an instance in which a received result indicates an unauthorized user or a criminal background the user device should be immediately locked and should be wiped in 5 minutes unless a user successfully authenticates. The rule may further provide that if the device is moved more than 50 feet the device should begin transmitting it s location contact the authorities and immediately be wiped. A multitude of other example rules may be provided by other example embodiments.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for causing at least one of the one or more remedial actions to be performed. See operation . Causing at least one of the one or more remedial actions to be performed may for example comprise causing one or more instructions to be transmitted e.g. to the user device such as instructions to perform the one or more remedial actions and or one or more parameters conditions and or the like related to the performance of the one or more remedial actions.

According to some example embodiments instructions to perform the one or more remedial actions may not be sent to the user device. Instead causing the one or more remedial actions to be performed may comprise causing an indication of the one or more results received in operation to be transmitted e.g. to the user device . According to these example embodiments the information regarding the compliance rules discussed above in the context of operations may include information regarding the remedial action rules discussed above. Thus according to these embodiments the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may include means such as those discussed above in the context of for determining based at least in part on the indication of the result and the one or more remedial action rules one or more remedial actions to be performed. The apparatus may thus further include means for causing the one or more remedial actions to be performed.

Thus some example embodiments may provide for server side rule evaluation with instructions being sent to the user device while other example embodiments may provide for user device side rule evaluation. Accordingly an apparatus associated with the compliance server and or resource server may according to some example embodiments evaluate one or more remedial action rules based on one or more database query results and may cause remedial action instructions to be transmitted to a client device. According to other example embodiments an apparatus associated with the compliance server and or resource server may provide remedial action rules and the result s of the query or queries to the user device so that an apparatus associated with the user device may evaluate the rules locally and cause appropriate remedial actions to be performed. According to still further example embodiments a hybrid approach may be used such that for example some portion of the rules are evaluated server side and some evaluated user device side. According to other example embodiments some remedial actions may be caused to be performed by the apparatus associated with the user device while some remedial actions may be caused to be performed by the apparatus associated with the compliance server and or resource server . Responsibility for such remedial actions may for example be determined based on the remedial action rules such as by including a responsible device in the rules or by distributing to the user device only those rules that should be evaluated at least in part by and or those rules including remedial actions that should be performed at least in part by the user device .

Having thus described functionality associated with the provision of suspected attempted security breach remediation attention will now be turned to to discuss functionality associated with providing advanced authentication techniques. In this regard an apparatus such as the apparatus depicted in may be embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device the compliance server and or resource server and may comprise means for carrying out the operations depicted in .

For instance the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for causing information regarding one or more compliance rules to be transmitted e.g. to one or more user devices . A corresponding apparatus embodied by the one or more user devices may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for receiving the information regarding the one or more compliance rules. See operation . As was discussed above in the context of the compliance rules may include various rules that may be used in the determination of whether a given authentication attempt comprises a suspected attempted security breach and or how to respond in an instance in which such a determination is made.

For instance the compliance rules according to some example embodiments may comprise rules relating the validity of one or more authentication components of a composite authentication credential to the determination of whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred. For example a compliance rule may provide that an invalid first credential component e.g. a biometric credential component results in a determination that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred while an invalid second credential component e.g. a sequential component results in a determination that a suspected attempted security breach has not occurred. Other example embodiments may provide for additional or alternative relationships such as an invalid third credential component resulting in a determination that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred or that a combination of invalid credential components such as all credential components or a plurality of particular components results in a determination that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred.

According to some example embodiments the compliance rules may additionally or alternatively comprise one or more remedial action rules such as one or more remedial action rules relating the validity of one or more authentication components of a composite authentication credential to the determination of one or more remedial actions. For example a compliance rule may provide that an invalid first credential component e.g. a biometric credential component results in a determination of a first remedial action while an invalid second credential component e.g. a sequential component results in a determination of a second remedial action. Other example embodiments may provide for additional or alternative relationships such as an invalid third credential component resulting in a determination of third remedial action or that a combination of invalid credential components such as all credential components or a plurality of particular components results in a determination of a fourth remedial action.

According to some example embodiments any of the above rules may include Boolean operators and or the like further enhancing their complexity and flexibility. For example a compliance rule may provide that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred in an instance in which either a second authentication credential component is invalid or a first and third authentication component are invalid. Another example compliance rule may additionally or alternatively provide that a first remedial action is to be performed in an instance in which a first or second credential component is invalid while a second remedial action is to be performed in an instance in which both the first and second credential components are invalid. Compliance rules according to further example embodiments may additionally relate the determination of whether a suspected attempted security breach has occurred to the various remedial actions such as by providing that a first remedial action is to be performed in an instance in which it is determined that a suspected attempted security breach has occurred and a second credential component is invalid. Many other rule variations will come to the minds of those skilled in the art.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for receiving a request to access at least one resource. See operation . The resource may for example comprise a resource resident on or accessible via a mobile device such as the user device . The at least one resource may additionally or alternatively comprise an enterprise resource such as may be resident on the resource server or any other server. The at least one resource may for example comprise content application s or any other types of resources discussed above such as in the context of the resources depicted in . In the context of the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device receiving a request to access at least one resource may for example comprise receiving user selection such as via the user interface of the at least one resource or receiving a request such as from at least one application and or function of the user device to access the at least one resource. According to some example embodiments the user device may include screen locking and or disablement functionality or the like which may prevent access to various resources of the user device such that receiving the request to access the at least one resource may comprise receiving a request to unlock the device enable the screen etc. In the context of the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the compliance server and or resource server receiving a request to access at least one resource may comprise receiving the request from the user device such as a request to access at least one enterprise resource resident on the compliance server and or resource server .

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for receiving at least one composite authentication credential. See operation . It will be understood that some example embodiments may employ local authentication such that the one or more composite authentication credentials may be received and their validity may be evaluated by an apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device . According to some other example embodiments authentication may take place remotely such as at the compliance server and or resource server such that the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device may further include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface and or the like for causing the composite authentication credentials to be transmitted to the compliance server and or resource server .

According to some example embodiments a composite authentication credential may comprise a plurality of authentication credential components. Such authentication credential components may for example include one or more user specific authentication credential components such as one or more biometric authentication components and one or more user definable components such as one or more sequential authentication credential components. Such user definable components may according to some example embodiments be reset and or changed by a user. For example an authentication assistance action may prompt a user to reset and or change such a user definable authentication credential component. According to some example embodiments each authentication credential component may comprise one or more elements. For example a biometric signature component e.g. a fingerprint component may comprise one or more biometric signature elements e.g. fingerprints from one or more of a user s fingers.

According to some example embodiments the various components of a composite authentication credential may be received concurrently such as by receiving the elements of one or more credential components in a particular sequence corresponding to a sequential component. For example a composite authentication credential may comprise a first biometric authentication component comprising a plurality of biometric signature elements such as a plurality of fingerprints corresponding to each of a user s fingers. The composite authentication credential may further comprise a second sequential authentication component comprising a particular sequence of the plurality of fingerprints. Accordingly receiving this example composite authentication credential may comprise receiving via a biometric sensor such as a fingerprint scanner a plurality of fingerprint scans in a particular sequence.

It will be understood that some example embodiments may employ composite authentication credentials comprising authentication components consisting of a single element. For example a biometric authentication component might consist of a fingerprint from a single finger or an iris image from a single eye. Such example embodiments might still employ sequential authentication components by for example incorporating pauses and or timing information into the sequence. For example by varying one or more of the length of time that the single biometric signature element is presented and or the length of time of pauses between presenting the single biometric signature element a Morse code like sequence may be created. The use of timing information and or pauses may also be incorporated into composite authentication credentials having biometric components comprising multiple biometric signature elements. For instance a composite authentication credential might comprise a first fingerprint biometric component consisting of fingerprints from one or more fingers a second iris image biometric component consisting of iris images from one or more eyes and a sequential component. The sequential component may for example define a sequence comprising a combination of one or more of the fingerprints from the one or more fingers one or more iris images from the one or more eyes and or one or more pauses each of these sequential elements having according to some example embodiments timing information respectively associated therewith. A user might thus provide a composite authentication credential such as right eye long pause short right index finger short left ring finger long pause long left eye long .

Turning briefly to a diagrammatic representation of an example composite authentication credential illustrating a number of the above concepts is depicted. As shown the composite authentication credential may comprise two or more components such as a biometric component and a sequential component . As shown the biometric component may comprise one or more biometric signature elements such as the iris biometric signature element A the first fingerprint biometric signature element B and the second fingerprint biometric signature element C. Such biometric signature elements may be associated with identifiers such as the depicted A B and C identifiers which may be referenced by the sequential component . As shown the sequential component may comprise one or more sequential elements . For instance the depicted sequential component includes the A B and C identifiers associated with respective biometric elements as well as a number of pause elements. The sequential element may further include timing information depicted here as dashes of varying length respectively associated with the various sequential elements .

It will be understood that although a single biometric component consisting of multiple biometric signature elements A C is depicted here and indeed even consisting of multiple different types of biometric elements an iris biometric signature element A and two fingerprint biometric signature elements B C example embodiments may include two or more of such biometric components. For example the depicted composite authentication credential could have been configured to include a first biometric component comprising the iris biometric signature element A and a second biometric component comprising the fingerprint biometric signature elements B C. As another example the depicted composite authentication credential could have been configured to include first second and third biometric components each respectively comprising one of the biometric signature elements B C. Other example configurations are possible as well.

It will be further understood that composite authentication credentials may according to some example embodiments comprise multiple sequential authentication components. For example some embodiments may employ one or more sequential authentication components comprising one or more alphanumeric elements such as elements of one or more PINs or passwords. Some example embodiments may provide the ability to receive such alphanumeric elements concurrently with one or more biometric components such as by providing a keypad entry device comprising one or more biometric sensor devices such that for example fingerprints may be captured concurrently with entry of the one or more alphanumeric components.

According to another example embodiment and returning now to the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for determining whether one or more authentication credential components are valid. See e.g. operations and . Determining whether a given credential component is valid may for example comprise comparing the received credential component to one or more known valid credential components. According to some example embodiments the credential component may be hashed and or encrypted and compared to one or more known valid credential components that have also been hashed and or encrypted. According to some example embodiments determining whether a given credential component is valid may comprise causing the credential component to be transmitted to an external device such as to the compliance server and or resource server and receiving an indication of validity from the external device. It will be understood that although depicts determining whether first and second credential components are valid composite authentication credentials may comprise three or more authentication credential components and thus some example embodiments may be accordingly configured to determine the validity of three or more credential components.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for causing one or more remedial actions to be performed. See e.g. operations and . As shown a given remedial action may for example be caused to be performed in an instance in which it is determined that one or more of the credential components is invalid. For example a first remedial action may be caused to be performed in an instance in which a first credential component is invalid which a second remedial action may be caused to be performed in an instance in which a second credential component is invalid. According to some other example embodiments a third remedial action may be caused to be performed in an instance in which both a first and second credential component are invalid. According to other example embodiments having three or more credential components particular combinations of invalid credential components e.g. first and second or first and third may trigger particular remedial actions. Any number of such combinations may be provided according to other example embodiments. As discussed above some example embodiments may determine one or more remedial actions based at least in part on one or more compliance rules along with the validity of the one or more credential components.

As discussed above remedial actions may include one or more actions that may tend to render the device less usable assist in recovery of the user device and or assist in apprehending a person responsible for the suspected attempted security breach. Other example remedial actions may comprise authentication assistance actions such as prompting the user for alternative authentication credentials offering to change or reset one or more components of an existing composite authentication credential contacting technical support and or any other type of action that may tend to assist the user in successfully authenticating.

According to another example embodiment the apparatus embodied by or otherwise associated with the user device compliance server and or resource server may include means such as the at least one processor the at least one memory the communication interface the user interface and or the like for causing access to the requested resource to be permitted. See operation . Causing access to the at least one resource to be permitted may for example comprise causing the user device to enter an unlocked state such as by displaying a home screen or the like establishing a connection with a provider of the resource such as the resource server unencrypting the requested resource opening the requested resource and or any other operation that would allow access to the requested resource.

As described above and illustrate flowcharts of example apparatuses methods and computer program products according to example embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowchart may be implemented by various means such as hardware firmware processor circuitry and or other devices associated with execution of software including one or more computer program instructions. For example one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer program instructions. According to some example embodiments such computer program instructions may be embodied as an application wrapper.

In this regard the computer program instructions that embody the procedures described above may be stored by a memory device of an apparatus employing an embodiment of the present invention and executed by a processor of the apparatus . As will be appreciated any such computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus e.g. hardware to produce a machine such that the resulting computer or other programmable apparatus implements the functions specified in the flowchart blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that may direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture the execution of which implements the function specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide operations for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart support combinations of means for performing the specified functions and combinations of operations for performing the specified functions for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that one or more blocks of the flowchart and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover although the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings describe example embodiments in the context of certain example combinations of elements and or functions it should be appreciated that different combinations of elements and or functions may be provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. For example in some embodiments certain ones of the operations described above may be modified or enhanced. Furthermore in some embodiments additional optional operations may be included. Modifications additions or enhancements to the operations above may be performed in any order and in any combination.

Accordingly different combinations of elements and or functions than those explicitly described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

