---

title: Monitor and control of directional drilling operations and simulations
abstract: Various embodiments include apparatus and methods that use hand mobile communications device with respect to a drilling operation at a drilling site. Data with respect to one or more sensors downhole at a drilling site can be wirelessly received in the hand mobile communications device. Representations of the received data can be displayed on a graphical user interface screen of the hand mobile communications device. The representations can include displaying the data in a graphical representation, a numerical representation, or a graphical and numerical representation on the graphical user interface screen. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09359882&OS=09359882&RS=09359882
owner: Halliburton Energy Services, Inc.
number: 09359882
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 442 037 filed Feb. 9 2010 which is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application Number PCT US2007 020867 filed Sep. 27 2007 and published in English as WO 2008 039523 A1 on Apr. 3 2008 which claims the benefit under U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 827 209 filed Sep. 27 2006 under 35 U.S.C. 119 e which applications and publication are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The application relates generally to downhole drilling. In particular the application relates to a monitoring and control of directional drilling operations and simulations.

Directional drilling operations typically allow for greater recovery of hydrocarbons from reservoirs downhole.

Methods apparatus and systems for monitor and control of directional drilling operations simulations are described. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.

This description of the embodiments is divided into five sections. The first section describes a system operating environment. The second section describes a computer operating environment. The third section describes graphical and numerical representations for a directional drilling operation simulation. The fourth section describes load monitoring among downhole components. The fifth section provides some general comments.

Embodiments allow for monitoring and controlling of directional drilling operations and simulations. Embodiments may include graphical and numerical output of data received and processed from different sensors including those at the surface and downhole . A rotary drilling bottom hole assembly BHA downhole drilling motor drilling turbine or downhole drilling tool such as a rotary steerable tool allows for directional drilling. The functioning of a BHA downhole drilling motor drilling turbine or rotary steerable tool in the dynamic downhole environment of an oilwell is relatively complex since operating parameters applied at surface such as flow rate weight on bit and drill string rotation rate are combined with other characteristics of the downhole drilling operation. These other characteristics include formation characteristics such as rock strength and geothermal temperature characteristics of additional tools that are incorporated in the BHA such as the drill bit characteristics of the drilling fluids such as lubricity etc.

The application of sub optimal operating parameters excessive operating parameters and the undertaking of inappropriate actions during specific functional occurrences during motor operations downhole are some of the problems that are encountered during a directional drilling operation.

Design engineers support engineers marketing personnel repair and maintenance personnel and various members of a customer s personnel may never be present on a rig floor. Also there can be an effective disconnection between the directional driller on the rig floor and a functioning BHA downhole drilling motor drilling turbine or rotary steerable tool thousands of feet below surface. Therefore such persons do not have an accurate appreciation of the effect that surface applied operating parameters and the downhole operating environment can have on a drilling motor drilling turbine or a rotary steerable tool as the motor tool functions downhole.

Using some embodiments operations personnel design engineers support engineers marketing personnel repair and maintenance personnel and customers can potentially add to their understanding of BHAs downhole drilling motors drilling turbines and rotary steerable tools in terms of the rig floor applied operating parameters and the resulting loads that they produce on motors tools which ultimately affect motor tool performance. A more advanced understanding of the functioning of BHAs downhole drilling motors drilling turbines or rotary steerable tools by personnel from various disciplines would produce benefits form the design phase through to the post operational problem investigation and analysis phase.

Embodiments would allow users to effectively train on a simulator through the control of the BHA downhole drilling motor drilling turbine or rotary steerable tool operations while avoiding the cost and potential safety training issues normally associated with rigsite and dynamometer testing operations. Embodiments would encourage a better understanding of the balance of motor tool input and output with respect to the characteristics of the downhole operating environment and also with respect to motor tool efficiency reliability and longevity.

Some embodiments provide a graphical user interface GUI for monitoring a directional drilling operation. Some embodiments may be used in an actual drilling operation. Alternatively or in addition some embodiments may be used in a simulation for training of operators for directional drilling. Data from sensors at the surface and downhole may be processed. A graphical and numerical representation of the operations downhole may be provided based on the processed data. Some embodiments may illustrate the performance of the BHA downhole drilling motor drilling turbine and rotary steerable tool used in directional drilling operations. Some embodiments may graphically illustrate the rotations per minute RPMs of and the torque applied by the downhole motor drilling turbine or rotary steerable tool the operating differential pressure across the motor turbine tool etc. A cross sectional view of the motor turbine tool within the drill string may be graphically shown. This view may show the rotations of the drill string in combination with the motor turbine and tool. Accordingly the driller may visually track the speed of rotation of the drilling motor rotary steerable tool and adjust if necessary. The following description and accompanying figures describe the monitoring and control of a drilling motor. Such description is also applicable to various types of rotary BHA s drilling turbines and rotary steerable tools.

Drilling fluid is pumped from a pit at the surface through the line into the drill string and to the drill bit . After flowing out through the face of the drill bit the drilling fluid rises back to the surface through the annular area between the drillstring the borehole . At the surface the drilling fluid is collected and returned to the pit for filtering. The drilling fluid is used to lubricate and cool the drill bit and to remove cuttings from the borehole .

The downhole controller controls the operation of telemetry transmitter and orchestrates the operation of downhole components. The controller processes data received from the logging tool and or sensors in the instrument sub and produces encoded signals for transmission to the surface via the telemetry transmitter . In some embodiments telemetry is in the form of mud pulses within the drill string and which mud pulses are detected at the surface by a mud pulse receiver . Other telemetry systems may be equivalently used e.g. acoustic telemetry along the drill string wired drill pipe etc. . In addition to the downhole sensors the system may include a number of sensors at the surface of the rig floor to monitor different operations e.g. rotation rate of the drill string mud flow rate etc. .

In some embodiments the data from the downhole and the surface sensors is processed for display as further described below . The processor components that process such data may be downhole and or at the surface. For example one or more processors in a downhole tool may process the downhole data. Alternatively or in addition one or more processors either at the rig site and or at a remote location may process the data. Moreover the processed data may then be numerically and graphically displayed as further described below .

An example computer system which may be used to process and or display the data is now described. In particular illustrates a computer that executes software for performing operations according to some embodiments of the invention. The computer system may be representative of various components in the system . For example the computer system may be representative of parts of the downhole tool a computer local to the rig site a computer remote to the rig site etc.

As illustrated in the computer system comprises processor s . The computer system also includes a memory unit processor bus and Input Output controller hub ICH . The processor s memory unit and ICH are coupled to the processor bus . The processor s may comprise any suitable processor architecture. The computer system may comprise one two three or more processors any of which may execute a set of instructions in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

The memory unit may store data and or instructions and may comprise any suitable memory such as a dynamic random access memory DRAM . The computer system also includes IDE drive s and or other suitable storage devices. A graphics controller controls the display of information on a display device according to some embodiments of the invention.

The input output controller hub ICH provides an interface to I O devices or peripheral components for the computer system . The ICH may comprise any suitable interface controller to provide for any suitable communication link to the processor s memory unit and or to any suitable device or component in communication with the ICH . For one embodiment of the invention the ICH provides suitable arbitration and buffering for each interface.

For some embodiments of the invention the ICH provides an interface to one or more suitable integrated drive electronics IDE drives such as a hard disk drive HDD or compact disc read only memory CD ROM drive or to suitable universal serial bus USB devices through one or more USB ports . For one embodiment the ICH also provides an interface to a keyboard a mouse a CD ROM drive one or more suitable devices through one or more firewire ports . For one embodiment of the invention the ICH also provides a network interface though which the computer system can communicate with other computers and or devices.

In some embodiments the computer system includes a machine readable medium that stores a set of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies for described herein. Furthermore software may reside completely or at least partially within memory unit and or within the processor s .

Directional drilling is based on decisions being made by the directional driller which are the result of information being made available to the driller at the rig floor in logging units at the rig site not at the rig floor and on the directional driller s conceptions about equipment performance and functioning. The decisions made by the directional driller have a direct bearing on the drilling operating parameters applied at surface to drilling tools downhole. Embodiments provide for real time representation of comprehensive directional drilling data at rig floor on an intrinsically safe computer or purged driller s control unit or dog house at rig site data logging unit or office and remotely office or dedicated Remote Technical Operations RTO Center of the directional drilling supplier and or oil company .

An important part of the directional drilling process is the interaction of the drill bit with the formation in terms of the torque and RPM applied to the drill bit and the loading imparted into the formation to locally fail and remove the formation. Another important part is how the torque and RPM applied at the drill bit causes reactive mechanical loadings in the bottom hole drilling assembly tools which affect the trajectory of the hole drilled.

Maintaining a consistent level of torque and revolutions on the drill bit may achieve and maintain good formation penetration rate good hole directional control etc. Moreover this consistent level allows the maximization of the reliability and longevity of various downhole drilling tools in the bottom hole drilling assembly fluctuating mechanical and pressure loadings accelerate the wear and fatigue of components .

While drilling the drill bit has a number of sources of excitation and loading. These sources may cause the bit speed to fluctuate the bit to vibrate the bit to be excessively forced into the formation and in some cases the bit to actually bounce off the hole bottom. The application of weight to the bit by slacking off the rig hook load may be a source of excitation and loading. There can be a number of these sources which can negatively affect the face of the drill bit and formation interaction. For example some of the weight applied at surface at times is not transmitted to the drill bit because the drillstring and bottom hole assembly contact the casing and hole wall causing substantial frictional losses. The drill string can then suddenly free off resulting in remaining previously hung up weight being abruptly transferred to the drill bit with resulting heavy reaction loadings being applied to the tools internals and housings in the bottom hole drilling assembly. Another example of such a source relates to the application of torque at the surface. At times not all of the torque is transmitted to the drill bit. The drill string may be subsequently freed such that high torsional loadings may be abruptly applied to tools in the bottom hole drilling assembly.

Another example of sources of excitation and loading relate to floating semi submersible drilling rigs and drillships. In such operations the consistent application of weight to the bit is undertaken via the use of wave heave compensators. However these compensators can often not be 100 effective and harsh weather can also exceed their capability. Weight applied at the bit fluctuates significantly which can cause great difficulty when undertaking more precise directional control drilling operations. In some cases the bit can actually lift off bottom.

The above scenarios are often not observable at surface by the directional driller. Embodiments may process relevant data. Through graphic and numerical representation embodiments may indicate fluctuations in the drill bit rotation and in drilling motor rotary steerable tool output torque and RPM characteristics. The grouped presentation of this data has not been previously available to the live rig floor directional drilling process. Embodiments also allow such events to be considered in detail from recorded well data and contingencies to be established. Some embodiments are applicable to rotary drilling assemblies where there is no drilling motor in the bottom hole drilling assembly such as rotary steerable drilling assemblies.

Until now the data which is available in relation to the directional drilling process has not been available to the directional driller in real time in one location. Moreover conventional techniques have required a significant level of conception by the directional driller and ideally have included interpretation and input by specialists other than the directional driller who are not present on the rig floor. As the electronic instrumentation of downhole drilling tools continues to develop ever increasing amounts of data are becoming available from downhole on which the directional drilling process can be made more efficient and effective.

Embodiments provide a central platform on which to display dynamic numerical and graphical data together. In addition to displaying data generated by sensors contained within downhole tools embodiments may provide a platform where alongside sensor data very recently developed and further developing cutting edge directional drilling engineering modeling data can be jointly displayed. Moreover embodiments may interpret and provide a dynamic indication of occurrences downhole that have to date otherwise gone unnoticed live at the rig floor by the directional driller e.g. drilling motor rotary steerable tool micro stalling downhole vibration and drill bit stick slip etc. .

Embodiments may also process data and display to the directional driller the level of loading being applied to downhole tools in terms of overall efficiency of the drilling system mechanical loadings such as fatigue tendencies and estimated reliability of specific downhole tools. This in effect provides the directional driller with a far more comprehensive picture and understanding of the complete directional drilling process based on dynamic numerical data sensors and modeled data dynamic graphics and estimations or look aheads in terms of equipment reliability based on empirical knowledge dynamometer testing data and engineering design data . The data may be obtained direct from surface and downhole sensors and from modeled data based on sensor data inputs processed by the embodiments. The processing may be based on data obtained from dynamometer testing and via drilling industry and classic engineering theory. Embodiments provide dynamic graphics and digital estimations or look aheads in terms of both the directional drilling behavior of the downhole drilling assembly and downhole drilling equipment reliability.

An important component to many directional drilling applications is the optimum application of downhole drilling motors and rotary steerable tools. Embodiments may provide dynamic graphical and numerical representations of drilling motors and rotary steerable tools in operation in terms of the differential operating pressure across motors and loadings applied by the drill string to rotary steerable tools. Furthermore embodiments may provide dynamic drilling motor rotary steerable tool input output performance graphs to aid the directional driller s perception and decision making.

Embodiments allow for real time representation of drilling motor rotary steerable tool operating differential pressure for the directional drilling operation. Conventionally the directional driller had to reference an off bottom standpipe pressure value at rig floor in relation to the dynamic on bottom pressure value at rig floor. The driller could then deduce the resulting pressure differential and conceive the result of this in terms of motor tool output torque and motor tool RPM as applied to the bit . Embodiments show these pressure differentials and resulting torque and RPM values both through a dynamic performance graph and a numerical representation. In some embodiments the real time representations as described may be displayed local as well as remote relative to the rig site.

Some embodiments may allow for simulation of a directional downhole drilling operation. Some embodiments offer an aid to the understanding of the functioning of a downhole drilling motor rotary steerable tool by allowing the simulator operator to see and control the results of their applied motor tool operating parameters real time. The simulator operator may choose from various types of drilling conditions may control Weight On Bit WOB flow rate drillstring rotation rate. Moreover the operator may simultaneously see the resulting differential pressure across the motor tool.

The simulator operator may see where the resultant motor or rotary steerable tool output torque and Rotations Per Minute RPMs figure on a performance graph for the motor tool. In some embodiments the simulator operator may also see an animated cross sectional graphic of the rotor rotate precess in the stator and may see the stator rotate due to the application of drillstring rotation at 1 1 speed ratio or scaled down in speed for ease of viewing . The operator can also see motor tool stalling may get a feel for how much load is induced in the motor tool may see simulated elastomer heating and chunking and may be given an indication of what effect this has on overall motor tool reliability.

Some embodiments allow the operator to select optimum drilling parameters and objectives for particular drilling conditions and to tune the process to provide an efficient balanced working system of inputs versus outputs. In some embodiments once that control has been achieved and held the system may project what the real life outcome should be in terms of a sub 50 hr run or in excess of 50 100 150 or 200 hr runs. Using some embodiments simulator operators are encouraged to understand that high Rate Of Penetration ROP and operations at high motor or rotary steerable tool loadings are to be considered against potential toolface control stall occurrence issues and corresponding reduced reliability and longevity issues.

In some embodiments problem scenarios may be generated by the system and questions asked of the operator regarding the problem scenarios in terms of weighing up the problem indications against footage time left to drill drilling conditions etc. in the particular application. Problem scenarios that are presented in relevant sections of a technical handbook may be referenced via hypertext links i.e. the operator causes a motor tool stall and they get linked to the items about stall in the handbook .

In some embodiments the simulator may include a competitive user mode. For the competitive user mode there is a scoring system option and ranking table for sessions. Different objective settings could be selected i.e. drill a pre set footage as efficiently reliably as possible or drill an unlimited footage until predicted tool problems or reduced tool wear efficiency reliability cause operations to be stopped . A score may be obtained which may be linked to one or more of a number of parameters. The parameters may include one or more of the following 

The simulator may allow for a number of inputs and outputs. With regard to inputs the simulator may allow for a configuration of one or more of the following 

In some embodiments the simulator may allow for different graphical and numerical outputs which may include one or more of the following 

In some embodiments other graphical and numerical outputs may include some advanced outputs which may include one or more of the following 

In some embodiments the interface may include a tally book. The tally book may display real time recording of data and notes. The tally book may be an editable document that may be accessible for download for future reference. In some embodiments the data that is displayed may be recorded and graphically replayed. Accordingly drilling tool problem occurrences may be analyzed and displayed to customers.

Some embodiments may be used for both actual and simulated drilling operations for different modes including a motor Bottom Hole Assembly BHA and BHA with drilling motor and tools above and below e.g. underreamer and rotary steerable tool etc.

Various graphical user interface screens for display of graphical and numerical output for monitoring and controlling of a drilling operation simulation are now described. illustrates a graphical user interface GUI screen that allows for controlling and monitoring of a directional drilling operation simulation according to some embodiments of the invention. A GUI screen includes a graph that tracks the performance of the downhole motor. The graph illustrates the relationship among the motor flow rate and RPM the operating differential pressure across the downhole motor and the torque output from the downhole motor. A graphic of the GUI screen illustrates graphical and numerical data for the downhole drilling motor. A graphic illustrates a cross section of a drill string that houses a downhole motor . The downhole motor may include a positive displacement type helically lobed rotor and stator power unit where for a given flow rate and circulating fluid properties the operating differential pressure across the power unit is directly proportional to the torque produced by the power unit. As shown the downhole motor includes a number of lobes on a rotor that fit into a number of lobed openings in a stator housing . As the pressurized drilling fluid flows through the openings between the lobes one or more of the lobes engage one or more of the openings thereby enabling rotation. The graphic may be updated based on sensors to illustrate the rotation of both the drill string and the downhole motor . Accordingly the drilling operator may visually track the rotation and adjust if necessary.

A graphic illustrates a meter that tracks the differential pressure across the downhole drilling motor. The graphic also includes numerical outputs for a number of attributes of the motor drill bit and drill string. For example the graphic includes numerical outputs for the motor output RPMs the drill string RPMs the drill bit RPMs the weight on bit the power unit the differential pressure the rate of penetration the flow rate and the motor output torque.

A graphic of the GUI screen illustrates the position of the BHA including the depth in the borehole and the distance that the bit is from the bottom . A graphic of the GUI screen illustrates data related to drilling control including brake draw works pumps and rotary table top drive . A graphic of the GUI screen provides a drilling data summary including off bottom pressure on bottom pressure flow rate string RPM bit RPM weight on bit motor output torque hours for the current run measured depth and average ROP .

A graphic of the GUI screen includes a number of buttons which allows for the units to be changed to generate reports from this drilling operation to perform a look ahead for the drilling operation to remove the drill string from the borehole and to stop the drilling operation simulation.

The GUI screen includes a graphic . The graphic illustrates the position of the drill bit including the depth in the borehole and the distance that the bit is from the bottom . The GUI screen includes a graphic that includes a summary of the reliability of the drilling operation including data related to stalling rotor stator fit and estimates of reliability . The GUI screen includes a graphic that includes warnings of problems related to the drilling operation simulation causes of such problems and corrections of such problems.

The GUI screen includes a graphic that illustrates the positions of the different BHA components downhole. The BHA components illustrated include an under reamer the downhole drilling motor and a rotary steerable tool. The graphic illustrates the distance from the surface and from the bottom for these different BHA components. The GUI screen also includes a graphic that illustrates drilling dynamics of the drilling operation. The drilling dynamics include numerical outputs that include actual data for lateral vibration axial vibration torsional vibration and reactive torque. The drilling dynamics also include numerical outputs that include extreme vibration projection including lateral axial and torsional . The drilling dynamics also includes a BHA analysis for whirl which tracks the speeds and cumulative cycles of the BHA.

The GUI screen includes a graphic that illustrates weight management of different parts of the BHA. The graphic includes the total weight on bit and the percentages of the weight on the reamer and the drill bit. The GUI screen also includes a graphic that includes help relative to the other graphics on the GUI screen .

The GUI screen includes a graph that illustrates the performance of a rotary steerable tool. In particular the graph monitors the torsional efficiency of the rotary steerable tool relative to a minimum threshold and a maximum threshold. The GUI screen also includes a graphic . The graphic includes a graphic that illustrates the current toolface of the bottom hole assembly. The toolface is an azimuthal indication of the direction of the bottom hole drilling assembly with respect to magnetic north. The toolface is referenced to the planned azimuthal well direction at a given depth. The graphic also includes a graphic that illustrates a meter that monitors the gearbox oil level. This meter may be changed to monitor other tool parameters such as the transmission the clutch slip and the battery condition.

The graphic also includes numerical outputs for a number of attributes of the motor drill bit and drill string. For example the graphic includes numerical outputs for the motor output RPMs the drill string RPMs the drill bit RPMs the weight on bit the rate of penetration the flow rate and the motor output torque. The graphic also includes numerical outputs for the depth inclination and azimuth of the well bore.

The GUI screen also includes a graphic that summarizes the drilling efficiency. The graphic includes a description of the formation being cut including name and rock strength . The graphic also includes numerical output regarding the optimum current and average for the bit RPM weight on bit and torque. The graphic also includes a description of the predicate current and average rate of penetration.

The GUI screen includes a graphic that includes a number of buttons. One button allows for a tallybook application to be opened to allow this data to be input therein. Another button allows for a report to be generated based on the data for this drilling operation. Another button allows for a display of the rotary steerable drilling tool utilities.

The GUI screen includes a graph that illustrates the bit RPM variation over time. The graph includes an optimum upper limit and an optimum lower limit for this variation. The graphic is similar to the graphic . However the graphic is replaced with a graphic which includes an illustration of a meter for the current bit RPM. This meter may be changed to monitor the motor RPM the drill string RPM the weight on bit cyclic bending stress fatigue loading on drilling assembly components etc.

While a number of different graphics have been shown across different GUI screens embodiments are not limited to those illustrated. In particular less or more graphics may be included in a particular GUI screen. The graphics described may be combined in any combination. Moreover the different GUI screens are applicable to both real time drilling operations and simulations.

Some embodiments provide load monitoring among the downhole components including the load distribution between the drill bit and reamers . In some embodiments downhole drilling motors use a positive displacement type helically lobed rotor and stator power units where for a given flow rate and circulating fluid properties the operating differential pressure developed across the power unit is directly proportional to the torque produced by the power unit. The relationship between weight on bit WOB and differential pressure P may be used in relation to assessing the torsional loading and rotation of drill bits through correlation with the specific performance characteristics performance graph for the motor configuration power unit being used.

It is becoming increasingly common for operators to run hole opening devices such as reamers in conjunction with motors for significant hole enlargement operations of up to 30 . The configuration of these BHAs typically places 30 feet to 120 feet of drill collars stabilizers and M LWD equipment between the cutting structure of the bit and the cutting structure of the hole opening device or reamer. In layered formations it is common for the each cutting structure to be in a different rock type causing wide variation in the WOB applied to each cutting structure. The inability to monitor and correct the application of WOB vs. weight on reamer WOR has resulted in multiple catastrophic tool failures and significant non productive time NPT costs to operators and service providers alike. In some embodiments the weight and torque applied to the reamer may be approximated and differentiated from that which is applied to the bit. In some embodiments the weight and torque applied to the reamer in comparison to the bit may be displayed in real time recorded etc.

In some embodiments the configuration of the drilling operation is set to at least two configurations to establish two different data points. illustrates a drilling operation wherein the reamer is not engaged and the drill bit is on the bottom according to some embodiments of the invention. illustrates a drill string in a borehole having sides . The drill string includes reamers A B which are not extended to engage the sides . A drill bit at the end of the drill string is at the bottom of the borehole . In some embodiments sensor s may determine the torque at the surface. Moreover sensor s may determine the differential pressure while at a normal operating flow rate with the drill bit on bottom at a known WOB with the reamers A B not engaged to establish a primary data point. A second data point is then established. In particular the same parameters surface torque and differential pressure may be accessed while the drill bit is on bottom drilling at a different WOB and the reamers A B are not engaged.

The two data points may be used to calculate the slope of a line. In particular illustrate graphs of the torque relative to the operating differential pressure for a downhole drilling motor according to some embodiments of the invention. In the graphs and the difference in differential pressure and the calculated slope are related to previously known functional characteristics of the specific power unit see the line in . In some embodiments any deviation of the calculated slope or extension of the line beyond the calculated intersection on the torque A curve is attributed to the hole opener reamer and hence the torsional loading and rotational motion of the drill bit can be separated from that of other BHA components see the extension in .

In some embodiments this distribution of the loads may be displayed in one of the GUI screens as described above . These graphical representations may facilitate intervention prior to the onset of stick slip and lateral vibration. Moreover this monitoring of the distribution may allow for the approximating of the functionality of additional down hole instrumentation or that of an instrumented motor without providing additional down hole sensors independent of and without altering existing motor designs.

In some embodiments the interpretation of motor differential operating pressure can be used to evaluate the forces required to overcome static inertia and friction losses related to other tools which are run below motors such as rotary steerable tools and adjustable gauge stabilizers. In many high angle and tight hole applications this can be an issue where differential pressure is applied to a drilling motor and the resulting torsional loading is then applied to the tools below the motor. However rotation of the tools below the motor is not established. Thus the frictional and tool weight losses are overcome by the applied motor torsion and the tools abruptly begin to rotate. This can cause mechanical loading issues with the tools below the motor in terms of mechanical and electronic components within. Internal motor components can also be adversely affected.

In some applications the amount of power required to overcome the mechanical loadings caused by the tools below the motor may leave only a limited amount of remaining power with which to undertake the drilling process. The graphical and numerical representations as described herein may provide a real time indication of this problem. Accordingly directional drilling personnel may adjust drilling operations as required. In some applications tools run below motors may at times need to be operated on very low flow rates with small differential pressures in order for such tools to be correctly configured or to perform certain functions.

Embodiments of the graphical and numerical representations may aid in the above scenarios. The more subtle start up and low level motor operating aspects are often not observable at surface by the directional driller. Embodiments may process relevant data and through these graphical and numerical representations indicate fluctuations in the drill bit rotation and in drilling motor output torque and RPM characteristics. Some embodiments may be applicable to rotary drilling assemblies where there is no drilling motor in the bottom hole drilling assembly.

In various embodiments monitoring and control of directional drilling operations and associated functions and simulations can be conducted in a hand mobile communication device. A hand mobile communication device is defined herein as a device that can communicate wirelessly and is structured such that it is capable of mobility as a hand carried device. Hand mobile communication devices can include but are not limited to a smartphone a tablet and a laptop computer each having a graphical user interface. A smartphone an example of which is illustrated in is a mobile phone having an operating system that provides for advanced computing capabilities in the smartphone itself. The advanced computing capabilities include application programming interfaces APIs that run non phone applications on the smartphone and integrate these applications with the operating system of the phone. The computing capabilities provide for data processing and visual display screens that can be executed separate from a communications session. Smartphones can include touchscreens and web browsers. A tablet an example of which is illustrated in is a one piece mobile computer typically operated by a user via a touchscreen. The use of a touchscreen and a virtual keyboard allows a tablet to function as a mobile computer similar to a laptop computer but with reduced hardware components. A laptop computer an example of which is illustrated in is structured in a housing that provides for increased number of hardware components relative to a tablet such as CD DVD devices embedded in the laptop computer and space for increased data storage. Though laptop computers are mobile computers they generally are significantly larger in dimensions and weight than a tablet. Components of such hand mobile communication devices can be structured to function similar to components discussed with respect to to operate to perform procedures and techniques as taught herein with examples associated with . The wireless capabilities of the hand mobile communication devices provide capabilities such that input components such as keyboard ports CDs and other components of stationary computers may be eliminated. For instance a smartphone and a tablet may not include a CD device or similar component for input from an external device though a laptop computer can include such additional components. In addition to the procedures and techniques discussed above hand mobile communication device can include APIs and stored instructions for additional analysis of data for a drilling operation at a drill site. The hand mobile communication device can provide for remote monitoring and control of the directional drilling operations at a drill site that is seamless and can be conducted real time.

A hand mobile communication device may be structured such that it is operable to communicate wirelessly using different wireless transmission modes. For instance a network interface of the hand mobile communication device can include components to wirelessly communicate over a wireless wide area network WAN such as provided by a communications service provider. A network interface of the hand mobile communication device can also include components to wirelessly communicate over a wireless local area network LAN such as a Wi Fi network or by Bluetooth. The hand mobile communication device can use Wi Fi to couple to a local router to connect to a drilling site via an internet connection. A Bluetooth can also be used to connect to a drilling site via an internet connection. The range of a Bluetooth connection may be less than the Wi Fi connection. Bluetooth Wi Fi or other short range wireless instrumentality may also be used to allow the hand mobile communication device to operate with local devices such as but not limited to external keyboards external pointing devices operable with the GUI of the hand mobile communication device printers and local external data storage devices.

The drill tool can send data to a field computer located at the drilling site. The field computer may process some or all of the data from the drill tool and send the results to other locations including the hand mobile communication device . The field computer may forward the data without analyzing the data and or processing the data to the other locations including the hand mobile communication device . Alternatively the data may be analyzed in a processing unit of the drilling tool downhole and a set of results sent to the surface. The set of results may be further processed and or analyzed at the field computer or at the other locations including the hand mobile communication device . If the field computer functions solely as communication routing device it may be replaced with a communications router. The field computer can be structured as a combination of computer and communications router. Communication between the field computer and the hand mobile communication device via the wireless network s may include other communication medium between the field computer and wireless networks .

The hand mobile communication device can receive the data wirelessly from a wireless network or combination of wireless networks . The combination of wireless networks can include combinations of one or more wireless WANs and or one or more wireless LANS. The hand mobile communication device can display the data in various formats on a GUI screen of the hand mobile communication device . Underlying APIs in the hand mobile communication device can operate to manipulate the data to further analyze the drilling operation associated with the drilling tool at the drilling site and show the results of such further analysis on its GUI. If the data is data that has not been analyzed prior to reception at the hand mobile communication device underlying APIs in the hand mobile communication device can operate to analyze the data and display results on the GUI of the hand mobile communication device .

Commands generated in the hand mobile communication device can be sent from the hand mobile communication device using the wireless network s back to the drill site to control the operation of the drilling tool . The commands can be received at the field computer for further evaluation for processing in a format to be forwarded to the drilling tool or for direct forwarding to the drilling tool . The field computer may be structured as a combination of computer and communications router.

In various embodiments a process for performing a directional drilling operation at a drilling site can be conducted in coordination with using a hand mobile communications device. Such a process may include receiving data wirelessly in the hand mobile communications device from one or more sensors disposed downhole at the drilling site wherein at least one of the one or more sensors output data related to a performance attribute of a downhole component. The downhole component can comprise part of a drill string that is used to perform the directional drilling operation. The downhole component may be from a group consisting of a downhole drilling motor and a rotary steerable tool. The performance attribute can be selected from a group consisting of rotations per unit of time of the downhole component operating differential pressure across the downhole component and torque output of the downhole component. The data can be sent to the hand mobile communications device from one or more sensors via a field computer at the drilling site or a communications routing device at the drilling site. Such a method can include displaying the data in a numerical representation a graphical representation or a combination of graphical representation and numerical representation on a GUI screen of the hand mobile communications device. Additional data associated with the drilling operations can be sent wirelessly to the hand mobile communications device where information based on the data is displayed on a GUI screen of the hand mobile communications device. Using the GUI screen of the hand mobile communications device control commands can be generated and sent to the drilling site to control the directional drilling operation. In addition for some functions commands can be generated from the hand mobile communications device and sent to the drilling site to control the directional drilling operation automatically without using the GUI. Override control of automatic functions can be set in the hand mobile communications device.

Receiving data in the mobile device can occur in response to a request for information on the drilling operation at a selected site sent to the appropriate system locally at the drilling site or at a RTO center or to a drilling tool at the selected drilling site. Digital instructions data structures object classes or various combinations can be used in conjunction with the execution by one or more processors in the mobile device to initiate and conduct monitoring and control of the drilling operations using the mobile device. On a GUI screen of the mobile device a drilling application can be selected. On the GUI screen a request to select a drilling site can projected. The drilling site can be selected using an input that identifies a selected drilling site by inputting an identification of the drilling site or from a drop down box on the GUI screen with a set of possible drilling sites. Upon selection of the drilling site the mobile device can establish communication with the appropriate system or drilling tool at the selected drilling site to send the request for information. The request can be sent as a polling activity in which the request is sent automatically at fixed periods of time to selected drilling sites that have been previously selected.

Receiving data in the mobile device can include receiving the data over a secure communication path with a communication unit at the drilling site. Receiving the data over the secure communication path can include conducting an authentication of the mobile device or user of the mobile device using a third party authentication process. The third party authentication process can use a secure server in which a secure communication is established with the mobile device over a wireless network while the server may communicate with the communication unit at the drilling site over a land based network. Use of the land based network may include use of the Internet.

At a representation of the data is displayed on the GUI screen of the mobile device. Multiple representations of the data can be displayed individually in response to signals actuated from the interface screen or a user input device of the mobile device. These multiple representations of the data may include selected portions of the data in different selected formats as different pages presented on the GUI screen of the mobile device. The GUI screen can be a touchscreen. A touch screen can be arranged to provide a user input device on the screen. Some hand mobile communication devices can include build in typewriter like keys which can be physically actuated. The keys may be arranged as a qwerty keyboard. Displaying the representation of the data can include displaying in a graphical presentation a numerical presentation or a combination of a numerical presentation and a graphical presentation on the graphical user interface screen of the mobile device. Displaying the representation of the data can include displaying the representation of the data on the GUI screen of the mobile device during performance of the directional drilling operation. Displaying the representation of the data on the GUI screen of the mobile device can include displaying a graphical representation of a downhole component disposed as part of a drill string that shows animated movement in an interior of the downhole component. Displaying the representation of the data can include displaying an image of formations with respect to a drilling tool of the directional drilling operation. Displaying the image can include displaying a projected path of the drilling tool in the formations. Displaying the projected path of the drilling tool in the formations can include displaying the projected path as an animation showing the creation and progress of the path. Displaying the representation of the data can include displaying an image of formations represented by characteristics of the formations or relationships of the drilling operation to the formations such as but not limited to values of resistivity values of porosity values of true vertical direction TVD of the drilling and other values of parameters of the formations and or drilling operation.

The data to be displayed can be sent wirelessly to the mobile device where the data is stored on the mobile device. This data can be modified on the mobile device and used to generate additional information on the mobile device to analyze the data relative to the drilling operation including drilling tool properties and functions properties of the formations and relationships of the drilling tool to the formations. The processed data can be displayed in various representations on the GUI of the mobile device. Alternatively each representation can be sent from a computer at the drilling site a RTO center or other sources on an individual basis in a data streaming manner to the mobile device. Interactive commands can be generated using the GUI of the mobile device and sent to the computer that provides the data where analysis and data modification is conducted on the computer with the results sent back to the mobile device according to a representation format for the results.

A method to monitor and control directional drilling operations can also include transmitting based on the data sent to the hand mobile communication device control commands from the hand mobile communication device to a control unit associated with the directional drilling operation at the drill site to control one or more drilling tasks of the directional drilling operation based on the control commands. A method to monitor and control directional drilling operations can also include conducting in the hand mobile communication device simulations of the directional drilling operation downhole at the drill site. These simulations can be used to analyze and direct further tasks for the drilling operation. Conducting the simulations in the hand mobile communication device can include conducting the simulations as a training tool which may allow the use of actual data for training purposes. A method to monitor and control directional drilling operations can also include transmitting commands from the mobile device to a drilling tool of the directional drilling operation to modify operation of the drilling tool or collect additional data. A method to monitor and control directional drilling operations can also include performing the directional drilling operation and directing the directional drilling operation from the mobile device.

The hand mobile communication device may include a graphics controller to operate the GUI screen . The hand mobile communication device may include selection devices to operate in conjunction with the GUI screen where such selection devices can include but are not limited to instrumentality to operate the GUI screen as a touchscreen instrumentality to operate the GUI screen with external devices including but not limited to a computer mouse and keyboard. The hand mobile communication device includes peripheral devices which can include circuits that may operate in conjunction with the processor unit the memory unit the communications unit the GUI screen the graphics controller or permutations of these components to monitor control or monitor and control drilling operations at drilling sites. The hand mobile communication device includes electronic apparatus which can be used in conjunction with the processor unit to perform tasks associated with the hand mobile communication device where the tasks are in addition to tasks to monitor control or monitor and control drilling operations at drilling sites.

The hand mobile communication device can also include a bus where the bus provides electrical conductivity among the hand mobile communication device . The bus can include an address bus a data bus and a control bus each independently configured. The bus can also use common conductive lines for providing one or more of address data or control the use of which can be regulated by the processor unit . The bus can be configured such that the components of the hand mobile communication device can be distributed within the housing structured to be hand carried.

The memory unit can include instructions to send commands to a drilling tool at the drill site to control a directional drilling operation of the drilling tool of the drilling operation. The memory unit can include instructions to simulate the directional drilling operation downhole at the drill site. The hand mobile communication device can be a smartphone. The hand mobile communication device can be a tablet. The hand mobile communication device can be a laptop computer. Further the hand mobile communication device can be structured to monitor control or monitor and control drilling operations at drilling sites in a manner similar to or identical to the devices schemes and architectures discussed herein.

In the description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the embodiments of the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Various embodiments use permutations and or combinations of embodiments described herein. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon studying the above description.

