---

title: Location service for user authentication
abstract: A method and apparatus for location authentication of the user are disclosed. In the method and apparatus, the location of the user is authenticated if one or more conditions for geographic proximity associated with two or more devices of the user are satisfied. Upon the location of the user being authenticated, the user may be granted access to a service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350717&OS=09350717&RS=09350717
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09350717
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130923
---
Internet services such as e mail services and online banking services require user authentication prior to providing the user with access to services. The predominant form of user authentication utilized by service provider has been based on verifying user credentials whereby a user supplies pre set credentials to the service provider and the service provider authenticates the user based on matching the provided credentials to a record kept by the service provider. However despite best efforts to avoid such events the passwords and other credentials may be stolen or otherwise compromised and possibly may be used to illegitimately access various accounts of users. To complicate matters in many contexts users often utilize passwords and generally passcodes that have semantic meaning or generally are easy to guess. The use of such passwords effectively reduces the space of passwords to be searched in a cryptographic attack. Such use of single factor authentication therefore can lack adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to data and or other resources whose access is controlled via authentication mechanisms.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Techniques described and suggested herein include authenticating a user based at least in part on a location associated with the user or a location associated with one or more devices of the user. Location authentication includes comparing the location of two or more user devices to determine whether the two devices share a similar location or may be said to be on or near the user or on or near the user s person. For the user to be authenticated the user may be required to retain two or more devices in the same geographic location or geographic area or within a geographic proximity to one another. Performing location authentication may be an additional layer of security for ensuring that user access is not compromised. Further location authentication may be compliment or replace credentials based authentication whereby access to a service is conditional upon correct user credentials such as username password data of birth or answers to security questions among others being provided to the service.

Location based authentication may be performed by a party other than the service to which access is sought. As described herein location based authentication may be performed by a location authentication service that is decoupled from the service to which access is sought. Accordingly when user credentials are compromised or stolen from the service to which access is sought location based authentication is separately safe guarded by the location authentication service.

As described herein a user may have a plurality of device whereby one device of the plurality of devices may be a service access device using which the user may access a service such as an e mail account an electronic banking account or a social networking account among others. Further another device of the plurality of devices may be a location authentication device which the user may be required to retain within a geographic proximity of the service access device in order for the user to be authenticated for access to the service. For example the user may be required to retain the location authentication device within a radius of 10 feet of the service access device while the user is being authenticated for access to the service. To gain access to the service or to the user s account with the service the user may submit their credentials to the service and the service may authenticate the credentials. Following authenticating the user s credentials the service may initiate location authentication as an added security measure for permitting the user to access the service or the user s account with the service.

Upon receiving the user s credentials for accessing the service the service may identify the location of the device used to request access to the service or the service access device . The location of the device may be determined using a geo location functionality of a web browser such as a hypertext markup language 5 HTML5 enabled browser. The service may request the location of the device from the browser and receive the location from the browser. The service may then send a message such as an application programming interface API function call to the location authentication service requesting the location authentication service to authenticate the user. The service may further identify the service and indicate an account of the user with the service or an account of the user with the location authentication service. In addition the service may indicate the identified location of the service access device. As described herein the location of the service access device may be used for the user s location authentication.

Upon receiving the request the location authentication service initiates location authentication of the user. The location authentication service identifies a second user device for example a location authentication device to be used for authenticating the user. As described herein the location authentication device may have been previously verified for usage in authenticating the user. To identify the location authentication device the location authentication service may maintain a profile associated with the user. The profile may include an indication of services the user may access and for which location authentication may be performed to facilitate the access. Further the profile may indicate user devices that are verified to be location authentication devices. Each service which the user may access or which may request location authentication of the user may be associated with one or more location authentication devices of the user. The location authentication service may base identifying the location authentication device at least in part on the request received from the service or associated information received from the service such as the user s account with the service or the user s account with the location authentication service.

The location authentication service may then identify the location of the location authentication device. In some embodiments the location authentication device may include global positioning system GPS circuitry and may be able to determine its location by the tuple longitude latitude altitude . The location authentication service may request the location of the device and the device may send its location to the location authentication service. Alternatively the location authentication service may determine the location of the location authentication device based at least in part on an HTML5 browser of the device.

Having received the location of the service access device and identified the location of the location authentication device the location authentication service may compare the locations of the two devices and determine whether one or more criteria for authenticating the user are met. At least one criterion may be that the location of the authentication device is within a geographic boundary surrounding the location of the service access device or vice versa. Further another criterion may be that the location of the authentication device is within a pre specified distance or a radius for example 10 feet of the location of the service access device or vice versa. If at least one of the one or more criteria is met or if a correspondence between the locations of the devices is determines the user may be authenticated based at least in part on the location of the devices and the service may grant access to the user given that the location of the service access device is within a geographic proximity to the location of the location authentication device.

If the user is authenticated the location authentication service may send a message for example an acknowledgement to the service indicating that the location of the user has been authenticated. If on the other hand the user is not authenticated the location authentication service may send a message for example a non acknowledgement to the service indicating that the location of the user has not been authenticated. If the user is associated with more than one location authentication device the location authentication service may attempt to authenticate the user based at least in part on the location of the more than one location authentication devices. The location authentication service may determine that the user is authenticated based at least in part on the location of one more than one or all of the location authentication devices.

Prior to designating a user device as a location authentication device the user device may be verified as being a device of the user. Verifying the device as being a device of the user may include receiving from the device a request to designate the device for usage in location identification as described herein. Further the verifying may include receiving a security code from the service and comparing the security code received from the service with a security code received from the device to determine whether a correspondence exists between the security codes. The security codes may correspond to one another if they are matching or if they meet a pre specified criterion. The security code may be a security token such as a temporary security token. Further verifying the device may include comparing the location of the device with a location received from the service and determining whether a correspondence exists between the locations. The location received from the service may be a location of the service access device.

The location authentication service may be configured with one or more location criteria for determining whether the user may be authenticated. The criteria may include a distance between the two devices or a determination as to whether either device is within a certain geographic area or region. Upon satisfaction of one or more location related criteria the user is authenticated. If however one or more criteria are not satisfied the user is not authenticated. Further prior to performing location based authentication a random string for example as encoded in a Quick Response QR code may shared between the first device and the second device whereby a camera enabled second device may capture a snapshot of the QR shown on a screen of the first device . Information encoded in the QR code may be relayed to the location authentication service by the second device and or other entities to complete registration.

The computing resource service provider may provide various computing resource services to its customers. The services provided by the computing resource service provider in this example include a location authentication service and one or more other services . It is noted that not all embodiments described herein include the services of the computing resource service provider and additional services may be provided in addition to or as an alternative to services explicitly described herein. Further while the location authentication service is shown to be a part of the computing resource service provider only a portion of the location authentication service may be within the computing resource service provider and in various embodiments the location authentication service may not be part of the computing resource service provider and may reside outside the computing resource service provider . Each of the services may include one or more interfaces such as web services interface that enable the customer to submit appropriately configured API calls to the various services through web service requests. In addition each of the services may include one or more interfaces that enable the services to access each other.

The location authentication service may provide location authentication services to the customer . The location authentication services may be used by the customer to authenticate users of one or more services of the customer . Authentication may include authenticating a user based at least in part on a location associated with the user or a location of one or more of the user s devices. The authentication service provided by the location authentication service may supplement authentication performed by the customer . For example the customer may perform authentication based at least in part on user credentials and may use location authentication in addition of or in place of credential authentication. The other services provided by the computing resource service provider may include as illustrative examples a virtual computer system service and a block level data storage service. In addition to or instead of providing location authentication services to the customer the location authentication service may perform location authentication for other services of the computing resource service provider . For example the location authentication service may be used to authenticate access to any one of the other services of the computing resource service provider such as the virtual computer system service or the block level data storage service.

The third party service may be any type of service that provides functionality to the user and may require verification of user credentials prior to the user gaining access to the service or gaining access to information or data specific to the user. The third party service may be an electronic service and may communicate with the user or with other services such as the location authentication service via a network not shown whereby the communication is facilitated by a communications protocol such as the Internet protocol IP . The third party service may for example be a social networking website an e mail service or an electronic banking service. The term third party is used herein in reference to the relationship of the service with the location authentication service to which the user may be deemed to be a second party. However other terms may also be used to aptly describe the service including social networking service or e commerce service or website. As described herein the third party service may require a user to be authenticated before the user is permitted access to the third party service or access to a functionality of the third party service . Further although the third party service and the location authentication service are shown as being decoupled in the third party service and the location authentication service may be part of the same entity or service and the location authentication functionality of the location authentication service may be performed by the third party service or any other service. As described herein the term third party is illustrative and the techniques may be used in other contexts where resources and authentication are controlled or performed by the same entity.

The user s first device may be any electronic device that is configured to communicate with the third party service using any type of communication protocol. The first device may be equipped with a processor such as a central processing unit CPU or a graphics processing unit GPU that provides computing functionality to the user. Examples of a CPU include those utilizing a complex instruction set computing CISC architecture such as the x86 CPU and others that utilize a reduced instruction set computing RISC architecture such as the advanced RISC machine ARM CPU. The first device may also be equipped with one or more input and output peripherals such as a screen speakers and touch screen or physical keyboard. The first device may further be equipped with a global positioning system GPS circuitry that enables locating the device. The first device may further be equipped with an operating system and may be configured to execute software applications and programs compatible with the operating systems. Examples of the programs include a hypertext markup language 5 HTML5 web browser that enables access to websites over a network and is capable of providing location of the device and vendor specific applications that enable access to vendor provided services such as mobile applications.

The user s second device may be any device that is configured to communicate with the location authentication service . Further the second device may be similarly configured as the first device and may be equipped with any type of hardware or software functionality. The first device or the second device may be any consumer electronic device including a desktop computer a laptop computer an Internet enabled smart television a smart phone or a tablet. The first device or the second device may access the third party service or the location authentication service via one or more networks not shown whereby the network may be the Internet an intranet or an Internet service provider ISP network. Communication between the user and the third party may be performed using any type of protocol such as an Internet protocol IP .

The location authentication service may be configured to authenticate a user or a user s device such as the first device based at least in part on a location of the user s device or a location of another device such as the second device of the user. The location authentication service may be equipped with computing resources to facilitate user or device authentication. The computing functionality may include processing power derived from underlying physical or virtual hardware resources.

The user may have an account with the third party service through which the user may gain access to the third party service or a user s account with the third party service . The third party service may authenticate the user based at least in part on the user s credentials. Confirming the user s credentials may include matching the name associated with the user such as an e mail address or a user specified or a service specified name and a password or personal identification number PIN associated with the user. In addition to or in place of authenticating the user based at least in part on the user s credentials location authentication may be used whereby the user may authenticated for access to the third party service may include location authentication as described herein. The user may be said to be authenticated for access to the third party service if the user s credentials are authenticated the user s location is authenticated both the user s credentials and the user s location are authenticated. As described herein authenticating the user s location may be enabled by the location authentication service .

As shown in the user attempts to access the third party service using the first device also referred to herein as a service access device . The user may send their credentials to the third party service for the authentication process to be performed. The third party service may authenticate the user based at least in part on their credentials and may initiate authenticating the user based at least in part on the user s location. In order for location authentication to be performed the third party service may receive a location of the first device and may request the location authentication service to perform location authentication based at least in part on the location of the first device . The location authentication service may obtain the location of the second device . As described herein the second device may be a module device. The location authentication service may request from the second device the location of the second device and the second device may respond with it s current location to the location authentication service . The location authentication service may determine whether the user may be authenticated based at least in part on the location of the first device and the location of the second device . Authenticating the user may be based at least in part on the premise that the first device and the second device are on the user s person or near the user s person in the user s home or in the user s office among others. Further authenticating the user may include determining whether the two device are within a geographic proximity to one another or whether the first device is within a geographic boundary of the second device and vice versa.

Upon determining whether the user s location may be authenticated the location authentication service may send an acknowledgement to the third party service indicating that the location authentication of the user has been successful or a non acknowledgement indicating that the location authentication has not been successful.

In addition to or in place of confirmation of the received user s credentials granting access to the user s account with the third party service to the first device may include location authentication. As described herein location authentication may include granting access to the third party service based at least in part on a location associated with the user or one or more of the user s devices. Authenticating the user may include confirming that two or more devices of the user share a common location or are within a geographic proximity to one another. Further location authentication may include confirming that the user attempts access to a service from a trusted geographic location.

To perform location authentication the third party service obtains the location of the first device . Obtaining the location of the user s first device may be performed by obtaining a Global Positioning System GPS location of the first device . For example the first device may be equipped with GPS circuitry that enables locating the first device using GPS. The first device may be aware of its location as determined by the GPS and may send the location to the third party service . Alternatively the third party service may obtain the location of the first device from a location service associated with the GPS.

Further obtaining the location of the user s first device may be performed using web browser supported geo location estimation. A web browser that supports hypertext markup language 5 HTML5 may enable estimating and providing the device s location to a service accessed by the web browser. Estimating a device s location may be performed based at least in part on an Internet protocol IP address that the devices an identity associated with a used wireless network connection or a wireless access point or an identity associated with a wireless network connection or wireless access point that is visible to the device among others. Examples of the wireless network connection or wireless access point include those compliant with an Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 communications protocol.

The third part service may be accessible via the web browser for example a web browser using an HTML 5 protocol and the user of the first device may be prompted to provide the location of the first device to the third party service . The user may opt in for providing information associated with the location of the first device to the third party service . Upon identifying the location of the first device the process proceeds to location authentication. As described herein the user may be authenticated by confirming that the user s first device is within a geographic proximity to a second device of the user. For example the first device may be a computer of the user and the second device may be a mobile phone of the user and it may be assumed that the user will likely have their mobile phone in their proximity.

The location authentication service is used to authenticate the location of the user. The third party service sends a request to authenticate the location of the user to the location authentication service . The request may include identifying information of the user such as an identity of account of the user with the third party service or an identity of an account of the user with the location authentication service . The third party service also sends the identified location of the first device to the location authentication service . The location authentication service then attempts to confirm that the location of the user s first device is within a geographic proximity to the user s second device .

The location authentication service may identify the user based at least in part on the received identity of the user. The location authentication service may also identify one or more devices that are to be used for authenticating the user s location. The location authentication service may maintain identities of third party services that may request location authentication for the user as well as user devices whose location may be used for location authentication. The user for example may specify that the user s mobile phone or smart phone be used for location authentication as it may be assumed that the user may have their mobile phone or smart phone on their person in most cases the user attempts access to a third party service.

The location authentication service then obtains a location of the user s second device . Obtaining the location of the second device may be performed by sending a message to the second device requesting the location of the second device . The message may inquire the location of the second device and may solicit the second device to send its current location to the location authentication service . As contemplated by those skilled in the art the second device may determine its location based at least in part on a GPS location of the device among other means for determining location. The second device may send its location to the location authentication service . The location may be provided as a tuple including latitude longitude altitude . The latitude specifies a north south position of a point on the Earth s surface the longitude specifies an east west position of a point on the Earth s surface and the altitude may be a height above sea level of a location. Further the time at which the position of the second device was measured may also be provided to the location authentication service .

Upon receipt of the location of the second device the location authentication service attempts to authenticate the location of the user. The location authentication service may make a comparison between the location of the first device as received from the third party service and the location of the second device and may determine whether the user s location may be authenticated. Determining whether the user s location may be authenticated may include determining the locations of the first device and the second device are within a geographic proximity of one another. To determine whether the locations are within a geographic proximity of one another the location authentication service may determine whether the location of the first device is within a radius of the location of the second device or within a geographic boundary the second device of and vice versa.

It is noted that the locations of the first device and the second device as received by the location authentication service may be subject to measurement errors or inaccuracies or may have an associated margin of error. Further the margin of error may depend on the basis of a location measurement whereby for example a GPS based location measurement may have a smaller margin of error than an IP based measurement. To account for measurement errors one or more conditions for geographic proximity between the user s devices may change depending on the technique used to measure the location of the user s devices. Further proximity between the user s devices may be based at least in part on a percentage of overlap of a geographic boundary around the first device and a geographic boundary around the second device. The geographic boundary may be a circle of a pre specified radius around the location of a device. The radius may adjustable depending on the technique used to measure the location of a device whereby the radius may be proportional to the margin of error or inaccuracy associated with the location measurement.

On a condition that the location authentication service is able to authenticate the location of the user the location authentication service may send an acknowledgement to the third party service indicating that the location of the user has been successfully authenticated. Conversely if the location authentication service is not able to authenticate the location of the user the location authentication service may send an non acknowledgement to the third party service indicating failure of location authentication. If the third party service receives an acknowledgement from the location authentication service the third party service may consider that the user has been successfully authenticated and that successful proof that the user devices satisfy one or more conditions of geographic proximity has been determined. The third party service may accordingly grant access to the service to the user. If on the other hand the third party service receives an non acknowledgement from the location authentication service the third party service may consider that the one or more conditions of geographic proximity have not been satisfied and may deny the user access to the service.

It is noted that the location authentication service may attempt to authenticate the location of the user by comparing the location of the user s first device with two or more devices of the user. For example in addition to the first device used to access the third party service the user s may have a mobile phone and a tablet. The location authentication service may authenticate the location of the user by determining that the location of the user s first device is within a geographic proximity to the user s two or more devices.

When performing location authentication the location authentication service may reconcile two or more different types of positioning standards. Positioning may in some cases be based at least in part on a longitude and latitude of a location of a device whereas in other cases positioning may be based at least in part on a longitude latitude and altitude of a location of the device. To compare the locations of two devices the location authentication service may compare the longitude and latitude of the locations of the two devices and discount the altitude from location authentication if altitude data is not available for both devices. If it noted that altitude location is often available in GPS based location measurements but may be absent in an HTML5 based location estimation which relies on IP addresses and wireless communications access points for altitude information may be lacking. It is further noted that the location authentication service is advantageous in that it is decoupled from the third party service . The decoupling enables location authentication to be performed more securely as using the third party service for authenticating credentials and using the location authentication service for authenticating location makes the authentication process more resilient to compromise.

Prior to authenticating the user based at least in part on the location of the user devices an authentication device may be registered as a device of the user or as a device whose location may be used to authenticate the user. Registering the authentication device with location authentication service may include confirming that the authentication device is associated with the user as described with reference to .

To register the second device as an authentication device the user s second device requests the location authentication service to add the second device to a profile of the user maintained by the location authentication service . The user profile may include one or more other authentication devices of the user which may be used to authenticate the user for access to one or more third party service. Further the user s profile may include an indication of the one or more third party services which may be accessed by the user and which may request user authentication from the location authentication service . The profile may associate an authentication device with a third party service whereby the authentication device may be used for authenticating user access to the third party service.

The user requests adding the second device as an authentication of the user. Adding the second device may be requested by accessing an account of the user with the location authentication service via a web browser. Alternatively the user may obtain an application that facilitates access to the user s profile with the location authentication service . The user may use the application to log on to the user s profile and request adding the second device as an authentication device. Further the user may indicate the services for which the second device is to be used as an authentication device. For example the user may have a social networking account and a bank account and the user may seek to designate the user s mobile phone as an authentication device for access to the user s social networking account and designate the user s tablet as an authentication device for access to the bank account. Similarly the user may designate the mobile device as an authentication device for all of the user s third party service accounts that use the location authentication service for authentication.

To confirm that the second device is a device of the user and that the user seeks to use the second device as an authentication device for the third party service the user logs on to the user s account with the third party service using the first device and requests the third party service to use the location authentication service for user location authentication. Further the request may indicate that the second device be used as an authentication device. Upon receipt of the user s request to use the location authentication service for authenticating user location the third party service identifies a location of the first device . Determining the location of the first device may for example be facilitated by an HTML5 browser of the first device . The HTML5 browser may supply the location information of the first device to the third party service . The location of the first device will be compared to the location of the second device in order verify that the second device is associated with the user. As a result for the registration to be completed properly it may be required for the first device and the second device to be within a pre determined geographic boundary.

A confirmation package including a security code is then relayed for completing the registration procedure. The confirmation package may include a security code which may be a randomly generated string for example a random string of alphanumeric or hexadecimal characters . The security code may be used to authenticate the confirmation package as being initiated or sent by the third party service or the location authentication service . Further the confirmation package may also include an identity associated with the third party service . In addition the confirmation package may also include the location of the first device as determined by the third party service as well as an expiration time or date for adding the third party service as a service that uses the location authentication service or for adding the second device as an authentication device.

Two alternatives for confirmation package generation are shown in and described with reference to numeral . In a first scenario the location authentication service generates the confirmation package including the security code and sends the confirmation package to the third party service . The third party service then sends the confirmation package to the first device . In a second scenario the third party service generates the confirmation package including the security code and sends the confirmation package to the location authentication service . Further the third party service relays the confirmation package to the first device as described herein.

In an embodiment the elements of the confirmation package may be generated by both the third party service and the location authentication service . For example the location authentication service may generate the security code and send the security code to the third party service for relay to the first device whereas the third party service may add other elements to the confirmation package such as an identity associated with the third party service the location of the first device or an expiration time or date for adding the third party service as a service that uses the location authentication service or for adding the second device as an authentication device . As described herein the third party service may send the augmented confirmation package to the first device . The confirmation package or a portion thereof is then relayed from the first device to the second device and used by the location authentication service to confirm that the second device is associated with the user.

The confirmation package may be sent to the first device as a Quick Response QR code. Sending the confirmation package as a QR code to the first device facilitates capturing the confirmation package by the second device in the event that the second device is equipped with a camera. As described herein sending the confirmation package may include sending fewer than all the elements of the confirmation package. For example the third party service may send the security code and the location of the first device to the location authentication service but only send the security code to the first device .

The confirmation package is then transferred from the first device to the second device . Transferring the confirmation package may be performed by physically connecting the two devices and causing the confirmation package to be received by the second device using any appropriate communication protocol for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI communication protocol. Further transferring the conformation package to the second device may be performed wirelessly through any type of wireless communication protocol including short range communications protocols such as Bluetooth or IEEE 802 or long range communications protocols such as a cellular communications protocol. In addition the confirmation package may be transferred to the second device by capturing a still image of a QR code representing the confirmation package. Transferring the confirmation package may be facilitated by an application of the location authentication service installed on the second device whereby for example the application may enable the second device to capture an image of the QR code representing the confirmation package or the application may enable the second device to communicate with the first device for the purpose for transferring the confirmation package via a wired or wireless connection.

Following receiving the confirmation package the second device sends the confirmation package to the location authentication service . Similar to receiving the confirmation package sending the confirmation package to the location authentication service may be enabled by an application of the location authentication service that is installed on the second device . Before or after receiving the confirmation package from the second device the location authentication service also receives the location of the second device . The location of the second device may be determined using GPS when the second device is equipped with GPS circuitry or using HTML5 based location estimation.

The location authentication service then compares the security received from the second device with the security code it retains for example the security code it generated or received from the third party service and determines whether the security code are matching or meet a specified criterion. Further the location authentication service compares the location of the first device as received from the third party service with the location of the second device . The location authentication service may determine whether the locations of the two devices satisfy a criterion such as whether one of the devices falls within geographic range of the other device. If one or more of the security code and the location criteria are met the second device may be verified as a device of the user. Further the location authentication service may determine whether the time for performing device association has expired and if it is determined that the time has expired the location authentication service may not verify the second device as a device of the user.

If one or more of the criteria are satisfied the location authentication service sends an acknowledgement to the third party service indicating that the second device may be authenticated for use as an authentication device. Further the acknowledgement may also indicate that the third party service may use the location authentication service for authenticating the user s location. The third party service may process the request and may begin using the location authentication service for authenticating the user. The third party service in turn responds with an acknowledgement to the location authentication service and the registration process is considered to be completed.

Following the completion of the registration process the third party service may use the location authentication service for location authentication. Further the registration process may be repeated for one or more other user devices whereby the user may seek to register other device for use as authentication devices. If the authentication of the user based on a device is not successful location authentication based on the one or more other user devices may be initiated to authenticate the user. For example the user may register their smart television as an authentication device for authenticating the user when accessing the third party service at home and may register their work Voice over IP VoIP phone as an authentication device for authenticating the user when accessing the third party service at work.

The location authentication service then compares the location of the first device and the location of the second device and determines whether the user can be authenticated for example as described with reference to numeral in . If a negative determination is made the location authentication service sends a notification indicating that the location is not authenticated. The notification may be a non acknowledgement as described with reference to numeral in . If a positive determination is made the location authentication service sends a notification indicating that the location is of the user is authenticated. The notification may be an acknowledgement as described with reference to numeral in .

In some embodiments to guard against a security compromise the location authentication service may not share the location of the authentication device with the third party service or other user devices. Further in other embodiments the location authentication service may employ facial recognition for authenticating a user. The location authentication service may retain an image file associated with the user as part of the user s profile such as a portrait of the user. To authenticate the user the location authentication service may require that a device of the user send an image of the user to the location authentication service. The location authentication service may compare the image of the user retained by the location authentication service to the image provided by the user s device. The retained image may be different from the received image and when the images are compared a variance between the two images may be determined. One or more criteria may be set to determine whether the user may be authenticated based at least in part on the received image. Facial and image recognition may be used in addition to or in place of location authentication for authenticating the user.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. Servers as used herein may be implemented in various ways such as hardware devices or virtual computer systems. In some contexts servers may refer to a programming module being executed on a computer system. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling some even a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server may provide access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the web server in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the web server. It should be understood that the web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein. Further operations described herein as being performed by a single device may unless otherwise clear from context be performed collectively by multiple devices which may form a distributed system.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect of the present disclosure. For example the data store illustrated may include mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting analysis or other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user through a device operated by the user might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited to the context of web pages but may be more generally applicable to processing requests in general where the requests are not necessarily requests for content.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable storage medium e.g. a hard disk random access memory read only memory etc. storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

The various embodiments further can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop laptop or tablet computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP protocols operating in various layers of the Open System Interconnection OSI model File Transfer Protocol FTP Universal Plug and Play UpnP Network File System NFS Common Internet File System CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a web server the web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP servers FTP servers Common Gateway Interface CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from user devices such as by executing one or more web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU or processor at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected when unmodified and referring to physical connections is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of the term set e.g. a set of items or subset unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context is to be construed as a nonempty collection comprising one or more members. Further unless otherwise noted or contradicted by context the term subset of a corresponding set does not necessarily denote a proper subset of the corresponding set but the subset and the corresponding set may be equal.

Conjunctive language such as phrases of the form at least one of A B and C or at least one of A B and C unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise clearly contradicted by context is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either A or B or C or any nonempty subset of the set of A and B and C. For instance in the illustrative example of a set having three members used in the above conjunctive phrase at least one of A B and C and at least one of A B and C refers to any of the following sets A B C A B A C B C A B C. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C to each be present.

Operations of processes described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Processes described herein or variations and or combinations thereof may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. The code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this disclosure are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for embodiments of the present disclosure to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the scope of the present disclosure unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

