---

title: Pressure-wash resistant label
abstract: A pressure wash resistant label comprising:


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08920895&OS=08920895&RS=08920895
owner: Brady Worldwide, Inc.
number: 08920895
owner_city: Milwaukee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This invention relates to labels. In one aspect the invention relates to labels for use in the food processing industry while in another aspect the invention relates to labels that are attached to food processing equipment.

Many industries require signs and labels to efficiently and effectively identify equipment product flow through processes and warn of potential hazards to workers. Signs and labels used in this manner must maintain utility both legibility and permanence throughout a reasonable lifespan. Replacement of this type of identification on a daily or even weekly basis is simply unreasonable and impractical. The food and beverage processing industry spans a wide range of industrial operations and many of these can include significant hazards to workers. In addition positive identification of processes is required to maintain product quality. Common to almost all of these operations is the requirement of sanitation.

Typically food and beverage processes are run for two shifts out of three in a day with the third shift reserved for cleaning and sanitation of the equipment. The cleaning is particularly harsh and includes exposures to high pressure spray scrubbing caustic and acidic cleaning chemicals and sanitizing chemicals. Usually this cleaning is done at elevated temperatures e.g. 50 C. to 80 C. or even higher . This effort is needed to inhibit the growth of toxic bacteria which could otherwise compromise the efficacy of the end product.

Great efforts are made to be certain that cleanliness and hygiene is maintained. Equipment that is designed to sustain this exposure is required and typically it comprises stainless steel as it can withstand the cleaning and presents a pore free surface to minimize the ability of bacterial harborage. The cleaning process designed to eliminate contaminants on the surface of equipment makes it especially difficult for identification labels to remain in place. While mechanical attachment can withstand the washing forces and chemical exposures it can also be compromised by the presence of crevices at attachment points that become a locus for bacterial harborage. Thus the use of a continuous adhesive is desirable for the attachment of signs and labels.

Signs and labels for industrial equipment that are commonplace in other industries are known to fail rapidly when exposed to the harsh conditions of the food and beverage processing operations. If the labels fail by falling off of the equipment to which it is attached then the additional problem of product contamination can result. While it is common in this industry to use metal detectors to find potential contaminants from the process these will not find plastic label materials.

What is clearly needed in this industry is the ability to label various process equipment with durable signage that can withstand the cleaning operations while maintaining legibility and if attachment failure occurs be readily detectable by process metal detection equipment.

Unless stated to the contrary implicit from the context or customary in the art all parts and percents are based on weight and all test methods are current as of the filing date of this disclosure. For purposes of United States patent practice the contents of any referenced patent patent application or publication are incorporated by reference in their entirety or its equivalent US version is so incorporated by reference especially with respect to the disclosure of synthetic techniques product and processing designs polymers catalysts definitions to the extent not inconsistent with any definitions specifically provided in this disclosure and general knowledge in the art.

The terms comprising including having and their derivatives are not intended to exclude the presence of any additional component step or procedure whether or not the same is specifically disclosed. In order to avoid any doubt all compositions claimed through use of the term comprising may include any additional additive adjuvant or compound whether polymeric or otherwise unless stated to the contrary. In contrast the term consisting essentially of excludes from the scope of any succeeding recitation any other component step or procedure excepting those that are not essential to operability. The term consisting of excludes any component step or procedure not specifically delineated or listed. The term or unless stated otherwise refers to the listed members individually as well as in any combination.

The numerical ranges in this disclosure are approximate and thus may include values outside of the range unless otherwise indicated. Numerical ranges include all values from and including the lower and the upper values in increments of one unit provided that there is a separation of at least two units between any lower value and any higher value. As an example if a compositional physical or other property such as for example layer or label thickness is from 100 to 1 000 it is intended that all individual values such as 100 101 102 etc. and sub ranges such as 100 to 144 155 to 170 197 to 200 etc. are expressly enumerated. For ranges containing values which are less than one or containing fractional numbers greater than one e.g. 1.1 1.5 etc. one unit is considered to be 0.0001 0.001 0.01 or 0.1 as appropriate. For ranges containing single digit numbers less than ten e.g. 1 to 5 one unit is typically considered to be 0.1. These are only examples of what is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical values between the lowest value and the highest value enumerated are to be considered to be expressly stated in this disclosure. Numerical values and ranges are provided within this disclosure for among other things layer and label thickness temperature and the like.

 Facial surface planar surface and like terms mean the flat surfaces of the layers that are in contact with the opposite and adjacent surfaces of the adjoining layers. Facial surfaces are in distinction to edge surfaces. A rectangular layer or label comprises two facial surfaces and four edge surfaces. A circular layer or label comprises two facial surfaces and one continuous edge surface.

 In contact in direct contact in intimate contact and like terms mean that one facial surface of one layer and one facial surface of another layer or the adhesive layer of a label and the exterior surface of an object or substrate to which the adhesive layer of the label is applied are in an adhering relationship to one another without an intermediate layer such as a coating is in an adhering relationship with the substrate to which it is applied.

 Blocked isocyanate and like terms mean an isocyanate reaction product which is stable at room temperature but dissociates to regenerate isocyanate functionality under the influence of heat. Blocked isocyanates are typically formed by the reaction of an isocyanate with either an active hydrogen or methylene compound such as a malonic ester.

The topcoat is provided to allow end user printability. It is preferably designed to be printable by thermal transfer printing and includes sufficient surface e.g. A in roughness to provide resistance of the added printed image to scrubbing. The coating is typically within the range of 0.0005 inches 0.0127 mm to 0.002 inches 0.051 mm thick more typically within the range of 0.0007 inches 0.0178 mm to 0.0015 inches 0.0381 mm .

The composition of the topcoat can vary widely. In one embodiment the topcoat comprises a crosslinked polyester binder with pigments ground to give a roughness in the range of 10 to 100 micro inches 0.254 to 2.54 microns m preferably 20 to 50 micro inches 0.508 to 1.270 m . Alternative topcoats include comprising one or more of polyimide acrylic phenoxy or melamine polymers. Fillers to attain roughness include carbonates silicates and oxides preferably calcium carbonate. Additional fillers to improve opacity color and appearance such as titanium dioxide and various water insoluble pigments yellow green blue red black . Although surface roughness is typically obtained through the inclusion of filler in the topcoat composition any method that will impart the desired degree of surface roughness to the topcoat can be employed e.g. physical or chemical abrasion corona or plasma treatment etc.

The facesheet is provided to give sufficient stiffness to the label to endure high pressure spray. A common measure of stiffness is Taber Stiffness ASTM D747 93 . The Taber stiffness of the composite label facesheet and coatings should be greater than at least 0.5 preferably greater than 6. The facesheet is typically in the form of a film with a typical thickness of 0.003 inches 0.0762 mm to 0.010 inches 0.254 mm more typically of 0.003 inches 0.0762 mm to 0.007 inches 0.1778 mm . The polymer from which the facesheet is made typically does not exhibit a Tg below 65 C. more typically a Tg not below 75 C. Tg is measured by a Differential Scanning calorimeter DSC per ASTM D3418. Typically the facesheet comprises a polyester pigmented white for opacity. Alternative and or additional polymers include but are not limited to polyimide polycarbonate acrylic polyethylene naphthalate and composite constructions with appropriate stiffness and thermal properties.

The optional detectable layer comprises a polymer with detectable metal filler particles such as stainless steel ferrites aluminum and the like. Stainless steel particles are preferred as they have the greatest chemical stability when mounted on a stainless steel surface minimal galvanic corrosion potential . This optional layer is typically of 0.0005 inches 0.0127 mm to 0.005 inches 0.127 mm thickness more typically from 0.002 inches 0.0508 mm to 0.004 inches 0.1016 mm in thickness. The polymer used to bind the particles to the face sheet is typically but not necessarily the same polymer used in the construction of the topcoat. The absence of this optional metal detecting layer in the label does not have a detrimental effect on the durability of the label.

Particle size is measured using a Coulter LS 13 320 and the maximum particle size is typically less than the coating thickness of the detectable layer. While some larger particles may protrude slightly from the detectable layer when the pressure sensitive adhesive coating is applied over this layer they are entirely covered. Preferred embodiments have an average particle size from 5 to 40 microns more preferably between 20 and 32 microns with 90 of the particles less than 50 microns. The quantity of the metal per area of the coating results in the metal detectability. For a preferred coat weight of 85 lbs ream 139 grams square meter a coating that comprises 66 metal particles is most preferred resulting in a mass of 57 lbs ream 92 grams square meter of the particles .

The adhesive is used to attach the label to the end use surface. Pressure sensitive crosslinked acrylics are preferred with a shear adhesion failure temperature SAFT typically above 120 C. more typically above 150 C. Other adhesives with appropriate SAFT that can be used in the practice of this invention include but are not limited to hybrid rubber acrylic rubber and thermoset adhesives such as polyester or polyurethane. The thickness of the adhesive layer typically is in the range of 0.0005 inches 0.0127 mm to 0.003 inches 0.0762 mm more typically of 0.0009 inches 0.02286 mm to 0.002 inches 0.0508 mm . SAFT is measured by ASTM D4498 95 using a ChemInstruments Shear Oven System model SOS 8 .

The release liner is any standard paper or film release liner typically silicone coated to protect the adhesive until application and to carry the label stock through a printer. The preferred release liner is either a film type or a coated paper to give the adhesive a smooth surface to minimize entrapped air when bonded to the end use surface.

While rigid media can be printed by non contact methods satisfactorily such as by inkjet for best durability thermal transfer print is preferred. For an end user to print its own labels by thermal transfer printing the label stock must be sufficiently flexible to pass through a commercial thermal transfer printer as this is a contact method requiring even pressure directly on the label stock. Irregularities result in uneven pressure so some flexibility is needed to result in good print quality. As such while greater stiffness gives better resistance to spray washing it also impedes printability when it exceeds an upper limit. Polyester film labels with appropriate print and metal detectable layers an adhesive and release liner are best if they do not exceed 0.007 inches 0.1778 mm in thickness stiffness increases greatly with thickness . A common measure of stiffness is Taber Stiffness ASTM D747 93 . Taber Stiffness Units are defined as the bending moment of of a gram applied to a 1 wide specimen at a 5 centimeter test length flexing it to an angle of 15 . A Stiffness Unit is the equivalent of one gram centimeter.

Spray resistance testing shows failures occurring by adhesive failure. This occurs when an edge is lifted and then quickly propagates until all or a part of the label is removed. The key to gaining spray resistance is a combination of elevated temperature adhesion and face sheet stiffness. While stiffness can be gained by increasing thickness this alone will not be successful unless the problem of temperature is addressed. Exposure can range up to 80 C. This can cause the adhesion properties to be reduced. Stiffness also diminishes in most polymeric materials with temperature markedly so after a material is heated above its glass transition temperature Tg . Face sheets made from polyester in the range of 0.003 inches to 0.020 inches thick are satisfactory with greater thickness providing much better resistance. Ideally a thickness in the 0.005 inches to 0.010 inches is desirable with the thinner side of the range benefiting from additional reinforcement by other coatings top coat and or under coat .

Another method of obtaining sufficient stiffness is to form a composite by lamination of thinner layers together with an adhesive of sufficient adhesion and temperature resistance to obtain an overall thickness in the desired range. In this case it is possible to use a laminating adhesive that includes the metal particles required if metal detectability is desired. In this case the metal particles must be smaller than the thickness of the laminating adhesive layer.

While stiffer thicker labels can prove difficult to print in standard thermal transfer printers especially in roll form much thicker materials can be used if pre printed and supplied in sheet form.

Adhesives typically lose adhesion as temperature increases. However cross linked acrylic pressure sensitive adhesives PSA are often an exception to this observation. Particular examples of crosslinked acrylic PSA include DUROTAK 109A from Henkel and MORSTIK 717 from The Dow Chemical Company. Both exhibit sufficient adhesion to endure a 500 psi spray applied at a distance of 5 inches up to 80 C. Higher pressures can be resisted when the spray is restricted to angles above 60 degrees to the surface and or the spray is from a greater distance. Additionally using a non crosslinked adhesive MORSTIK 123 or an adhesive that has been plasticized by contact with plasticized vinyl B595 will result in earlier failure at either higher pressure or higher temperatures see Tables 1 and 2 below .

If the convenience of a pressure sensitive adhesive is not needed then a thermoset adhesive can be utilized. One example is a crosslinked thermoplastic polyester laminating adhesive.

Scrub resistance is particularly difficult for user added printing. Even normally durable ribbon inks become abraded by exposure to the abrasive. The scrubbie type pad a pad coated with an abrasive grit is very effective for removing baked on residues. However the right combination of surface roughness and ribbon quality can produce a very durable image. While a perfectly smooth surface is optimum for thermal transfer imaging some roughness can be tolerated if a ribbon with sufficient flow at application print head temperature is used. The correct surface roughness not only enables good print quality but also protects the ribbon ink that flows into the valleys sufficiently to endure some scrubbing especially if the roughness is imparted by a durable coating polymer and filler blend . While some ink is inevitably removed by the grit in a scrubbie pad there is enough left in the valleys of a rough coating to maintain the legibility of a safety sign. A surface roughness Ra greater than 10 micro inches results in good scrub resistance with a suitable thermal transfer ribbon. A surface roughness in excess of 70 micro inches results in poor quality printing.

Metal detectability is imparted by including a metal in the construction. As noted above aluminum is unsatisfactory due to its incompatibility with both high and low pH cleaners. Additionally aluminum is avoided in the food and beverage industry because this industry almost exclusively uses stainless steel equipment. In a wet environment galvanic corrosion can occur between aluminum and stainless steel. To impart metal detectability to a label stainless steel is incorporated into the label in a sufficient quantity such that it can be effectively detected with standard metal detectors.

While it may suffice to use a sheet of stainless steel it becomes a problem to cut it and not impart coining corrugation at the cut edge to some degree. Even a small degree of coining can cause a defect in adhesion at the edge which is the most critical location for both spray resistance and resistance to bacterial harborage. As such a magnetically detectable grade of stainless steel dispersed in a coating either as an undercoat or as a laminating layer within an adhesive can be both detectable and durable.

In any construction the metal detectability feature can only be effective if the metal containing layer stays integral with the other layers. Preferably the adhesion of the metal detecting layer to the layers above and below it is greater than the adhesion of the label to the surface to which it is applied. Sufficient adhesion is a function of the surfaces to which the stainless steel is coated or laminated as well as the nature of the binding polymer and the ratio of particles to binder and the size distribution and type of particles. Detectability can be enhanced by increasing particle loading however adhesion between layers is typically sacrificed for this gain. As discussed the mass of metal particles per area results in the metal detectability. This can be accomplished with higher particle loading or higher coat weight. A loading in the range of 30 to 80 weight percent of metal particles will be detectable preferably 45 to 75 weight percent and most preferably 60 to 70 weight percent at coat weights in the range of 40 to 140 pounds ream 65 to 228 grams square meter preferably 60 to 120 pounds ream 98 to 196 grams square meter and most preferably from 75 to 105 pounds ream 122 to 171 grams square meter . The mass of metal particles per area should be at least 35 pounds ream 57 grams square meter with detectability improving at higher metal mass area. An optimal compromise as shown in the Example is a ratio of about 2 parts by weight of magnetic stainless steel particles to 1 part of polyester binder 67 weight percent at a coat weight of 85 pounds ream 139 grams square meter resulting in a metal mass area of 57 pounds ream 93 grams square meter . Again the Example shows a good compromise of cost coat weight and performance. reports the detectability of the example at various sizes compared to equivalent aluminum or iron ball bearings at 100 feet minute on a conveyer.

In addition to these features the label materials should be easy to install and while standard pre printed text and graphics are needed in addition the user can make one of a kind labels for identification and labeling of unique equipment and or hazards using commercially available printing equipment. For industrial applications requiring good durability thermal transfer printing is commonly used in which an ink is transferred with heat supplied by a printhead from a ribbon to the printed surface.

The following examples were performed to test the effectiveness of inventive and known label constructions. The labels were tested to measure their relative performance with several adhesives when coated to a 10 mil 0.254 mm thick polyester film.

Each of labels A B and C were prepared by coating a 10 mil 0.254 mm polyester film Mylar Type A from DuPont Teijin Films with an adhesive at a rate of 30 pounds per ream 48.9 grams square meter and then dried at 300 F. 149 C. for 3 minutes. The adhesive used for label A was DUROTAK 109A a crosslinked acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive with SAFT 200C from Henkel for label B it was MORSTIK 717 a crosslinked acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive with SAFT 200C from Dow and for label C it was MORSTIK 123 a styrene butadiene rubber based pressure sensitive adhesive with 85C SAFT also from Dow. Label D was prepared by coating the 10 mil polyester film with a heat activated adhesive made from 90 parts thermoplastic polyester adhesive ADCOTE 1140 from The Dow Chemical Company and 5 parts blocked isocyanate crosslinker RAA 3061 from Royce and dried for 3 minutes at 200 F. 93 C. so as not to unblock and thus activate the crosslinker. SAFT for the crosslinked polyester was not measured as it is greatly increased once activated but not before. Brady B595 was used for comparison however it is based on a hybrid rubber acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive with very low SAFT 

Samples were cut to credit card size 86 mm 54 mm with 3 mm radius corners and laminated to stainless steel panels. The panel for label D was subsequently heated to 160 C. for 30 minutes to crosslink the thermoplastic polyester. All samples were allowed to build adhesion for 4 hours prior to spray testing.

Samples were exposed to spray test described below 5 revolutions per minute rpm turntable speed and sprayed for 30 seconds each at 0 30 90 and 60 degree angles . Testing was done at 500 psi 3.45 MPa at flow rates set between 3.5 and 4 gallons per minute 13.2 to 15.1 liters minute to attain the correct pressure with the required nozzle . The temperature of the water started at pipe tap temperature 10 C. and after each spray cycle all angles the temperature increased by 10 C. starting at 30 C. the lowest heater temperature setting and increasing to 90 C. Testing went until failure which was defined as lifting of an edge as detected by the change in deflection of the spray.

One label material that is very successful in many industrial applications was used for comparison. This label material B595 from Brady Corporation is made from a durable thermal transfer printable vinyl face sheet and an aggressive hybrid acrylic and rubber pressure sensitive adhesive. This label has been used commercially in various food and beverage processing applications but found to have a short life because of the face sheet the added print or the adhesive. Additionally many different label types were also tried in the use simulation test described below with varied results. None could sufficiently endure all of the parameters with shortcomings found in all of the tested attributes.

To determine resistance to high pressure spraying two procedures were developed. One is a use simulation describe below. Also developed was a test based on an industry standard for equipment used in processes with high pressure high temperature spray DIN40050 9 IP 69K rating . This test includes a turntable that rotates a test sample and a 25 degree angle fan spray 25 degree included angle at angles of 0 30 60 and 90 degrees impinging on the sample. One cycle consists of 30 seconds exposure at each angle by high pressure spray at 4 gallons minute at elevated temperature. Temperature pressure time or cycles to fail can be noted. As this test is done in very close proximity to the sample 4 to 6 inches it can cause unrealistically high pressures as most cleaning is done from a 12 to 24 inch range. As such testing proceeded at a lower pressure 500 psi nozzle pressure than that used in the use simulation tests described below .

To determine resistance to scrubbing a linear wash test was developed. A green heavy duty scrubbie 3M Scotch BRITE Heavy Duty Scouring Pad 86 designed for cleaning food processing equipment cut to 1 inch 1 inch 25.4 mm 25.4 mm is rubbed cyclically across a sample at a rate of 30 cycles back and forth per minute that is immersed in room temperature 20 C. water with 2 psi of pressure. This is repeated for hundreds of cycles to determine the effect on legibility of print.

Various label products from Brady Corporation were measured for Ra surface roughness in micro inches per JIS B0601 2001 on a MITUTOYO SJ 400. They were printed with a thermal transfer printer Brady BBP 31 and tested per the scrub test above for 1000 cycles. The print was subjectively evaluated on a 1 good 2 fair 3 poor and 4 bad scale. While all had some print removal none were considered good however a number were rated fair indicating that the text was legible and a label or sign would be serviceable convey the message .

While a smooth coating developed for thermal transfer printable products can produce a high quality image it is apparent that if the surface roughness Ra is too low less than 10 the image cannot endure this type of scrubbing. If it is too high greater than 100 the surface is too uneven to print by this method. Thus it is significant to this invention to have a surface roughness between 10 and 100 to enable a scrub resistant label or sign that is user printable by thermal transfer printing.

Metal detectability was determined by the use of a metal detector common in the industry SAFELINE by Mettler Toledo Safeline . Sensitivity was set for detection of various diameter ball bearings of both aluminum and iron. Detectors are set in industry for various sensitivities corresponding to different diameter ball bearings to prevent false positives yet detect potential contaminants.

The graph in below shows the correlation of the label size square label to calibration ball diameter for a label with the detection layer of the preferred embodiment 85 pounds ream coat weight of a coating as described in Example Set 2. This illustrates the minimum detectable label size by edge length for a metal detector with sensitivity set to the ball diameter indicated. Smaller labels or equivalent pieces of metal cannot be detected. Labels and label pieces larger than this size can be detected.

Labels were mounted to a stainless steel panel and then cycles consisting of spray rinse chemical exposure scrubbing and sanitizing were performed as described in Table 3.

The test cycle represented one day of end use as food and beverage processing facilities are cleaned on a daily basis to maintain sanitation. This was repeated to simulate months of use. As the cycling proceeded spray pressure for the pre rinse and rinse cycles was increased and spray temperature was increased to best differentiate between the samples as reported in Table 4 all spray is through a 25 degree included angle nozzle at 3.5 to 4.0 gallons minute 13.2 to 15.1 liters minute .

The Use Simulation test is a means to determine the overall effects of use in an accelerated fashion. Labels attached to a large stainless steel panel endure the total of a daily exposure to a washdown cleaning cycle including pressure spray high temperature chemical cleaners and sanitizers and scrubbing every 30 minutes. The ability to endure use of this type and differentiation between label types and designs is established. The test starts with a simulation of lower pressures at a greater distance and proceeds to increase in severity first in pressure increasing nozzle pressure and then reducing distance . This is followed by increasing temperature and further increasing nozzle pressure at the reduced distance. Failure modes are typically an edge or corner lift although in some cases the label wrinkles when the substrate is vinyl. It also Shows a failure mode of either poor topcoat adhesion or substrate delamination illustrating the significance of the cohesion of the label itself. See Table 5 below for results.

A topcoat is prepared by dissolving 15.56 parts by weight of a polyester resin MORESTER 49000P available from The Dow Chemical Company into 25.17 parts of nitroethane 13.24 parts of toluene and 21.55 parts of methyl ethyl ketone solvents. To this is added 5.96 parts of titanium dioxide pigment which is ground on a high speed Cowles mixer to attain a Hegman of 7.0 or greater per ASTM D1210 using a Hegman gauge. 8.97 parts of magnesium silicate and 8.97 parts of calcium carbonate are added and ground to attain a Hegman of 6.0 or greater. To this is added 0.08 parts of DESMODUR N75 isocyanate crosslinker available from Bayer Material Science at the time of coating. The coating is applied to the facesheet at a coat weight of 12.5 pounds ream 20.4 grams square meter dry. A facesheet is selected from 0.003 0.0762 mm 0.005 0.127 mm and 0.007 0.1778 mm thick white polyester film MELINEX 329 available from DuPont Teijin Films .

A detectable layer is prepared by dissolving 21.16 parts of a polyester resin VYLON 270 available from Toyobo into 14.41 parts of ethyl acetate 14.41 parts of toluene and 7.19 parts of xylene. To this 42.31 parts of stainless steel POLYMAG SS from ErieZ Magnetics are added. At the time of coating 0.53 parts of DESMODUR N75 isocyanate crosslinker available from Bayer Material Science is added. This coating is applied to the back side of the facesheet at a coat weight of 85 pounds ream 139 grams square meter dry.

MORSTIK 717 self crosslinking acrylic pressure sensitive is coated at 22 pounds ream 35.9 grams square meter .

A silicone coated release liner is laminated to the adhesive to protect it. A clay coated paper liner is used to give a smooth texture to the adhesive.

Examples and Samples are evaluated for Taber Stiffness ASTM D747 93 and durability in the use simulation test detailed above. Use simulation cycles in which a defect occurs typically an edge or corner lift are noted. The results are reported in Table 5.

The test results clearly show that a high Taber Stiffness is needed for long term durability in a high pressure high temperature wash down application. The only sample with a Taber Stiffness over 0.5 to fail failed in layers rather than as a unit. This was due to insufficient interlayer adhesion and while the composite stiffness was high when delaminated the stiffness of the layers was too low. The following conclusions are supported by the data 

It is specifically intended that the present invention not be limited to the embodiments and illustrations contained herein but include modified forms of those embodiments including portions of the embodiments and combinations of elements of different embodiments as come within the scope of the following claims.

