---

title: Medical fluid injector
abstract: Systems and methods for intelligently delivering fluid to a targeted tissue. The systems and methods may include directing a pump to distribute fluid to a targeted tissue and receiving one or more signals from an intracorporeal sensing system, where the one or more signals correspond to one or more sensed feedback parameters at the targeted tissue. The systems and methods may also include determining whether the one or more sensed feedback parameters are within an acceptable range. If the one or more sensed feedback parameters are not within the acceptable range, the systems and methods may include determining an adjusted velocity for the plunger necessary to adjust the pressure of the fluid in the pump so that the one or more sensed feedback parameters move within the acceptable range and directing the pump to distribute the fluid at the adjusted velocity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517305&OS=09517305&RS=09517305
owner: BAYER HEALTHCARE LLC
number: 09517305
owner_city: Whippany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
Gene therapy in general terms includes the use of genetic material as a pharmaceutical agent that can be used to treat disease. An illustrative form of gene therapy may include using genetic material that encodes a functional therapeutic gene to replace a mutated gene. Other forms may include directly correcting a mutation or using genetic material that encodes a therapeutic protein drug rather than a natural human gene to provide treatment. In gene therapy the genetic material that encodes a therapeutic protein may be packaged within a vector which is used to get the genetic material inside cells within the body. Once inside the genetic material may become expressed by the cell machinery which may result in the production of a therapeutic protein.

Current methods of providing gene therapy may require isolating tissue within the body of a patient with an embolization balloon catheter and flooding the tissue with a fluid at a high flow rate and a high volume to cause secretion past capillary walls and into the tissue. This method may cause the tissue to swell to a size that is larger than its normal size. The swelling of the tissue may allow for gene therapy ingredients to be successfully injected and absorbed into the tissue. However this method does not currently use a device that is capable of successfully injecting a sufficient amount of fluid monitoring the pressure of the tissue to detect pressure changes and intelligently adjusting the fluid delivery based upon the pressure changes.

In various embodiments a system for intelligently delivering fluid to a targeted tissue may include a pump configured to contain a volume of fluid at a pressure. In some embodiments the fluid may include one or more gene therapy ingredients. The system may also include a processor an intracorporeal sensing system in operable communication with the processor and a non transitory processor readable storage medium in communication with the processor. The non transitory processor readable storage medium may contain one or more programming instructions that when executed cause the processor to direct the pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue at an initial velocity receive one or more signals from the intracorporeal sensing system where the one or more signals correspond to one or more sensed feedback parameters at the targeted tissue and determine whether the one or more sensed feedback parameters are within an acceptable range. The sensed feedback parameters may be one or more of pressure in a receiving vessel pressure in the targeted tissue an image property a tissue stretch property a tissue conductivity a tissue ultrasound property a flow rate in the targeted tissue a fluid cell count a fluid particle count a density of a measurable tracer and the like. If the one or more sensed feedback parameters are not within the acceptable range the one or more programming instructions may when executed cause the processor to determine an adjusted velocity for the pump necessary to adjust the pressure of the fluid in the pump so that the one or more sensed feedback parameters move within the acceptable range and direct the pump to distribute the fluid at the adjusted velocity. In some embodiments the storage medium may further include one or more programming instructions that when executed direct the processor to receive one or more inputs wherein the one or more inputs correspond to data that defines the acceptable range.

In some embodiments the system may also include a display in operable communication with the processor. The storage medium may further include one or more programming instructions that when executed direct the processor to direct the display to display data corresponding to the acceptable range in a user readable format. The storage medium may also include one or more programming instructions that when executed direct the processor to direct the display to display the one or more sensed feedback parameters in a user readable format.

In some embodiments the system may also include one or more driving devices in operable communication with the processing device and an actuation component mechanically connected to the one or more driving devices and the pump. The storage medium may include one or more programming instructions that when executed cause the processor to activate the one or more driving devices to cause the actuation component to direct the pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue.

In some embodiments the pump may be a syringe body and the system may also include a pressure jacket that is configured to surround the syringe body and prevent the syringe body from expanding. In some embodiments the system may also include an end plug connected to a distal portion of the syringe. The end plug may be formed of a solid piece of material and may have a bore therethrough for accurate distribution of the fluid. The end plug may also be configured to prevent leakage of the fluid from the syringe body. In some embodiments the intracorporeal sensing systems may include a sensor that is disposed at or near the targeted tissue. In some embodiments the volume of fluid may be about 10 ml to about 2000 ml prior to distribution of the fluid to the targeted tissue and the fluid pressure may about 10 psi to about 2000 psi prior to distribution of the fluid to the targeted tissue.

In various embodiments a method for automatically and intelligently delivering a fluid to a targeted tissue may include directing by a processor a pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue at an initial velocity receiving by the processor one or more signals from an intracorporeal sensing system wherein the one or more signals correspond to one or more sensed feedback parameters at the targeted tissue and determining by the processor whether the one or more sensed feedback parameters are within an acceptable range. If the one or more sensed feedback parameters are not within the acceptable range the method may also include determining by the processor an adjusted velocity for the pump necessary to adjust the pressure of the fluid so that the one or more sensed feedback parameters move within the acceptable range and directing by the processor the pump to move at the adjusted velocity. In some embodiments the method may also include receiving by the processor one or more inputs where the one or more inputs correspond to data that defines the acceptable range directing by the processor a display to display data corresponding to the acceptable range in a user readable format and directing by the processor the display to display the one or more sensed feedback parameters in the user readable format.

In some embodiments directing pump to distribute the fluid may include causing by the processor one or more driving devices to activate wherein activation of the one or more driving devices causes an actuation component to direct the pump to distribute the fluid. In some embodiments directing the pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue may further include directing the pump to distribute about 10 ml to about 2000 ml of fluid to the targeted tissue at a pressure of about 10 psi to about 2000 psi.

In various embodiments a system for intelligently delivering fluid to a targeted tissue may include a pump configured to contain a volume of fluid at a pressure therein a processor an intracorporeal sensing system in operable communication with the processor a display in operable communication with the processor and a non transitory processor readable storage medium in communication with the processor. The non transitory processor readable storage medium may contain one or more programming instructions that when executed cause the processor to direct the pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue at an initial velocity and receive one or more signals from the intracorporeal sensing systems having a sensor distributed at or near the targeted tissue receive one or more inputs determine whether the one or more sensed feedback parameters are within the acceptable range direct the display to display data corresponding to the acceptable range in a user readable format and direct the display to display the one or more sensed feedback parameters in the user readable format. The one or more signals may correspond to one or more sensed feedback parameters at the targeted tissue and the one or more inputs correspond to data that defines an acceptable range. If the one or more sensed feedback parameters are not within the acceptable range the non transitory processor readable storage medium may contain one or more programming instructions that when executed determine an adjusted velocity for the pump necessary to adjust the pressure of the fluid in the pump so that the one or more sensed feedback parameters move within the acceptable range and direct the pump to distribute the fluid at the adjusted velocity.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each illustrated embodiment or every possible implementation of the present invention. The detailed description which follows particularly exemplifies these embodiments.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that they are not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit their scope which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments disclosed the preferred methods devices and materials are now described.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

For purposes of the description hereinafter the terms upper lower right left vertical horizontal top bottom lateral longitudinal and derivatives thereof shall relate to the orientation of embodiments disclosed in the drawing figures. However it is to be understood that embodiments may assume alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments. Hence specific dimensions and other physical characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.

The word proximal refers to a direction relatively closer to a clinician or operator using the device described herein and the word distal refers to a direction relatively further from the clinician or operator. For example the end of a syringe placed nearest the body of a patient is considered a distal end of the syringe while the end closes to the clinician is a proximal end of the syringe. The terms axial or axially refer generally to an axis around which the particular objects being referred to are preferably formed although not necessarily symmetrically therearound . The term radial refers generally to a direction normal to the axis or along a radius of an object having a circular cross section.

The word subject refers to one or more persons and or animals receiving treatment from the apparatus and or components disclosed herein according to various embodiments. The subject may be any human patient male or female of any age race height or weight. In addition the subject may be any species of animal including but not limited to dogs horses cows pigs rats mice and the like.

It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments may assume various alternative variations and step sequences except where expressly specified to the contrary. It is also to be understood that the specific devices and processes illustrated in the attached drawings and described in the following specification are simply exemplary embodiments.

The systems described herein may be used for treatment of any type of tissue particularly tissue that is amenable to gene therapy treatment. Illustrative examples of tissue that may be used may include but are not limited to liver tissue muscle tissue brain tissue and tumor tissue. The liver is an illustrative tissue used as a pathway in gene therapy to deliver a drug as a treatment for various diseases and disorders through the introduction of an altered gene. To effectively administer the treatment the liver vasculature is injected with a rapid delivery that permeates the capillary wall of the liver to allow penetration of the delivery drug. At some point during the drug delivery beyond or including that necessary to achieve the desired extravasation of the delivery the capillary and cell walls may become damaged. Although damage can be measured post injection damage detection cannot be determined immediately. Measurement of elevated transaminases such as for example aspartate aminotransferase AST and alanine aminotransferase ATL may indicate the extent of damage but may only be present up to 6 to 8 hours following the procedure. The elevated ATL and AST levels are indicative of enzymes that are released during repair of the damage. In order to prevent unnecessary or extended liver damage a change in the in vivo pressure can be used as an event to determine the management of the delivery to minimize liver damage. The change that occurs is typically a drop in pressure but a rapid increase can be used to determine an occlusion as well. As a simple control the injection can terminate continue forward for a timed amount or operated in a keep the vein open KVO mode to maintain a reduced pressure until saturation is achieved. The use of statistical i.e. historic data along with weight size and other diagnostic information can be used to fine tune the procedure.

Various embodiments discussed herein are directed generally to a fluid delivery system that is capable of delivering a large volume of a fluid such as a fluid containing gene therapy ingredients to a targeted tissue within a subject. The large volume of fluid may be delivered at a high pressure and the fluid delivery system may be capable of monitoring the pressure at the syringe tip and at the targeted tissue. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may be able to quickly discover and respond to changes in pressure to ensure proper delivery of fluid to the targeted tissue.

In various embodiments the injector body may be configured as illustrated in . Generally the injector body may include at least an injector and a syringe assembly . The injector may generally be configured to provide a force upon the syringe assembly to effectuate distribution of the contents of the syringe assembly as discussed in greater detail herein. In some embodiments the injector may be configured to drive a pump such as for example a piston pump a reciprocating pump a rotational pump a gear pump a peristaltic pump a diaphragm pump or the like.

In some embodiments the injector may include a housing . The housing may include one or more enclosure pieces and one or more access panels which may allow a user to access portions of the injector covered by the housing or allow for improved access to exposed portions of the injector. In further embodiments the housing may include hinged or slidable access panels for accessing motors or pumps for moving fluid through the delivery tubing and or accessing ports for connecting for example a power cord a controller a computer a memory device a display a hand switch or footswitch or various combinations thereof. In other embodiments the housing may be removably attached to a frame and may be removed to allow access to components such as motors pumps syringe holders tubing management systems without the need for an additional access panel .

In various embodiments the syringe assembly may generally include a pressure jacket an endplate a securing device and an end plug . The end plug may include an opening to allow fluid to pass therethrough. In some embodiments the pressure jacket may enclose a syringe body therein as discussed in greater detail herein. In some embodiments the pressure jacket may be configured to attach the syringe assembly to the injector through the use of an attachment mechanism as described in greater detail herein. In some embodiments the pressure jacket may include one or more openings such as slots windows or the like for viewing the fluid contained in the syringe body. In some embodiments the pressure jacket may include any number of marks and or the like to assist a user in assembling the pressure jacket to the various other components depicted herein for determining the amount of fluid within the syringe body and or the like.

As also depicted in the pressure jacket may enclose the syringe body according to various embodiments. The syringe body is not limited by this disclosure and may generally be any syringe body pump or the like now known or later developed. Thus while the term syringe body is primarily used herein those skilled in the art may appreciate that the term may encompass any type of pump particularly fluid pumps. Illustrative examples of syringe bodies may include but are not limited to a bladder syringe a blow molded syringe a collapsible syringe a rigid syringe a balloon type syringe a flexible wall syringe or the like. In some embodiments the syringe body may be configured to float or move freely within the pressure jacket without affecting its volume accuracy but may be sufficiently secured to prevent excessive movement within the pressure jacket. In some embodiments the syringe body may define a fluid delivery volume therein . The fluid delivery volume may be configured to house a sufficient volume of fluid to effect delivery to a subject as described herein. In certain embodiments the fluid volume may be about 10 ml to about 2000 ml. Specific examples of fluid volumes may be about 10 ml about 25 ml about 50 ml about 100 ml about 200 ml about 250 ml about 500 ml about 750 ml about 1000 ml about 2000 ml or any value or range between any two of these values. In some embodiments the fluid volume may be greater than 2000 ml. In some embodiments the syringe volume may be different than the fluid volume. In particular embodiments the syringe volume may be larger than the fluid volume. Thus in some embodiments the syringe volume may be about 10 ml to about 2000 ml. Specific examples of syringe volumes may be about 10 ml about 25 ml about 50 ml about 100 ml about 200 ml about 250 ml about 500 ml about 750 ml about 1000 ml about 2000 ml or any value or range between any two of these values. In some embodiments the syringe volume may be greater than 2000 ml. In some embodiments the syringe body may incorporate a pump system that is attached to a large volume of fluid to allow an injected to be very small or vary large and or adjustable during the procedure.

In various embodiments the syringe body may be constructed out of a material that is capable of withstanding a fluid pressure of about 10 psi to about 2000 psi. Specific examples of pressures may include about 10 psi about 25 psi about 50 psi about 100 psi about 250 psi about 500 psi about 750 psi about 1000 psi about 1500 psi about 2000 psi or any value or range between any two of these values. In some embodiments the syringe body by itself may not be capable of withstanding the fluid pressure but when accompanied by the pressure jacket described herein the syringe body may be able to withstand the fluid pressure. In some embodiments the syringe body may generally be constructed of materials that do not alter or react with the contents of the syringe body. In some embodiments the syringe body may be of uniform construction with little or no imperfections on any surface of the syringe body and or any pump components particularly imperfections that may trap air cells fluid or other components within. In particular embodiments the syringe body may be cylindrical in shape where the inside radius of the syringe body is uniform throughout its length such as for example a single hollow tube. In some embodiments the syringe body may be machined as a single piece. In other embodiments the syringe body may be molded as a single piece. In some embodiments use of a single hollow tube for the syringe body may allow for the tube to be extruded or machined to a tighter tolerance for the radius of the syringe body. Illustrative examples of a tight tolerance that are acceptable may include about 0.001 inches to about 0.009 inches. Particular examples may include about 0.001 inches about 0.002 inches about 0.003 inches about 0.005 inches about 0.007 inches about 0.009 inches or any value or range between any two of these values. In some embodiments the syringe body may be constructed of a disposable material. In other embodiments the syringe body may be constructed of a reusable material so that the syringe body can be refilled for subsequent use. In some embodiments the syringe body may be constructed of polycarbonate polyethyleneterephthalate PET cyclic olefin polymer polypropylene polystyrene polyvinylidene chloride PVDC polyethylene napthalate PEN high density polyethylene HDPE polypropylene nylon glass glass containing compounds glass like compounds and or the like.

In some embodiments the syringe body may include a distal end and a proximal end . The distal end of the syringe body may be configured to receive the end plug to form a seal with the inside surface of the syringe body by means of a first seal . In some embodiments the first seal may be a separate component from the end plug such as for example an added O ring and or the like. In these embodiments the first seal may be fixedly attached to the end plug by any means of attachment including attachment apparatuses adhesives and or the like or the first seal may be removably attached to the end plug. In other embodiments the first seal may be fabricated as a portion of the end plug . In some embodiments the end plug may be fabricated as a single solid piece with an opening therethrough to ensure that fluid can only travel through the opening and that no amount of fluid may become trapped in pockets or imperfections within the end plug. The end plug may be constructed of any material that does not interact with the fluid and is capable of withstanding fluid pressures as described herein. In some embodiments the end plug may be constructed of a disposable material. In other embodiments the end plug may be constructed of a reusable material.

In some embodiments the end plug may be secured to the syringe body by means of one or more attachment devices . The one or more attachment devices are not limited by this disclosure and may generally be any means of providing a secure connection of the end plug to the syringe body . Specific examples of attachment devices may include clips fasteners screws rivets and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more attachment devices may be fabricated as a part of the end plug . In some embodiments the one or more attachment devices may be fabricated as part of the syringe body . In yet other embodiments the one or more attachment devices may be standalone attachment devices that are not fabricated as a portion of either the syringe body or the end plug . In embodiments where the attachment devices are fabricated as standalone devices or as a part of the end plug the distal end may include one or more clearance slots that may be configured to receive the attachment devices and ensure a secure attachment.

In various embodiments the syringe body may be configured to receive a plunger therein. In some embodiments the plunger may form a seal against the interior of the syringe body by means of one or more second seals . In some embodiments the second seals may be a separate component from the plunger such as for example added O rings and or the like. In these embodiments the second seals may be fixedly attached to the plunger by any means of attachment including attachment apparatuses adhesives and or the like or the second seals may be removably attached to the first plunger. In other embodiments the second seals may be fabricated as a portion of the plunger . In various embodiments the second seals may be fabricated of any material commonly known for use in providing a seal from liquids particularly pressurized liquids. Specific examples may include rubber ethylene propylene diene monomer rubber EPDM rubber thermoplastic elastomers polymers and or the like. In various embodiments the plunger may be fabricated of a disposable material. In other embodiments the plunger may be fabricated of a reusable material. The type of material is not limited by this disclosure and may generally be any material now known or later developed for use in syringe plungers.

In some embodiments the plunger may be configured to slidably move in a distal and or a proximal direction within the syringe body as described in greater detail herein. In some embodiments the plunger may be precisely located so that the location of the plunger corresponds to an exact amount of fluid located within the fluid delivery volume . For example in some embodiments movement of the plunger in a distal direction of 0.009 inches may cause 1 ml of fluid to be expelled from the fluid delivery volume .

In various embodiments the pressure jacket may be configured to slidably move in relation to the syringe body to encapsulate the syringe body therein. The pressure jacket may further be configured to provide a stable means of encapsulating the syringe body to prevent excessive movement of the syringe body expansion of the syringe body destruction of the syringe body and or the like. By providing a stable means of encapsulating the syringe body the pressure jacket may act to ensure an accurate pressure fluid delivery and volume of fluid within the syringe body at all times as described in greater detail herein. In some embodiments the pressure jacket may be securably positioned around the syringe body by means of the endplate and or the securing device . In particular embodiments the endplate may contain an opening to allow a distal end of the end plug to extend therethrough. Accordingly the securing device may be secured around the distal end of the end plug to secure the endplate to the pressure jacket . For example the distal end of the end plug may contain a plurality of threads so that the securing device may act as a nut or the like and can be screwed onto the end plug. In some embodiments the endplate may be affixed to the end plug and the pressure jacket in such a manner that the pressure jacket is releasably secured to the injector head and also constrains the syringe body while still allowing some minimal movement of the syringe body. Thus in these embodiments the pressure jacket may be securely connected to the endplate .

Referring to and the injector may include one or more driving devices according to various embodiments. The driving devices may include motors or the like. In some embodiments the driving devices may be configured to apply a moving force to at least a portion of the syringe body or components thereof. The driving devices may be attached to the housing or a frame provided under the housing which maintains the position of the driving devices during use or the fluid delivery system . In some embodiments the driving devices may have a syringe actuation component such as a piston. The actuation component may include a connector that can be configured to connect to the plunger and allow the motor to advance or retract the plunger in the syringe body . In certain embodiments the actuation component may include a piston that contacts the plunger and is capable of advancing the plunger but not retracting the plunger. In some embodiments the actuation component may include one or more sensors not shown positioned to contact the plunger before or during actuation. Thus in such embodiments the driving devices may effectuate discharge of the fluid only. In other embodiments the actuation component may include a piston that contacts the plunger and locks into place via a removable locking mechanism . The removable locking mechanism may allow for attachment and detachment of the plunger from the actuation component so that various plungers and or syringe assemblies may be used with the same injector such as for example disposable syringe assemblies. The removable locking mechanism is not limited by this disclosure and may include any removable locking mechanisms now known or later developed particularly those used for attachment and removal of various syringe components.

In various embodiments the injector may include a syringe mounting mechanism . In some embodiments the syringe mounting mechanism may generally be configured to mount or hold the syringe assembly to the injector . Embodiments are not limited to any particular syringe mounting mechanism. For example in some embodiments the syringe mounting mechanism may be a device configured to accept and hold a syringe or vial holding fluid by removably attaching to the syringe or vial body or flanges associated with the syringe or vial. In other embodiments the syringe mounting mechanism may be configured to accept and hold a secondary device housing a syringe or vial including a fluid such as for example the pressure jacket and or a pressure jacket flange . In some embodiments a securing pin may provide an additional or alternative method of securing the syringe assembly to the injector .

In various embodiments the syringe mounting mechanism may be associated with and attached to a framework underlying the housing rather than the housing itself. An example of such a framework is provided in showing various perspectives of the framework. The framework may generally be constructed of a rigid material that provides mechanical support for the syringe mounting mechanism and or the actuation component . In some embodiments the framework may substantially improve the accuracy and reproducibility of injections by reducing or eliminating flexion that can occur when the syringe mounting mechanism and or the actuation component are attached to a housing composed of a more flexible material. In some embodiments the framework may be composed of steel aluminum another metal or metal alloy or a high tensile strength polymer composition. In some embodiments the framework may be designed to fit within the housing and provide attachment sites for mechanical components of the injector in addition to the syringe mounting mechanism and or actuation component .

In various embodiments the injector may include an injector mounting mechanism . In some embodiments the injector mounting mechanism may generally be configured to mount or hold the injector to the fluid delivery system . Embodiments are not limited to any particular injector mounting mechanism. For example in some embodiments the injector mounting mechanism may be a device configured to accept an arm or the like of the fluid delivery system where the injector mounting mechanism contains any means of securing the injector to the arm. In some embodiments the injector mounting mechanism may be configured to allow the injector to rotatably pivot about one or more axes to be positioned in any manner that may be desired by a user. In some embodiments the injector mounting mechanism may be associated with or attached to the framework . In other embodiments the injector mounting mechanism may be attached to the housing .

As depicted in the fluid delivery system may include one or more intracorporeal sensing systems generally designated according to various embodiments. The intracorporeal sensing systems may generally have a control module and a sensor . In some embodiments the control module may be configured to be an integrated component of the computing device . In other embodiments the control module may be a standalone component that is in operative communication with the computing device such as by wireless or hardwire communication. In some embodiments the control module may receive one or more signals from the sensor . The control module may optionally interpret the signals as pressure readings and may transmit the pressure readings to the computing device .

In various embodiments the control module may include one or more controls one or more communications ports and or one or more displays not shown . The one or more controls may be used to control the sensor such as for example turning the sensor on or off determining what feedback parameters the sensor senses directing the sensor to the targeted tissue and or the like. The one or more communications ports may allow the control module to communicate with the computing device as previously described herein. In some embodiments when the control module is connected to the computing device via the one or more communications ports the computing device may remotely control the control module thereby deactivating the one or more controls .

In various embodiments the sensor may be delivered to the targeted tissue for sensing the pressure at the targeted tissue before during and after delivery of fluid from the syringe assembly . The sensor may generally be configured to continuously monitor one or more feedback parameters at the location of the targeted tissue and quickly transmit signals to the control module indicating the sensed feedback parameters. Illustrative examples of feedback parameters may include but are not limited to pressure in a receiving vessel pressure in the targeted tissue temperature pH physiological status an image property a tissue stretch property a tissue conductivity a tissue ultrasound property a flow rate in the targeted tissue a fluid cell count a fluid particle count a density of a measurable tracer and the like. Accordingly in some embodiments the sensor may be constructed of components that allow for quick transmission of pressure signals. Specific examples of components that may allow for quick transmission of signals may include fiber optic components wireless radio components and or the like. The sensor is not limited by this disclosure in the components and or methods used for sensing. Thus any sensing devices now known or later developed may be used to sense as described herein. In some embodiments the sensor may be connected via a wired connection to the control module and may be distributed into the subject via a cannula or the like. In other embodiments the sensor may be connected via a wireless connection to the control module and thus may be distributed into the subject via injection oral ingestion intranasal ingestion and or the like. In these embodiments the wireless connection may be encrypted or otherwise protected by any method now known or later developed to ensure a secure connection between the sensor and the control module .

Referring back to in various embodiments the fluid delivery system may include delivery tubing for transferring the fluid from the syringe assembly to a delivery port and or the like not shown configured to allow injection of the fluid into a subject. In some embodiments the delivery port may be a port at or near a point of entry on the body of a subject. The delivery tubing may include a tubing extension of any length extending from a syringe connector such as for example the end plug to the delivery port. In some embodiments the tubing may include intervening tubing sections that act as extensions or perform specialized functions. The tubing extension may generally be of sufficient length to extend from the syringe to the subject to whom the fluid is to be delivered. Thus the tubing extension may have length of from about 5 in to about 50 in and in particular embodiments the tubing extension may have a length of from about 10 in to about 50 in about 15 in to about 45 in about 20 in to about 40 in or about 20 in to about 35 in. In certain embodiments the tubing extension may have a length of 20 in 36 in or in. Tubing extensions of such lengths may be configured to be accepted by a tubing management system while providing sufficient length to allow user maneuverability during the fluid delivery procedure.

The tubing extensions of various embodiments may include one or more connectors on each end and the connector may be any connector known in the art. For example a syringe connector may be mounted on an end of the tubing extension configured to be attached to the syringe and may be for example a luer or swabable luer type connector. The end of the tubing extension opposite the syringe connector may be configured to attach to a needle or other delivery device and may be a luer or swabable luer type connector. In other embodiments the end of the tubing extension opposite the syringe connector may be configured as a tubing connector such that the tubing connector may attach to intervening tubing sections. In various embodiments the tubing connector may be a luer connector. In some embodiments the tubing may include a communication transmission capability In various embodiments the communication transmission capability may be wired or wireless and may include any number of wires fiber optic cables wireless radios or other means to allow information to be passed from the targeted tissue.

In various embodiments the fluid delivery system may include any number of cords for powering the system using standard AC outlets. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may include an isolation transformer not shown . The isolation transformer may generally transfer electrical power from the AC power source to the various components of the fluid delivery system . In some embodiments the isolation transformer may isolate the various components from the electrical power source to prevent system damage from spikes in electrical activity. In some embodiments the isolation transformer may allow for non medical grade components to be used in conjunction with or in place of the various components described herein. Non medical grade components may contain leakage currents that are below an approved level but the leakage currents may be limited by the isolation transformer when used as described herein. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a battery configured to power the system controller in the event that the system is disconnected from an AC power source. In some embodiments the battery may be charged while the fluid delivery system is connected to an AC power source.

In various embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a system monitor device not shown . The system monitor device may act as an independent monitoring device that functions separately from the computing device . In some embodiments the system monitor device may be physically and or electrically independent from the computing device . In some embodiments the system monitor device may act to shut down and or disable the fluid delivery system in the event that an unsafe condition is sensed. Unsafe conditions are not limited by this disclosure but may include for example unsafe environmental conditions unsafe equipment installation power failure unsafe biological conditions within the subject and or the like.

As provided in the fluid delivery system of some embodiments may include a display . Such a display may be a color display or a black and white display. In some embodiments the display may be configured to allow a user to program or otherwise operate the fluid delivery system . In some embodiments the display may display real time data with regard to the operation of the fluid delivery system . For example in certain embodiments the display may have touch screen capabilities or be otherwise configured to allow a user to interact with the fluid delivery system and in particular the computing device by manipulating or touching the display. In other embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a keyboard mouse or other human input device configured to allow the user to program or otherwise operate the fluid delivery system. In still other embodiments the display may be included as part of a laptop smartphone or tablet computer that is electronically associated to the system by a hard wired or wireless network. The display may be fixed to the injector body and in other embodiments the display may be positioned away from the fluid delivery system and attached to the system by a hard wired or wireless network. Such displays may be configured to be tilted or swiveled to allow the display to be positioned by an operator.

In some embodiments the display may be configured to present or provide data and information to an operator in an intelligible form or format i.e. visually display this information and data in electronic form. In certain embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a printer which may be configured to physically display this information and data in print form. The printer of various embodiments may be of any type and includes off the shelf ink jet and laser printers. In particular embodiments the printer may be configured to print adhesive backed labels. In still other embodiments the fluid delivery system may include a speaker to audibly present this information and data in audible form. For example a speaker may be configured to produce an audible beep when an injection is complete or when the fluid has been used up or is nearly used up. In various embodiments such devices may be in communication with the computing device or other computing device through output interfaces.

Referring to in various embodiments the computing device may include one or more components for completing various operations as described herein for execution of code and or for creation and communication of data. In some embodiments the computing device and its various components described herein may be distributed throughout the fluid delivery system For example some components may reside in the display unit the injector head and or the base unit. The computing device may include one or more processing units typically referred to as a central processing unit or CPU that serve to execute computer based instructions received in an appropriate data form and format. Further the processing units may be in the form of multiple processors executing code in series in parallel or in any other manner for appropriate implementation of the computer based instructions. As used herein the computing device may be operably configured to execute appropriate software to perform and implement the processing steps of the methods and systems disclosed herein. The computing device may have a computer readable storage medium capable of storing computer readable program code or instructions that cause the processing units to execute configure or otherwise implement the methods processes and transformational data manipulations discussed herein. Still further the computing device may be in the form of a personal computer coupled to the fluid delivery system a processor formed integrally with the fluid delivery system a computer provided remotely from the fluid delivery system or any other type of computing device having the necessary processing hardware to appropriately process data to effectively implement the processes described herein. Illustrative examples may include but are not limited to a smartphone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computing device a phone tablet hybrid e.g. a phablet a laptop computer a netbook an ultrabook a desktop computing system and or the like.

The computing device may further include a system bus to facilitate appropriate data communication and processing information between the various components of the computing device. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In particular embodiments the system bus may facilitate data and information communication between the various components whether internal or external to the computing device through one or more interfaces.

In various embodiments the computing device may include system memory with computer storage media such as volatile and non volatile memory ROM and or RAM. A basic input output system BIOS with appropriate computer based routines may assist in transferring information between components within the computing device and can be stored in ROM. The RAM portion of the system memory may typically contain data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processing units such as for example an operating system one or more application programming interfaces application programs program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code.

The computing device may also include other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media products. For example the computing device may include a non removable memory that communicates with and controls a hard disk drive such as for example a non removable non volatile magnetic medium. The computing device may further include a removable non volatile memory interface that communicates with and controls a magnetic disk drive unit which may read from and write to a removable non volatile magnetic disk an optical disk drive unit which may read from and write to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM a DVD disc a Blu Ray disc and or the like a Universal Serial Bus USB port for use in connection with for example a removable memory card and or the like. Other removable or non removable volatile or non volatile computer storage media may be used including but not limited to magnetic tape cassettes DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. These removable or non removable volatile or non volatile magnetic media may be in communication with the processing unit and other components of the computing device via the system bus . The drives and their associated computer storage media may provide storage of operating systems computer readable instructions application programs data structures program modules program data and other instruction based computer readable code for the computing device whether duplicative or not of the information and data in the system memory .

In some embodiments the computing device may include one or more discrete computer readable media components or other media that can be accessed by the computing device such as for example volatile media non volatile media removable media non removable media and the like. In certain embodiments the computer readable media may be stored in a non transitory storage medium including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs Blu Ray discs other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In some embodiments the computer readable media may include communications media such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. In other embodiments the computer readable media may include any information delivery media wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic signals radio frequency signals optical signals infrared signals biometric signals bar code signals etc. . Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

In various embodiments the fluid delivery system may be configured to allow a user to enter commands information and data into the computing device using the touch screen of the GUI display via an operator input interface . In other embodiments an operator may enter commands information and data into the computing device using other attachable or operable input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a remote control device a microphone a trackball a joystick a touchpad a scanner a tablet computer and or the like via the operator input interface . Any arrangement that facilitates the input of data and information to the computing device from an outside source may be used including for example a hard wired connection or an access via a wireless network device such as Bluetooth a wireless internet connection a cellular connection and or the like. As discussed these and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through the operator input interface coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as for example a parallel port a game port a USB port and or the like.

In some embodiments the computing device may operate in a network environment through the use of a communications device which may be either integrated with the computing device or may be remotely accessed by the computing device. This communications device may be operable by and in communication with the other components of the computing device through a communications interface . Using such an arrangement the computing device may connect with or otherwise communicate with one or more remote computers such as a remote computer of an external information system which may include some or all of the components described above in connection with the computing device . Using appropriate communications devices such as for example a modem a network interface an adapter a telephone line a cable line a fiber optic line a T3 line a cellular telephone connection a Wi Fi network and or the like the computing device may operate within and communicate through a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN such as the network shown in but may also include other networks such as a virtual private network VPN an office network an enterprise network an intranet the Internet and or the like. It may be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the embodiments described herein may be configured to intelligently deliver a fluid that is sufficient for delivery to an average subject based upon models and calculations that may be programmed into the computing device as described herein. In some embodiments a user may input various parameters into the computing device when the fluid is loaded into the fluid delivery system . Illustrative examples of the various parameters may include but are not limited to information about the subject to which the fluid is delivered i.e. height weight medical conditions and the like identification of the tissue and or area to receive treatment type of treatment to be delivered to the subject measurements of the tissue and or area to receive treatment and or the like. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may be configured to determine the volume of fluid to be delivered as well as an amount and or concentration of gene therapy ingredients to be delivered which may be based on the parameters received from the user. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may be further configured to deliver a dose of fluid and or gene therapy ingredients having a desired activity level based on the parameters received from the user. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may be configured to deliver the fluid and or gene therapy ingredients at a specified pressure and may modify the pressure of delivery based upon feedback received from the intracorporeal sensing systems as described herein.

In various embodiments the computing device may be configured to direct the injector body to administer the fluid to a subject monitor the pressure and rate of administration of the fluid delivery at the injector body and receive feedback from the intracorporeal sensing systems . Based upon the feedback received the computing device may calculate any necessary changes to the pressure and rate of delivery and direct the injector body to adjust the pressure and rate of delivery accordingly. In particular embodiments the computing device may monitor the pressure and rate of administration of the fluid delivery at the end plug . Such embodiments may require one or more pressure sensors positioned at the end plug and or at other portions of the injector body that are in communication with the computing device such as through the communications interface or the input interface . In other embodiments the force on the plunger may be used to measure the pressure in the syringe. In yet other embodiments the torque and or the amperage of the one or more driving devices may be used to determine the pressure in the syringe.

In some embodiments the computing device may calculate any necessary changes to the pressure and rate of delivery using one or more algorithms that have been programmed based upon mathematical and or physical models of the target tissue for an average subject. One such physical model that has been developed for determining pressure and flow of fluid is a dynamic anthropomorphic cardiovascular phantom disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0226867 to Kalafut et al. the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Another physical model may be a liver model that may be used to mimic the pressure and flow response of fluid within a liver particularly with regards to an injection of fluid into the liver model. By injecting fluid into the liver model and then observing the results of the injection a researcher can devise an algorithm for the computing device that corresponds to expected pressure and flow response in an actual liver when fluid is injected into a subject as described herein. While the above models refer to cardiac and hepatic tissue those skilled in the art will recognize that any tissue may be used.

The fluid delivery system may further be configured for priming i.e. purging air from the tubing system and delivering a fluid to a subject as previously described herein. In addition the fluid delivery system may facilitate safe delivery of the fluid to multiple destinations such as for example dose delivery to multiple tissue areas and or multiple subjects.

The fluid delivery system may be further configured to provide feedback information to a user. For example in some embodiments the fluid delivery system may provide the user with information regarding the administration such as but not limited to the dosage of fluid delivered to the subject by mass mg volume ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery delivery time i.e. the time of day date and or fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may reference subject data to determine the amount of fluid administered to the particular subject over time and provide a warning to the operator if the amount of fluid and or the pressure of the fluid is too high or too low. In various embodiments the information may be provided to the user in real time.

Following administration or the completion of an administration protocol the fluid delivery system may provide a summary of the procedure including any relevant data. For example in various embodiments the system may provide the dosage of fluid delivered to the subject by mass mg volume ml the amount of another pharmaceutical composition delivered to the subject mg ml dosing time i.e. the time required for delivery delivery time i.e. the time of day date and fluid pressure in the delivery system during delivery and or the like. Data may be provided either in real time during performance of the protocol and or in summary form after completing. The data may be provided numerically and or graphically. In certain embodiments the display may provide both numeric and graphic data simultaneously.

The fluid delivery system may further provide subject identification and any critical data such as weight age disease being treated or tested for the procedure to be performed the location of the injection infusion site and the like and various combinations thereof. Such data may be received at the time of or prior to the procedure. In certain embodiments the operator may input a subject identification and the fluid delivery system may retrieve appropriate subject data from electronically archived records using a computer network or Internet connection. In still further embodiments the fluid delivery system may store subject information for more than one procedure.

Referring to in operation the syringe body may be loaded with any amount of a composition and the syringe body may be installed into the injector . The plunger may be specifically positioned so that the composition within the syringe body is a particular volume and pressure. The syringe actuation component may be advanced to push the plunger in a distal direction. The syringe actuation component may be controlled by the computing device to increase in speed decrease in speed stop or reverse the plunger in the proximal direction depending on a desired pressure and or flow of the contents of the syringe body . Adjustments to the movement of the syringe actuation component may be of any size i.e. a large change in speed or a small change in speed to ensure an exact volume and pressure is achieved. In some embodiments the syringe actuation component may first move the plunger in a distal direction to displace blood in or around the tissue and then increase the speed of the plunger movement to inject the fluid into the tissue.

User control of the fluid delivery system may be carried out by any suitable means. For example in some embodiments a user may trigger delivery of the fluid using the GUI interface by pressing a button on the screen. In other embodiments an external button may be used to trigger delivery. The external button may be configured to be activated for example by hand or using a foot pedal. In other embodiments the delivery of the fluid may be coordinated with a physiological parameter such as for example a heart phase a vessel pressure or a breath phase. In yet other embodiments delivery may be triggered by the computing device . In further embodiments the delivery may be triggered by a remote hand controller. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may include an interrupt button that is configured to allow an operator to pause or abort an injection procedure in the event of for example subject discomfort or an emergency while bypassing the GUI display which also can be configured to allow the user to pause or abort an injection procedure. An interrupt button may be connected to LEDs and or a printed circuit board to provide visual and or auditory alarms when the interrupt button has been activated.

Various embodiments are directed to methods for using the fluid delivery system and devices encompassed by the fluid delivery system. In some embodiments before starting the injection procedure the operator and or the computing device may determine the desired amount of fluid to be delivered to the subject based on the tissue to be treated biological characteristics of the subject and or the like. The methods of various embodiments may include the step of inputting such information before beginning the procedure.

In certain embodiments methods may further include generating a list of procedures to be performed over a time period. While the information provided in such a list may vary in some embodiments the list may include subject ID numbers type of procedure amount of fluid to be delivered to the identified subject the time necessary of the procedure and or a projected start time for the procedure and the like. In particular embodiments the information required for such a list may be received by the fluid delivery system before initiation and in other embodiments information for the list may be provided before the initiation of the procedure for each individual subject. In still other embodiments information for the list may be received from a remote location and subject information may be provided to the system via an Internet or other network connection.

Initialization may include any number of steps necessary to prepare the system for delivery of a fluid. In some embodiments initialization may include filling the system including all tubing and connectors with saline or another medical fluid to remove air from the fluid path such as for example flushing the system. In some embodiments the step of flushing the system may be carried out by manually filling various components with saline before connecting to the syringe. In other embodiments the various components and or various portions thereof may be prefilled with saline or another medical fluid before packaging.

In various embodiments the method presented above may further include the step of delivering the fluid to the subject. Delivering the fluid may include the steps of inserting a needle or other delivery device into the subject at an appropriate location such as a vein an artery or the targeted tissue. For mice the tail vein is commonly used. The user may secure the needle to the subject using for example medical tape and the needle and needle tube may be primed to introduce blood into the needle and needle tube. A primed extension tube or primed diffusion chamber may be connected to the needle and needle tube to provide a wet wet connection. The fluid may be delivered to the subject by activating the one or more driving devices causing the plunger to be advanced thereby delivering the appropriate volume of fluid to the subject.

In some embodiments another injection of the fluid may be delivered to the subject. In such embodiments the procedure may continue by repeating the operations provided above. Notably the initialization operations may be omitted during repeated delivery of fluid. In some embodiments the fluid delivery system may determine that the pressure and or flow response in the targeted tissue should be adjusted and may adjust the pressure and rate of transmission accordingly. In the event that no further injections are necessary the procedure may be terminated using a shutdown protocol which may include flushing the system with medical fluid.

In various embodiments the processor may direct the plunger to move in the syringe body. In particular embodiments the plunger may move in a distal direction to cause distribution of fluid to targeted tissue as described in greater detail herein. The processor may direct the plunger to move at a particular velocity to ensure proper movement to the targeted tissue and or a desired pressure is maintained in the fluid. As previously described herein the plunger and the syringe body may be in the form of a pump where the processor directs the pump to distribute the fluid to the targeted tissue. In some embodiments the processor may direct the plunger by activating one or more driving devices that cause the actuation component to apply a force to the pump or plunger.

As the fluid is directed to the targeted tissue the processor may receive one or more signals from an intracorporeal sensing systems that has one or more sensor at or near the targeted tissue that correspond to one or more sensed feedback parameters sensed by the sensors of the intracorporeal sensing system. In some embodiments the sensors may be located at or near the targeted tissue and may be configured to sense the targeted tissue in real time. The processor may receive the signals immediately prior to the sensing as described herein. In addition to receiving one or more signals the processor may receive one or more inputs. The inputs may be received from a user program code and or the like and may generally contain information regarding acceptable ranges for the sensed tissue which is based upon the type of tissue being sensed and certain characteristics of the subject as described herein.

The computing device may determine whether the one or more sensed feedback parameters are within the acceptable ranges and may optionally display the sensed feedback and the acceptable range on a display. If the sensed feedback parameters are determined to be within the acceptable range the process may determine whether any additional feedback is sensed by the sensors. If additional feedback is sensed the processes may repeat. If no additional feedback is sensed the processes may end.

If the computing device determines that the feedback parameters are not within the acceptable range it may determine an adjusted velocity necessary to bring the feedback parameters within the acceptable range. The computing device may determine the adjusted velocity via any number of inputs via a preprogrammed algorithm and or the like as previously described herein. The computing device may adjust the plunger velocity by sending a signal to the plunger and or the one or more driving devices to adjust the velocity accordingly. As the velocity is changed the computing device may actively receive additional signals and the processes described herein may repeat until the feedback parameters are within the acceptable range. The processes described herein may be continuous and active with the processor continuously receiving signals and adjusting velocity until the fluid delivery process is complete.

The injector described in this Example is designed to allow more sophisticated and flexible types of control over injection procedures than is available with current injectors. As a result the injector may aid in the discovery of new medical procedures and enable the consistent performance delivery of an optimal procedure to each patient.

Injection control systems can be arrayed in a hierarchy from simplest to most complex. The following level designations are for reference only. Simplest is a gravity infusion with no control system where the fluid is allowed to freely run into the patient. Second is a manual infusion such as by using for example a handheld or hand operated syringe. Some control is possible but it is not consistent and cannot be long term. A next level is a fixed pressure with a restriction such as for example a gravity driven flow with a restriction. The fixed pressure with a restriction is often user adjustable and the flow rate is estimated by controlling a drop rate. Next is an electromechanical system preferably with a computer controlled user interface and operation. A simple stepper motor driven syringe pump is one example. There is no feedback loop and there can be some safety checks. More sophisticated systems are able to deliver higher levels of control using feedback loops within the system to servo control the delivery to allow adjustment to external variations in aspects such as fluid path restrictions or back pressure build up. Most current power injectors are capable of this type of operation.

Providing a measurement in the physiological system allows feedback to control a physiologically relevant parameter that can help ensure that delivery is sufficient for the desired goal but is not excessive so as to cause damage or other phenomena. Potential feedback parameters include for example pressure in the receiving vessel pressure in tissue temperature in a vessel temperature in tissue flow in a vessel a property of an image such as density of a voxel tissue stretch tissue conductivity tissue ultrasound properties flow rate in the targeted tissue a fluid cell count a fluid particle count the density of a measurable tracer and the like. As is known in the medical arts the property being measured by an imager depends upon the type of the imager such as for example X ray attenuation in CT imaging and proton density T or T in MR imaging.

A second dimension or aspect to control is the one or more variables that are being controlled. Normal injections control flow rate until a total volume is delivered or a specified time period is met. A more sophisticated control also allows setting the acceleration or ramp by the user or the system for example to reduce catheter whip in angiography . If the injector can deliver multiple fluids in one injection the composition or ratio is a variable that can be controlled to provide a better result for the patient. It is possible to control pressure as the primary parameter. An angioplasty balloon controller would have this function where the fluid is delivered to inflate the balloon but the amount or volume of fluid is not the primary parameter of importance. The parameters would be pressure and time preferably with controlled ramp up and ramp down in pressure. The parameter being controlled or optimized can be received from a sensor or from an imager. In the current system pressure feedback from the liver vein fits this category.

Controlling one parameter with a limit to or on a second parameter provides yet another level of control. Some current injectors control flow rate with a maximum pressure limit that can be set by the user. In an angioplasty controlling pressure with a maximum volume to be delivered would result in an acceptable algorithm to resolve a leaking balloon issue. For example in CT injections delivering a flow rate of 10 ml second with a pressure limit of 100 psi means that the fluid delivery system will deliver the fluid at 10 ml second independent of the pressure needed until it requires 100 psi or more. Then the fluid delivery system either limits the pressure at 100 psi and delivers less flow until the full volume selected is delivered or may optionally halt the delivery because the pressure limit has been reached. The controller of this system provides further capability around limiting behavior in that the user may select more than one parameter to be used as a limit such as for example programming an injection to achieve a certain intravascular pressure for a certain duration can have limits to both flow rate and volume delivered in that phase or overall. Another example is delivering a flow rate for a total volume with a limit on pressure in the vessel pressure in the system or syringe and time duration. Limits at the discretion of the user are applied to each phase of the injection or procedure or to cumulative parameters such as time or volume for multiple phases. The control system of an embodiment provides a number of options to the user in regards to the actions that are taken when a limit is reached. As mentioned above the simplest is to halt the injection when the a limit is reached. A second is to only alert the user that a limit has been reached and not change behavior in any way unless a capability of the system has been reached. A third is to hold the limit parameters at their limits and reduce or extend other parameters to allow the procedure to continue to completion or until another limit is reached with or without alerting the user real time. A fourth option is to alert the user and require some action within a certain timeframe such as for example stopping unless the user presses a continue button. The type of interaction may depend upon the type of user control. The real time information or feedback to the operator includes alerting the user when limits are being approached so that limiting behavior is averted.

The next level of control allows different parameters to be controlled during different phases or times during the injection or procedure with other parameters being in the limit role. When flow rate or pressure is the controlled parameter that the system seeks to maintain within the operator defined range one or more controlled parameters in each phase are used. The system used one or more action parameters to adjust and keep the controlled parameters within the range. For example the pump would increase flow rate if the intravascular pressure is lower than the target range. Increased flow rate is achieved by increasing the motor current and or the voltage to the pump which are commonly parameters not visible to the user. Thus flow rate motor voltage and motor current are action parameters. Furthermore one or more duration parameters are used to determine the duration or completion of the phase or injection. In addition one or more limiting parameters are set to help assure safe or proper operation of the system. There are also one or more monitor or measured parameters which the system assesses or measures and reports to the user use in the control algorithm or process for example to anticipate conditions or use in some other way. The user may not be aware of the system s action or measured parameters. Thus with the injector described herein a volume of gene therapy fluid the duration parameter is first delivered at a low or moderate flow rate the controlled parameter with a relatively low in vein pressure limit a limiting parameter to ensure that the liver vessels are filled with the gene therapy fluid and not blood or contrast and optionally with a set syringe pressure limit a second limiting parameter to ensure safe operation. The second phase of the procedure ramps up the flow rate quickly the controlled parameter to build up pressure in the vein a duration parameter and drive the fluid into the tissue with a venous pressure limit a limiting parameter to prevent damage. The transition to the third phase occurs when a certain venous pressure is achieved duration parameter for the second phase . The venous pressure controlled parameter is held for a time duration parameter to maintain the stretch and enable the fluid to diffuse into the extravascular space with a flow rate limit limit parameter in case there is too much leakage and optionally with a flow rate limit limit parameter as well. The final phase is a venous pressure ramp controlled parameter down over a time duration parameter to consistently and controllably return the system to normal pressure. In this situation the ability to select and vary the parameter that is being controlled the duration parameter s and the parameter s that are serving as the limit s improves the ability to optimize and customize the injection. The transition between the second and third phase was based on achieving a pressure and not a total volume delivered time or a flow rate achieved. This is another example of mixed controls where the end of one phase and the beginning of another is determined by the value of an alternate control parameter.

To achieve the next level of adjustment or control algorithm sophistication duration parameters or limit parameters that are dependent upon or recognize the patient s physiological condition or response to the procedure are employed. discloses such a situation. In the second phase described above where the flow rate and pressure in the vein rapidly increases a sudden drop in pressure may result where the liver cracks or the gateway to an alternative fluid path opens such as to the arterial flow. In this case the system can automatically enter a next phase that maintains that pressure for a fixed time. Alternatively in that next phase the pressure could be slowly decreased or increased as shown in . The particular action to be performed will be a function of the specific physiology and procedure for which the system is being used.

A Medrad Mark V ProVis Injection System Bayer HealthCare Indianola Pa. was used to inject fluid into a liver phantom model. The liver phantom model was constructed to mimic a typical dog liver under various biological conditions. The device constructed as a controlled and programmable pressurized chamber is used to simulate the pressure and flow characteristics of the targeted organ or region of interest. An injection protocol is programmed into the injection system then the fluid media is injected into the phantom. As the programmed injection is delivered to the phantom the results are captured by the installed phantom sensors such as but not limited to pressure sensors fluid flow sensors and temperature sensors. The data is then saved in memory and charted for the user to read evaluate and manipulate. The user can then use the recorded results to modify or improve the programmed injection as necessary or desirable.

Pressure of the fluid in the phantom model was introduced using a Mentor Pressure Simulator Merit Medical South Jordan Utah and the pressure of the phantom model was sensed using a PCU 2000 Pressure Control Unit Millar Instruments Inc. Houston Tex. . Fluid was injected into the phantom liver at a rate of 0 40 ml second for 6 seconds to deliver 120 ml of fluid and then was injected at a rate of 40 ml second for 2 second to deliver 80 ml of fluid through an 8 French catheter. A similar process was carried out in a live animal model. A standard image guided insertion procedure employed in the clinic was used for placing a balloon catheter into the right lateral hepatic vein or renal vein to target the liver or kidney respectively. The total injection volume was 800 ml delivered in 20 seconds 40 ml s for the liver and 55 ml in 11.7 seconds 4.7 ml s for the kidney.

Results of the test are displayed in . The results show that the waveforms are generally the same and can be tuned to be identical by changing parameters of the liver phantom.

Although various embodiments have been described in detail for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the disclosure is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements. For example it is to be understood that this disclosure contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.

