---

title: Systems and methods for providing a real estate and rental marketplace
abstract: An environment provided by a financial entity in which buyers and sellers may be brought together to initiate and complete a transaction for the purchase of a property for sale or rental. The environment enables sellers to list items together with relevant information that buyers may need to understand the item. Buyers may apply for financing, insurance or other related services to receive approval to purchase properties. A mechanism by which the seller and buyer may communicate enables a negotiation process, scheduling and other processes associated with the sale or rental. After an agreement is reached between the buyer and seller, components associated with the environment, such property and casualty and banking may complete the necessary paperwork, etc. to close the deal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620827&OS=08620827&RS=08620827
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08620827
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130117
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 169 437 filed on Jun. 27 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 206 814 filed on Sep. 9 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 991 703 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. This application is also related by subject matter to the inventions disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications now abandoned the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 206 821 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 206 826 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 206 829 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 206 835 each filed on Sep. 9 2008 and entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Real Estate and Rental Marketplace. 

Facilitating a real estate transaction requires the involvement of multiple businesses e.g. banking insurance title attorneys inspection companies appraisers etc. with the buyers and sellers required to coordinate all of these disparate parties in order to complete the transaction. In addition individuals interested in purchasing or renting real estate often desire to identify available properties that fall within the bounds of their selected search parameters e.g. price range square footage number of bedrooms etc. .

However these individuals often do not know how much home they can afford nor do they understand the other expenses associated with homeownership as searches for properties for sale or rent typically performed on a website provided by a real estate agent or listing service. The agents or listing services do not understand the financial positions of the buyers as the searches are made thus the search results often include properties that the buyer cannot afford.

The above problems are amplified for those buyers and sellers that wish to proceed without a realtor. Not only are there difficulties in scheduling appointments for buyers to visit seller s homes there are difficulties in obtaining contracts for agreement of sale appraisals and other necessary steps in order for buyer to purchase a home for sale.

An environment provided by a financial entity in which buyers and sellers may be brought together to initiate and complete a transaction for the purchase of a property for sale. The environment enables sellers to list properties together with relevant information that buyers may need to understand the properties. Buyers may apply for financing insurance or other related services to receive approval to purchase properties. A mechanism by which the seller and buyer can communicate enables a negotiation process scheduling and other processes associated with the sale to take place. After an agreement is reached between the buyer and seller components associated with the environment such property and casualty and banking may complete the necessary paperwork etc. to close the deal.

In some implementations there is provided a method for providing a real estate marketplace. The method may include receiving financial information about a buyer to pre qualify the buyer for a mortgage and homeowner s insurance coverage and receiving buyer preference search criteria to query an information store containing information regarding homes for sale in a selected location. The results may be provided to the buyer and an indication of a selected home received from the buyer. A transaction portal may be provided wherein the buyer and a seller of the selected home negotiate a sale of the selected home.

In some implementations a system for providing a real estate marketplace is provided. The system may include a subsystem for receiving financial information about a buyer to pre qualify the buyer for a mortgage and homeowner s insurance coverage. A subsystem may be provided to receive buyer preference search criteria to query an information store containing information regarding homes for sale in a selected location. Another subsystem may provide the results may be provided to the buyer and receive an indication of a selected home received from the buyer. A transaction portal may be provided wherein the buyer and a seller of the selected home negotiate a sale of the selected home

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for compiling information regarding items for sale such as homes and for creating an environment in which buyers and sellers may be brought together to initiate and complete a transaction for the purchase rental of a property. The environment enables sellers to list properties together with relevant information that buyers may need to understand the property. Buyers may apply for financing insurance or other related services to receive approval to purchase properties. After an agreement is reached between the buyer and seller entities associated with the environment may complete the necessary paperwork etc. to close the deal.

Within the environment may be a buyer and associated device such as a personal computer that may be used to provide information to the financial entity or a buyer preference database . The financial entity may provide insurance and or financing to buyers of properties within the environment . The financial entity may have a homeowners quote engine and a bank quote and underwriting engine . The homeowners quote engine may receive information such as the buyer s claims history and credit rating as well as preliminary information regarding maintenance construction and location of a home to be purchased. From this information the homeowners quote engine may pre qualify a buyer with homeowners insurance. The pre qualification represents a maximum amount for which the buyer may be insured.

The bank quote and underwriting engine may receive information from the buyer regarding the buyer s gross income an amount of cash available for a down payment anticipated settlement costs and cash reserves required by the lender of outstanding debts the buyer s credit history a type of mortgage selected and current interest rates. The bank quote and underwriting engine may take into account an expense to income ratio by calculating the buyer s projected monthly housing expense which consists of the principal and interest payment on a new home loan property taxes and hazard insurance. From this information the bank quote and underwriting engine may pre qualify the buyer for a mortgage loan product s . The pre qualification represents a maximum loan amount for which the buyer is eligible.

The information provided by the buyer to the financial entity as part of a process of qualifying for homeowners insurance and a mortgage may be compiled into a consolidated application . The consolidated application may be stored in a customer database associated with the financial entity . The customer database may include information about the seller or the buyer .

The buyer may also choose to fill out a financial advice center questionnaire provided by the financial entity that aids the buyer in determining if home ownership is the right option how much property he she can afford or if renting is a better option given the buyer s finances.

The preference database may include user preferences that are associated with the buyer . The preference database may include buyer preferences such as a desired number of bedrooms a desired number of bathrooms a desired price range and subjective characteristics about a desired location e.g. bike friendly wide selection of restaurants high percentage of properties with children etc. . If the buyer is a realtor or a business service the preference database may be associated with a client of the buyer . The buyer may use the device to input preferred criteria and or preferences regarding properties or areas of interest into the preference database .

The listing database may include listings and details about items such as property for sale or rent in a particular location. For example the listing database may be a listing service such as those that provide basic real estate information specific to realty that is for sale or rent. These details may be data about the property such as the number of bedrooms price range or if there is a pool for example. The listing database may also compile information specific to the property such as realty sale history zoning parameters or an estimated property value for example.

The listing database may compile information about the zip code which may include basic real estate details about properties for sale or not within that zip code. The listing database may also include other objective details associated to the recommended location such as neighborhood demographics grocery store locations realty information any available realty locations neighborhood demographics realty sale history etc.

The listing database may also contain subjective or social networking information about properties. For example prospective buyers of real estate in an area may be interested in knowing a resident s opinion and assessment of location relevant attributes such as how busy they think traffic is in the area or if a neighbor has an incessantly barking dog. Prospective renters may want opinions from current or previous tenants such as their opinion about whether an apartment building is kid friendly or if their property owner has a tendency to delay fixing reported problems.

The environment may include a comparison module that may match the properties contained in the listing database with information in the buyer preference data or near real time queries to determine a recommended location . The recommended location may be defined narrowly such as a single property location or the location may be defined broadly and encompass for example a neighborhood a region an apartment complex etc. The recommended location may be viewed on a website provided by the financial entity . The buyer may be provided listings that show an exact monthly mortgage and insurance costs for the property they are viewing as this information may be combined from the listing database and the customer database . In some implementations if the buyer has created a financial profile stored in the customer database he she can restrict property listings to only those that fit his her financial goals.

A transaction portal provides an environment in which a buyer and seller may virtually meet to negotiate the sale and purchase or rental of the property. The buyer may arrange to see a property through a communication preference designated by the seller . If the buyer likes the property the buyer and seller may agree to a price in writing using the transaction portal .

In some implementations the seller and buyer may log into a website provided by the financial entity and notify the entity of the final conditions and their preferred closing date. The financial entity may arrange for one or more of the following that typically occur when purchasing a home an inspection if required and an appraisal if not already completed scheduling the closing securing a closing attorney securing title insurance securing a termite bond etc. The financial entity may then issue the homeowner policy effective on the closing date. As such the buyer and seller need only to show up at the closing to sign the papers to complete the transaction.

Each of the databases and either separately or combined may be provided as a database management system an object oriented database management system a relational database management system e.g. Oracle Access etc. a file system or another conventional database package. Further the databases can be accessed via a Structure Query Language SQL or other tools known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The network may be any network that facilitates wireless communications may also include wired communication capabilities and may communicate with other wired and wireless networks. Any and all such networks are contemplated as within the present disclosure. Examples of such networks include telephony radio networks such as global system for mobile communication GSM networks and code division multiple access CDMA networks wireless computer networks such as Wi Fi and IEEE 802.11 networks and wired networks such as local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs intranets and the Internet. The network represents any possible combination of such networks including a wireless network that may connect to the Internet and communicate with other devices that are connected directly or indirectly to the Internet.

As noted above facilitating a real estate transaction requires the involvement of multiple businesses e.g. banking insurance title attorneys inspection companies appraisers etc. with the buyers and sellers required to coordinate all of these disparate parties in order to complete the transaction particularly if the parties wish to proceed without a realtor. The financial entity provides a solution to this problem by integrating separate financial insurance components. A property and casualty component may handle homeowners insurance a real estate listing service may provide listings and search capabilities of the listings and a banking component may set up the mortgage and coordinate the inspection appraisal title insurance and closing. Thus a collaboration of the components in the environment may result in the aggregation of the entire home buying and selling transaction into one Internet site and or one company e.g. entity .

Further the environment may be used to provide listings or rental properties to prospective renters or other items such as motorcycles automobiles boats airplanes etc.

At the listing information may be augmented with public record information. For example tax records may be queried for additional information about the property. This information may include annual property taxes lot size official square footage assessed value etc. This information may be used to verify information provided by the seller or to provide additional information that the seller has not or is unable to provide at .

At the listing information may be augmented with user data. The user data may be information stored in the user database that the financial entity may have compiled through its relationship with the seller . This information may include details such as the construction of the home e.g. wood brick stone etc. additional specialty items not specified by the seller e.g. a stained glass window in the entryway etc. This information may be retrieved in accordance with a seller indication allowing the retrieval of information from the user database in order to respect the privacy of the seller.

At the final listing is compiled. The information obtained in may be compiled into a final listing that is stored in the listing database and made available to prospective buyers . The process of may occur at any time to place the seller s property for sale in the real estate and rental marketplace.

At ownership criteria may be determined. For example from the information provided the financial entity may determine how much house the buyer can afford based on information in the consolidated application . In other words the maximum monthly mortgage insurance and other expenses associated with homeownership that the buyer can safely afford. At the buyer may be pre qualified for a mortgage loan. Using the information provided the financial entity may determine a maximum loan amount for which the buyer may be qualified.

At the buyer may be pre qualified for homeowners insurance. Based an amount determined at and or the financial entity may determine if the buyer can be prequalified for insurance. At it is determined if the prospective buyer desires to rent or buy. For example if the prospective buyer qualifies for a loan and homeowners insurance at and the buyer may provide one or more preferences at for homes of interest.

For example the buyer may specify a selling dollar amount a number of bedrooms a number of bathrooms or other features of interest in a property that the buyer would like to purchase. In some implementations the buyer preferences may be used as a query run against the listing database . In some implementations the buyer preferences may be stored in the buyer preference database such that the preferences may be automatically and or periodically run against listings maintained in the listing database .

At the buyer preferences are compared to the listings. For example the preferences received and or stored at may be run against the listings in the listing database to determine if there are any properties for sale that match or approximately match within a predetermined tolerance the buyer preferences.

At it is determined if any matches results from the comparison performed at . If no matches result then the buyer may revise his her preferences at in the comparison may be rerun at and . Optionally the buyer may choose to end the process.

If at there are properties for sale that match the buyer preferences then at the buyer is provided an opportunity to review the matches. The matches may be presented in a user interface and listed from e.g. highest price to lowest price by number of bedrooms a number of bathrooms by total square footage etc. The buyer may be provided an opportunity to sort the list of matches in a way that suits the buyer s preferences.

If at it is determined if the buyer decides not to enter into a transaction to purchase a property from the seller the process ends at . However if at it is determined that the buyer wants to enter into a transaction to purchase a selected property from a seller then at a transaction portal may be provided to the buyer. The transaction portal provides a user interface in which the buyer may receive from e.g. the financial entity an appropriate contract for an agreement of sale in the geographic jurisdiction in which the properties for sale. The contract may be a template that enables the buyer to specify terms and conditions e.g. an offer price contingencies etc. .

In some implementations the transaction portal may provide a way to communicate the offer to the seller of a property through e.g. a secure tradition mechanism. A seller may receive the offer through the transaction portal and either accept the offer or submit a counteroffer for consideration by the buyer. This process may continue until the buyer and seller reach agreement or decide that no agreement is reachable where the process ends.

In some implementations the transaction portal may be used to arrange meeting times where the buyer may visit the seller s property in person. The transaction portal may also be used to arrange closing times inspection visits appraisals etc. to enable all the processes that maybe necessary to complete the purchase of a property.

If the buyer and seller reach an agreement then at the financial entity may write a homeowner s policy for the buyer. At the financial entity may finalize the mortgage. The financial entity may also arrange for any necessary components for the closing. At the buyer and seller close the sale of the property and the process ends at .

Referring again to if the buyer decides to rent then at rental options are presented to the buyer now a prospective renter . The renter may provide one or more preferences at for properties that he she would like to rent. For example the renter may specify a monthly rental amount a number of bedrooms a number of bathrooms or other features of interest. In some implementations the renter preferences may be used as a query run against rental properties in the listing database . In some implementations the renter preferences may be stored in the buyer preference database such that the preferences may be automatically and or periodically run against rental property listings maintained in the listing database .

At the renter preferences are compared to the rental property listings. For example the preferences received and or stored may be run against the rental property listings in the listing database to determine if there are any properties for rent that match or approximately match within a predetermined tolerance the renter s preferences.

At it is determined if any matches results from the comparison performed at . If no match is result then the renter may revise his her preferences at and the comparison may be rerun at and . Optionally the renter may choose to end the process.

If at there are properties for rent that match the renter s preferences then at the renter is provided an opportunity to review the matches. The matches may be presented in a user interface listing properties from e.g. highest rental price to lowest rental price by number of bedrooms a number of bathrooms etc. The renter may be provided an opportunity to sort the list of matches in a way that suits the renter s preferences.

The renter may enter into a rental agreement at or end the process after reviewing the matches. The rental agreement may be entered into using the transaction portal as noted above which would provide a user interface in which the renter may sign and return a rental agreement to the owner of the property for rent. The financial entity may provide for renter s insurance and certify a renter s policy as part of the negotiations rental agreement.

Thus the environment is also scalable such that the same functionality that is used to list and view properties for sale may be used to list and view rental properties.

One of ordinary skill in the art would now recognize that the flow of the operation diagrams in may occur in a different order than shown in the FIGS. For example may occur after the buyer preferences are received. Other permutations are within the scope of the appended claims.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

