---

title: Acoustic sensor
abstract: A method of designing and manufacturing an acoustic sensor having a high degree of directivity is disclosed. The sensor includes a rotatable plate that is attached to a substrate with mounts. In one aspect the mounts are freely rotatable and the torque on the plate is measured using detectors disposed on springs that provide a resistance to rotation of the plate. In another aspect the plate is mounted to the substrate with mounts that torsionally deform during rotation of the plate. These detectors measure the torque on the plate according to the torsional deformation of the mounts. Methods of improving the signal to noise ratio of acoustic sensors having multiple detectors are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372111&OS=09372111&RS=09372111
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09372111
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130812
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 691 613 filed Aug. 21 2012 titled ACOUSTIC SENSOR and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 693 111 filed Aug. 24 2012 titled ACOUSTIC SENSOR which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. IIP1026893 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Sound is transmitted by pressure oscillations in air. A microphone is a pressure sensor designed to sense very small pressure oscillations across the audio frequency range 20 Hz 20 kHz . Typically a compliant diaphragm is designed to deflect in proportion to sound pressure. The deflection is in turn measured in a number of ways capacitively optically or piezoelectrically to ultimately produce an output voltage in proportion to the sound pressure. Piezoelectric materials produce a voltage when strained. When piezoelectric materials are patterned on a pressure sensitive diaphragm the deflection of the diaphragm due to sound pressure strains the diaphragm and a voltage is produced by the piezoelectric material. This is one example of how sound is transduced into an electrical signal.

Since their entry into the market electrostatic microelectro mechanical systems MEMS microphones have become one of the highest growth areas for MEMS growing from less than 300 million units shipped in 2007 to over 1 billion units shipped in. Apple s iPhone 4 product alone contains three electrostatic MEMS microphones including two in the body of the phone and a third in the mobile headset.

Directional microphones with a high degree of directivity sense sound with high sensitivity in preferred directions while being relatively insensitive to sound in other directions. Directional microphones may be used in hearing aids for example to avoid the common cock tail party problem. Directivity enables a hearing aid wearer to listen to a speaker of interest with high sensitivity while rejecting ambient background noise that would otherwise degrade speech intelligibility i.e. directional microphones improve signal to noise ratio. Clearly directional microphones have potential to greatly improve speech intelligibility and signal clarity for a wide suite of consumer electronic devices given the pervasive use of audio in our daily lives e.g. smartphones laptop computers Bluetooth earpieces hearing aid devices etc. .

Rotational microphones biologically inspired by a special type of parasitoid fly Ormia ochracea have been demonstrated by Miles et al. at SUNY Binghamton and Degertekin et al. at Georgia Tech R. N. Miles Q. Su W. Cui M. Shetye F. L. Degertekin B. Bicen C. Garcia S. Jones and N. Hall A low noise differential microphone inspired by the ears of the parasitoid fly Ormia ochracea J Acoust Soc Am vol. 125 pp. 2013 26 April 2009 and B. Bicen S. Jolly K. Jeelani C. Garcia N. Hall F. L. Degertekin Q. Su W. Cui and R. Miles Integrated optical displacement detection and electrostatic actuation for directional optical microphones with micromachined biomimetic diaphragms IEEE Sensors Journal pp. 1933 1941 2009 . In addition to offering a very compact pressure gradient microphone with experimentally verified figure 8 directivity laboratory prototypes demonstrated a simultaneous 10 dB lower noise floor and factor of 10 times reduction in size compared to state of the art low noise miniature microphones used in hearing aids. Demonstrations to date however have relied on complex optical readout approaches which face challenging packaging and manufacturing hurdles. Integration of multiple sensors on a single die to realize co located pressure gradient measurements will also prove challenging due to alignment tolerances between optical and mechanical components. Designing for low power consumption is yet another challenge with optical readout methodologies.

In a first aspect an acoustic sensor employing a rotatable plate is disclosed. The rotatable plate is mounted to a substrate with freely rotatable mounts that provide near zero rotational stiffness to the plate. The plate is held in place by springs that employ detectors to measure the torque applied to the plate. In one embodiment the detectors are piezoelectric sensors.

In another aspect a plate is mounted to a substrate with mounts that torsionally deform during rotation of the plate. Detectors that employ shear mode piezoelectric sensing are disposed on the mounts.

In another aspect sensors employing multiple axes of rotation and springs of varied locations are disclosed. Sensors with multiple axes of rotation may demonstrate a high signal to noise ratio for sound coming from more than one coordinate location.

In another aspect a plurality of detectors are employed in an acoustic sensor and a method of separating and comparing each of the detector outputs is used to improve the performance of the acoustic sensor. In some embodiments harmonics of the plate can be removed improving the signal to noise ratio of the acoustic sensor.

In the following description various embodiments are described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention can be practiced without the specific details described herein. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

The acoustic sensor disclosed herein is suitable for applications that may benefit from microphones having a high degree of directivity. The acoustic sensor includes a plate that is mounted to a substrate. When subjected to sound waves the rotation of the plate indicates a direction of the source of the sound. Embodiments of the invention are described in detail below.

In some embodiments one or more springs are attached to one or more distal ends of the plate . The springs may be configured to resist rotation of the plate . In some embodiments the springs may be beams wherein the beams are oriented substantially perpendicular to the first and second distal ends of the plate . In some embodiments the springs may resemble L shaped beams wherein a first portion of the beam is oriented perpendicular to first and second distal ends of the plate and a second portion of the beam is oriented parallel to first and second distal ends. Other configurations of the springs are within the scope of this disclosure and several other example configurations are disclosed herein.

The sensor is configured to detect a torque of the plate about the axis in response to received acoustic energy and to indicate a direction of a source of the acoustic energy relative to the sensor. The sensor is equipped with one or more detectors that detect the torque of the plate . In one embodiment the detectors are disposed on at least a portion of the springs . More specifically the detectors may sense torque of the plate by indicating a deflection of the springs . In some embodiments the detectors may employ piezoelectric sensors to measure pressure strain or force in the springs . In other embodiments the detectors may employ strain sensors such as strain gauges to measure the strain or deflection of the springs . Other sensors are within the scope of this disclosure. In one embodiment the rotational vibration of the structure is read using thin piezoelectric films near the base of each spring which convert strain energy into electric potential. The applied torque may be in direct proportion to the instantaneous spatial derivative of pressure so this type of the sensor may also be called a pressure gradient sensor. The sensor may include piezoelectric sensing regions which in some embodiments consist of deposited lead zirconate titanate PZT sandwiched between platinum Pt electrodes. In many embodiments detectors may have one or more electrical connections to facilitate their operation and connectivity with an external electrical system. Although four springs and four detectors are illustrated here other configurations may include more or less springs and or detectors. Additionally in some embodiments the number of detectors does not equal the number of springs.

The sensor may be configured to have a high degree of directivity. That is sensor may exhibit a high signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more particular directions and may exhibit a much lower signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more different directions. Directivity of an acoustic sensor may be characterized by a polar plot which is a plot of the sensitivity of the structure vs. direction of incoming sound. Some embodiments of are predicted to have a figure 8 directivity as is known in the art. More specifically some embodiments as illustrated in may demonstrate a high signal to noise ratio when sound waves are oriented parallel to the X axis. In this scenario as illustrated in the sound waves cause a pressure imbalance across the plate and cause the plate to rotate about the axis the Y axis causing a first distal end deflection . For example a sound wave may impart a downward pressure on second distal end that exceeds the downward pressure imparted in the first distal end causing the plate to rotate in a counter clock wise direction about axis Y axis . The rotation of the plate causes the springs to deflect and causes the detectors to indicate the torque on the plate. Conversely if sound approaches the sensor aligned with the Y axis the sound waves impinge both distal ends of the plate simultaneously so the plate does not rotate about the axis . Thus the springs do not deflect and the detectors do not indicate a torque on the plate . Similarly if sound waves approach the sensor aligned with the Z axis the sound waves impinge on both distal ends of the plate simultaneously so the plate does not rotate about the axis . If sound waves approach sensor from a direction out of near perfect alignment with the X Y or Z axes a vector decomposition can be employed and only the component of the sound impinging sensor oriented with the X axis will have a high signal to noise ratio. Thus the sensor may exhibit a high degree of directivity.

The present invention has a wide variety of application examples some of which are described herein. For instance the acoustic sensors may be used within consumer audio products for directional sensing under a variety of application modalities. In some embodiments directional microphones with fixed directivity patterns can focus on a speaker speaking into a smartphone while rejecting ambient noise from a street car or buss passing etc. . As a drop in replacement to omnidirectional MEMS microphones directional microphones offer system integrators an immediate advantage. Multiple directional microphones may be combined with digital signal processing thereby enabling advance modalities some of which are described herein. Smartphones and other consumer communication devices using embodiments of the acoustic sensors described herein will have the ability to focus on a speaker of interest and track the speaker when moving about a room. Further the embodiments of the acoustic sensors may be used in devices within noisy areas with high background noise e.g. lunch at a noisy restaurant for use within a speaker phone application which can identify which person in a crowd or conference e.g. at a table is speaking In some embodiments audio sensing resources may focus on an individual in a conference while rejecting all other ambient noise. In some embodiments the acoustic sensors provided herein may provide a directional audio differentiating feature for system integrators e.g. consumer audio .

In some embodiments such as illustrated in more than one detector may be used. When more than one detector is employed the selective addition or subtraction of detector output can increase or decrease the sensitivity of certain modes of the sensor as desired. Thus in some embodiments each detector may be read individually and the readings may be compared and used to achieve myriad features. In one embodiment subtraction of detector readings is equivalent to measuring the difference signal between detectors and can be achieved using a differential amplifier or similar means. In other embodiments the addition of detector signals can be achieved by physically connecting the ports in series or parallel or by connecting each port to the input of a summing amplifier. In other embodiments a digital processor may be employed to analyze the differences between individual detector readings to extract additional information from sensor .

In some embodiments the difference between the detectors may be used to determine when a harmonic of the sensor has been excited and to extract the harmonic vibrations from the signal to improve the signal to noise ratio. In other embodiments sound approaching along the Y axis may cause sensor to rock about an axis other than the Y axis and the difference between the detectors may be used to extract that information to improve the signal to noise ratio. Other features and applications using the difference in output between the detectors may be employed.

In other embodiments the third mode and fourth mode effects on the output signal can be reduced or eliminated by summing the detectors and and or the detectors and . The fifth mode has phase relations resembling the second mode . The sixth mode has phase relations resembling the first mode . Thus in some embodiments taking the difference of the detectors and and or similarly the difference between the detectors and will decrease or eliminate sensitivity to the fifth mode while increasing sensitivity to the sixth mode . It should be noted that the sixth mode is excited by pressure gradients across the length of the plate similar to the first mode . In some embodiments the combination of the first and sixth modes could therefore potentially be used to realize a broadband directional microphone ultrasound acoustic sensor.

Given the above discussion in some embodiments the optimal configuration for the sensor for use as a pressure gradient sensor with sensitive axis being the X axis labeled in is detector where means taking the difference signal between . In other embodiments detectors and could be poled with reversed polarity with respect to detectors and in which case the same effect could be achieved by simply summing all detectors . Either of these two configurations may results in decreased or vanishing sensitivity to undesirable second third fourth and fifth modes with increased ideally doubled sensitivity to first and sixth FIG. F desired modes. In further embodiments if wide band operation beyond audio frequency is not desired as in hearing aid and other applications the sixth mode can be filtered from the response electrically.

Sensor is configured to detect a torque of the plate about the axis in response to received acoustic energy and to indicate a direction of a source of the acoustic energy relative to the sensor. The sensor is equipped with one or more detectors that detect the torque of the plate . In one embodiment the detectors are disposed on at least a portion of the mounts . More specifically the detectors may sense torque of the plate by indicating a deformation of the mounts . In some embodiments the detectors may employ piezoelectric sensors to measure pressure strain or force in the mounts . In other embodiments the detectors may employ strain sensors such as strain gauges to measure the strain or deflection of the mounts . Other sensors are within the scope of this disclosure. In one embodiment illustrated in electrode pairs are used to sense shear stress in the mounts . In some embodiments an electrode pair is used for poling and an electrode pair is used for sensing. Alternatively the electrode pair may be used for poling and the electrode pair may be used for sensing. In some embodiments the detectors may have one or more electrical connections not shown to facilitate their operation and connectivity with an electrical system. Although two mounts and two detectors are illustrated here other configurations may include more or less mounts and or detectors. Additionally in some embodiments the number of detectors does not equal the number of mounts.

The sensor may be configured to have a high degree of directivity as discussed above with regard to the sensor . That is the sensor may exhibit a high signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more particular directions and may exhibit a much lower signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more different directions. More specifically some embodiments as illustrated in may demonstrate a high signal to noise ratio when sound waves are oriented parallel to the X axis. In this scenario as illustrated in the sound waves cause a pressure imbalance across the plate and cause the plate to rotate about the axis Y axis causing a first distal end deflection . For example a sound wave may impart a downward pressure on second distal end that exceeds the downward pressure imparted in the first distal end causing the plate to rotate in a counter clock wise direction about the axis Y axis . The rotation of the plate causes the mounts to deform and the detectors indicate the torque on the plate. Conversely if sound approaches the sensor aligned with the Y or Z axis the sound waves impinge both distal ends of the plate simultaneously so the plate does not rotate about the axis .

In some embodiments the difference between the detectors may be used to determine when a harmonic of the sensor has been excited and to extract the harmonic vibrations from the signal to improve the signal to noise ratio. In other embodiments sound approaching along the Y or Z axis may cause the sensor to rock about an axis other than the Y axis and the difference between the detectors may be used to extract that information to improve the signal to noise ratio. Other features and applications using the difference between the detectors may be employed. Some of such features and embodiments are discussed above.

It will be appreciated that the acoustic sensor described herein is illustrative and that variations and modifications are possible. For example shows an isometric view of an example acoustic sensor . The sensor includes a plate having a first distal end opposite a second distal end . The plate is configured to rotate about an axis that is oriented parallel to a Y axis of the sensor . The axis is disposed between the first distal end and the second distal end . In one embodiment the plate is affixed to a substrate via mounts that are freely rotatable during torque of the plate. In another embodiment the mounts may torsionally deform during torque of the plate wherein the mounts impart a resistive force to rotation of the plate.

In some embodiments one or more springs are attached to one or more distal ends of the plate . The springs may be configured to resist rotation of the plate . In some embodiments the springs may comprise beams wherein the beams are oriented substantially perpendicular to the first and second distal ends of the plate . Other configurations of the springs are within the scope of this disclosure.

The sensor is configured to detect a torque of the plate about the axis in response to received acoustic energy and to indicate a direction of a source of the acoustic energy relative to the sensor. The sensor is equipped with one or more detectors not shown that detect the torque of the plate . As discussed above in some embodiments detectors may be disposed on at least a portion of the springs while in other embodiments the detectors may be disposed on one or more mounts 

The sensor may be configured to have a high degree of directivity. That is as discussed above the sensor may exhibit a high signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more particular directions and may exhibit a much lower signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more different directions.

As another example shows an isometric view of an example acoustic sensor . The sensor includes a plate having a first distal end opposite a second distal end . The plate is configured to rotate about an axis that is oriented parallel to a Y axis of the sensor . The axis is disposed between the first distal end and the second distal end . In one embodiment the plate is affixed to a secondary plate via mounts that are freely rotatable during torque of the plate. In another embodiment the mounts may torsionally deform during torque of the plate wherein the mounts impart a resistive force to rotation of the plate.

In some embodiments one or more springs are attached to one or more distal ends of the plate . The springs may be configured to resist rotation of the plate . In some embodiments the springs may be beams wherein the beams are oriented substantially perpendicular to the first and second distal ends of the plate . Other configurations of the springs are within the scope of this disclosure. The secondary plate may be configured to rotate about an axis that is oriented parallel to an X axis of the sensor . In one embodiment a secondary plate is affixed to a substrate via mounts that are freely rotatable during torque of the plate. In another embodiment the mounts may torsionally deform during torque of the secondary plate wherein the mounts impart a resistive force to rotation of the secondary plate.

The sensor is configured to detect a torque of the plate about the axis and a torque of the secondary plate about the axis in response to received acoustic energy and to indicate a direction of a source of the acoustic energy relative to the sensor. The sensor is equipped with one or more detectors not shown that detect the torque of the plate and secondary plate . As discussed above in some embodiments detectors may be disposed on at least a portion of the springs while in other embodiments the detectors may be disposed on one or more mounts 

Sensor may be configured to have a high degree of directivity. That is as discussed above the sensor may exhibit a high signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more particular directions and may exhibit a much lower signal to noise ratio when sound approaches from one or more different directions.

In some embodiments the difference in readings between detectors may be used to determine when a harmonic of the sensor has been excited and to extract the harmonic vibrations from the signal to improve the signal to noise ratio. In other embodiments sound approaching along a particular axis may cause the sensor to rock about one or more axes and the difference in readings between detectors may be used to extract information to improve the signal to noise ratio and more accurately detect the direction of the source of sound. In some embodiments the acoustic sensor may have three or more axes of rotation and a signal processor may be used to maximize the signal to noise ratio in one or more particular directions while attenuating the signal from one or more other directions. In some embodiments particular frequencies may be received from one or more directions while other frequencies are attenuated from one or more other directions. Other features and applications using multiple axes of rotation and or the signal difference between detectors may be employed.

In some embodiments the plate may be sized to be larger or smaller than a particular frequency range of interest. In many embodiments the size of the final product may influence the size of the plate for instance a very small cellphone microphone versus a much larger recording studio microphone. In other embodiments the frequency range of interest may dictate the size of the plate. For instance a microphone for a hearing aid may be used between 20 to 2000 Hz versus an ultrasonic microphone that may be used upwards of 200 kHz. An ultrasonic microphone may require a plate of smaller dimensions and less torsional stiffness. In one embodiment the plate has a length of over two inches and a width of over one inch. In one embodiment the plate has a length between two inches and 0.080 inches and a width between one inch and 0.040 inches. In another embodiment the plate has length between 0.080 inches and 0.020 inches and a width between 0.040 inches and 0.010 inches. In one embodiment the plate has a length of approximately 0.080 inches and a width of approximately 0.040 inches. In further embodiments the plate has a thickness greater than 0.500 inches. In another embodiment the plate has a thickness between 0.500 inches and 0.020 inches. In one embodiment the plate has a thickness between 0.020 inches and 0.0005 inches. In one embodiment the plate has a thickness of approximately 0.001 inches. In other embodiments the plate is not rectangular and may be octagonal square round concave convex serpentine or any other shape.

Bulk and surface micromachining techniques may be employed in some embodiments to realize structures that mechanically respond to sound preferably in certain directions while resisting response to sound arriving in other directions. With directivity built into the mechanical structure no electronics may be required to implement directivity and the sensor may not suffer from phase matching issues as in the case of omnidirectional microphone pairs configured for a directional response.

In some embodiments a silicon based MEMS structure may be used to fabricate the acoustic sensor. In the process is initiated with a Silicon On Insulator SOI wafer. A single crystalline epitaxial epi silicon layer may be used to form the mechanical structure. In oxide layers are deposited on the front and back. The front oxide may serve as an adhesion layer and the thicker back oxide may serve as a hard mask for the backside etch near the end of the process. In titanium oxide is deposited which may serve as a diffusion barrier for the PZT. In titanium Ti and platinum Pt are deposited and patterned via a lift off process to form bottom electrode traces and bottom electrode bondpads. In PZT is deposited by a sol gel method and may be patterned using a wet etch of HCl HF. In Titanium Ti and Platinum Pt are deposited and patterned to form top electrode traces and top electrode bondpads. In an etch is performed through the TiO SiO silicon epi and buried SiOlayers to form the beam springs and pivot structures of the acoustic sensor. In a sacrificial oxide layer is deposited and patterned which forms the gaps between the pin and the top of the hinge when removed. In a silicon layer is deposited and patterned which i forms the top of the hinge ii protects the PZT during wet etch steps later in the process and iii can be used to form parts of the mechanical beam and or spring structures to allow greater design flexibility. In an etch is performed through the backside of the wafer to free the mechanical plate and springs. The backside oxide is patterned first to form a hard back for the backside silicon etch. The buried oxide layer serves as an etch stop. In a wet etch in BOE or HF is used to release the hinge structure and form freely rotating pivot. If this step is skipped the sacrificial oxide and silicon deposition patterning steps can also be skipped and the device will have a torsional mount instead of a freely rotating mount.

Embodiments disclosed herein leverage a microfabrication process flow and monolithically integrated piezoelectric thin films to create a robust solution with an example path to manufacture. While small scale piezoelectric sensors sometimes suffer from high noise due to dielectric loss within the film embodiments herein may achieve breakthrough noise performance 12 15 dB lower than state of the art due to the high compliance and sensitivity built into the structure. Innovative hot wire anemometer type sensors that measure acoustic particle velocity directly have been demonstrated and are in the early stages of commercialization for specialized intensity measurement applications H. E. de Bree and J. W. Wind The acoustic vector sensor a versatile battlefield acoustics sensor in Proceedings of SPIE The International Society for Optical Engineering 2011 . Foreign militaries have demonstrated aerial sniper detection drones using this technology. As thermal devices these acoustic sensors i require continuous power draw which may prohibit the technology from being used in portable systems and ii have limited frequency range due to thermal time constants. Commercialized embodiments use frequency selective amplification to artificially extend the range to 10 kHz. The proposed technology solves these and other problems in the art. For example the proposed technology here in contrast to prior technologies may have broad design space enabling designs that can operate up to or beyond 200 kHz.

A modeling procedure is presented for multiple port multiple vibration mode transducers. Unique features of the procedure include the use of modal coordinates to describe deformations of the mechanical structure the use of a network analog for each vibration mode of the structure and the selection of modal velocity rather than a particular physical velocity on the structure as the mechanical flow variable in each modal network. Finite element analysis is used only to compute a discrete set of salient circuit parameters with all other analysis and design computations performed using the networks. The approach is computationally efficient and assists with providing insights into the design of actuators and micromechanical resonators where the generation and suppression of particular vibration modes may be important. A micromachined multiple port piezoelectric microphone with in plane directivity is presented as a case study to demonstrate application of the procedure. Model verification is performed by comparing simulated and measured port to port transfer functions over a frequency range spanning several vibration modes of the device. The modeling procedure can address multiple port sensor response to distributed loadings selective excitation and suppression of modes in actuator applications and mixed sensing and actuator applications such as the demonstrated port to port measurements.

This embodiment discloses an efficient procedure for constructing a complete system model for multiple vibration mode multiple port transducers with arbitrarily complex geometries. The model is based on a modal coordinate transformation and subsequent construction of a network model for each vibration mode of the device up to the highest mode of interest. Modal velocity rather than a particular physical velocity on the structure is the mechanical flow variable through each modal network. Each mode network contains multiple transformers which represent the multiple transduction ports of the physical system. In many cases use of a network model and a finite element model are considered mutually exclusive. Either lumped approximations with limited accuracy are used in an electrical network analysis or the more rigorous finite element model is used with all simulations completely contained within the finite element program. The former typically offers more design insight and computationally efficiency while the advantage of the later is rigor and the ability to handle complex shaped structures. The proposed approach combines advantages of both. Only a discrete set of salient parameters are obtained from a finite element eigensolution simulation i.e. modal analysis . Namely these are modal masses modal resonant frequencies and transducer port transformer ratios defined for piezoelectric transducers as the short circuit charge generated at the transducer port per unity input modal displacement. For capacitive transducers the transformer ratios are defined as the charge produced at the transducer port per unity modal displacement under constant bias voltage. For design of multiple port actuators e.g. micromechanical resonators the approach provides a systematic way to compute drive voltages that selectively generate vibration modes of interest while suppressing and minimizing spurious modes.

A micromachined piezoelectric acoustic sensor with in plane directivity is presented as a simple case study and for model verification purposes M. L. et al. 102 054109 4 2013 . The device presented in is comprised of a rectangular beam that is designed to rotate about the x axis in response to sound pressure gradients along they axis. The beam rotates about the pivots labeled in like a teeter totter with the four end springs providing restoring force. The rectangular beam and the springs are etched from the same 20 m thick epitaxial silicon device layer of a silicon on insulator SOI wafer. Each of the four springs contains a piezoelectric coupling port near the spring anchor as labeled in . The ports consist of a 1 m thick sol gel deposited lead zirconate titanate PZT film in between top and bottom Ti Pt electrodes. Coupling works in the 3 1 mode as bending of a 20 m thick silicon spring induces elongations and contractions of the thin film at the spring s top surface in turn resulting in a z axis electric field or short circuited charge across the electrodes. is a zoomed in micrograph near the base of two springs highlighting the pivot the electrodes and the routing of electrical signals out to bond pads near the edge of the chip. are scanning electron micrographs SEMs of the bond pad and pivot regions respectively. A 3 D CAD rendering of the device is shown in . Although the pivot may appear to be free floating in it is anchored to the bulk silicon substrate via the embedded oxide layer of the SOI wafer as shown in .

Modal analysis results obtained using ANSYS are presented in . The first vibration mode which resembles a rocking teeter totter is the desired mode of operation. For acoustic frequencies where wavelength is large compared to the device dimension this device mode is only responsive to P y pressure gradients and therefore has a dipole response to sound pressure. The sensitive axis of the dipole is the y axis labeled in . In this particular embodiment all other higher order modes are considered spurious since they are excited by omnidirectional pressure and pressure gradients other than the desired P y measurand. The presence of these modes can corrupt the desired directionality and add undesirable cross axis sensitivity to the device response. Therefore although the device is intended to operate in the first rocking mode it is beneficial to be able to model and control spurious higher order modes.

Multiple ports in this sensor application can serve to enhance signal to noise ratio SNR and suppress sensitivity to undesirable modes. Signals at ports one and two in are complimentary to signals at ports three and four for first mode vibrations. All of the ports in may have a floating ground. If open circuit voltage signals at ports one and two are summed and subtracted from the sum of signals at ports three and four a factor of square root over 4 2 or 6 dB enhancement in the first mode SNR is realized. Further this configuration suppresses signal sensitivity to second mode vibrations which are excited by the omnidirectional component of sound pressure. If port sensitivities can be matched to within one percent forty decibels of second mode signal suppression can be achieved. In previous directional microphone designs with single port optical readout complex fabrication procedures were required to increase the modal stiffness coefficient of the second mode and push its frequency outside the sensor frequency band of interest R. N. et al. 125 2013 26 2009 . The proposed multiple sensing port approach has the advantage of simpler microfabrication with reduced processing steps. In future sensor embodiments multiple ports may prove useful for combined sensing and actuation to implement closed loop feedback altered dynamics and or force feedback operation which offers the possibility to selectively stiffen and soften modes of interest and improve dynamic range B. E. Boser R. T. Howe 31 366 75 1996 M. Lemkin B. E. Boser A 34 456 68 1999 .

To explore all cases above a rigorous model should be able to quantify the electromechanical coupling and sensitivity at each transducer port at any frequency. An ideal model should accurately predict port sensitivities for any type of the sensor input e.g. acceleration or pressure across a wide frequency band encompassing multiple vibration modes. As a final example illustrating the application of such a model to the sensor system in it is noted that pressure gradients resulting from sound incident in the x direction excite spurious rotational modes three and four depicted in which degrades cross axis rejection. The proposed network model presents a procedure for quantifying such effects at the design stage.

The model presented in this report is also ideal for studying multi port actuators and in particular multi mode resonators e.g. micromechanical resonators addressing RF MEMS applications . Higher order vibration modes are deliberately used in RF MEMS to achieve high frequency and or high Q oscillations K. E. Wojciechowski et al. 2009 Denver Colo. USA 2009 G. Piazza et al. 111 71 8 2004 P. J. Stephanou A. P. Pisano 2401 4 2006 G. Piazza P. J. Stephanou A. P. Pisano 51 1596 608 2007 . The model presented here presents a systematic way to quantify and control the participation and generation of modes in a vibration by controlling the amplitude and phase of excitation voltages at multiple transducer ports. Another example of multiple port MEMS transducers is RF MEMS accelerometers described by Olsson et al. that detect shifts in modal resonant frequencies of a structure due to in plane accelerations R. H. Olsson et al. 18 671 8 2009 . These structures use multiple aluminum nitride AlN piezoelectric ports to generate and detect vibration of a tuning fork structure. Yet another example of multiple port MEMS are multiple electrode capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducers CMUTs presented by Degertekin et al. which utilize exterior electrodes of a CMUT for biasing and interior electrodes for dynamic actuation and ultrasonic detection R. O. Guldiken et al. 55 2236 344 2008 R. O. Guldiken et al. 56 1270 6 2009 R. O. Guldiken J. McLean F. L. Degertekin 53 483 91 2006 N. A. Hall et al. 2004 pp. 260 3 . In what follows the modeling procedure is described and model verification experiments are presented in which simulated and measured port to port transfer functions are compared across a broad frequency range encompassing multiple vibration modes of the device structure in .

The modeling procedure is based on two steps i modal analysis and modal coordinate decomposition and ii creating a network for each mode with modal velocity the mechanical flow variable in the network. Multiple transformers are used in each modal network with each transformer corresponding to a transduction port of the physical system.

The time dependent displacement right arrow over u x y z t of a mechanical structure from equilibrium may be expressed as a superposition of vibratory modes as

The above analysis procedure summarized by 1 through 5 is an efficient and powerful technique commonly applied in the analysis of purely mechanical vibratory systems J. H. Ginsberg New York John Wiley Sons 2001 V. B. Bokil U. S. Shirahatti 173 23 41 1994 F. Daneshmand E. Ghavanloo 26 236 52 2010 .

To incorporate multiple port electromechanical coupling an approach is used that combines the normal mode coordinate system with network analogs which are pervasive in the study of energy coupling transducers H. A. C. Tilmans 6 359 1996 H. A. C. Tilmans 7 285 1997 S. Roundy 16 809 23 2005 S. B. Horowitz et al. 16 174 81 2006 M. Ferrari et al. 55 2096 101 2006 M. L. Kuntzman et al. 20 828 33 2011 M. D. Williams et al. 21 270 83 2012 . Equation 2 may be represented using a simple second order RLC network model as shown in the right half of with dot over i.e. the modal velocity as the mechanical flow variable through the network and F the modal force as the effort variable in the network. Coupling of energy to the piezoelectric ports is represented with the transformers shown in each transformer and electrical port in the network corresponding to a physical piezoelectric port labeled in . The symbol is used to denote the transformer ratio characterizing electromechanical coupling at the j th port due to structural deformation of the i th vibration mode. Voltage and current at each port follow the same notation. Specifically Vand idenote voltage and current respectively generated at the j th port due to motion of the i th mode. Selection of Fand dot over as mechanical port variables predefines as the short circuit charge generated at port j per a mechanical modal displacement of unity. Each port j is also characterized by an electrical capacitance under blocked mechanical conditions C as shown in the network of .

Each modal analysis result presented in provides complete information needed to construct the network for that mode. The critical circuit parameters are modal mass m set to unity mode compliance C equal to 1 and all of the port transformer values which are numerically equal to the short circuit charge at each port as provided by ANSYS resulting from the modal displacement of unity. Table 1 summarizes all of the salient network parameters for the first six vibration modes all obtainable from the six discrete eigensolutions produced by ANSYS and summarized in . Piezoelectric material properties for the microfabrication processing conditions used in this work have been experimentally determined using the method described in D. Kim et al. 22 295 302 2013 and these properties were used in the finite element model. Mechanical damping is not provided as part of the modal analysis but if desired can be modeled from first principles in the design stage for each modal displacement profile. Alternatively a modal damping ratio can be chosen for each mode in an ad hoc manner and or later fitted to experimental data. In either case mechanical resistance Rof each mode is equal to 2 .

To analyze the response of the sensor in to acoustic plane waves arriving in the y direction consider that pressure loading is provided by P y t Pewith Pand k the amplitude and wavenumber of the incident sound. Taking y 0 as the pivot location all modal forces Fcan be computed following 4 most easily performed within the FEA software package. The network for each mode can then be analyzed independently for any parameter of interest and the results then superimposed. For example if the short circuit charge is sensed at all of the ports shown in as would be the case when using charge amplifiers with ideally zero input impedance then each mode displacement is given by

The total charge signal at a particular port j would then be given as the superposition of the charge signal generated by each mode or

If instead open circuit voltages are sensed makes clear that each mode is electromechanically stiffened by C terms which physically arise due to storage of electrical potential energy in the form of charge separation at each piezoelectric port. Kim et al recently used similar effects to tune RF oscillators in which case external capacitors were connected to ports in an AlN MEMS resonator B. Kim R. H. Olsson K. E. Wojciechowski 11 Beijing China 2011 pp. 502 5 . The proposed model presents a convenient method for quantifying such effects across multiple vibration modes.

The network in can also be used to efficiently model the response of the structure to actuation voltages applied at the ports. Most generally voltage inputs of different amplitude and phase can be applied at each port and the complex amplitude of the voltage input at each port will affect the extent to which a particular vibration mode is generated or suppressed. Assuming zero external loading the modal force Fin is zero for each mode. Further there can be only physical voltage V applied at each port. Referring to the modal force generated by application of a voltage Vat port one is V which results from transferring the applied signal to the right side of the transformer. The total modal force generated on the first mode which determines the participation of mode 1 in the overall response is then

Equation 9 represents an M N set of equations and is a system matrix that completely characterizes the mapping of complex actuation voltages to the modal forces acting to drive each mode. In an analysis scenario modal forces Fresulting from a particular set of actuation voltages Vcan be computed using 9 . As a design scenario one may desire to discover the port actuation voltages that produce a desired set of modal forces F and to do so one would multiply 9 by the inverse of denoted . i.e. 10 

Equation 10 can be solved so long as is computable. A necessary but insufficient condition is that N be at least equal to or greater than M i.e. at least as many actuation ports are required as the number of modes one wishes to control the actuation of . Because 10 enables the selection of modal forces the symbol is referred to as the mode selectivity matrix of a multi port transducer system. Mode suppression is important for example in the design and operation of high frequency micromechanical resonators K. E. Wojciechowski et al. 2009 Denver Colo. USA 2009 G. Piazza et al. 15 1406 18 2006 . Equation 10 may also find application in the design of closed loop force feedback sensor systems where it is desired to apply feedback to certain vibration modes but not to others e.g. manipulating only a pair of system poles while leaving others unaffected .

For applications such as chemical sensing G. Fischerauer et al. 1996 pp. 439 42 0. Tigli M. E. Zaghloul 7 219 27 2007 in some embodiments it may be advantageous to use a multiple port transducer to actuate with one port and sense with another while monitoring changes in the port to port transfer function TF that result from detection of a particular agent. Port to port transfer functions are readily simulated using the networks summarized in . For example the transfer function between charge measured at port two and an applied actuation voltage at port one is determined by solving for q Vfor each modal network individually and superimposing results. For all ports shorted except port one qdue to actuation voltage Vis provided by

Model verification is performed by comparing simulated port to port transfer functions TFs with measured TFs for the structure in . A broadband white noise input voltage was applied at port four while the open circuit voltage was measured at port two. A high input impedance non inverting amplifier op amp model TI TLE2072 10 M input impedance and 100 and 1 gain resistors to provide 11 closed loop voltage gain was used to measure the voltage at port two and the 11 gain is later discounted for presentation of results. The fast Fourier transform FFT of the port two signal is normalized to the FFT of the input spectrum at port four to obtain the measured amplitude transfer function presented in . The procedure was automated and performed using the bin centers feature of the Prism dScope Series III audio analyzer. The port four to port three 4 3 TF was also measured and is presented in . Both TFs were simulated using the network in with circuit parameters summarized in Table 1. present a comparison of measured and simulated 4 2 and 4 3 TFs respectively. Two simulations are presented for each case one using the modal resonance frequencies directly from the finite element model and one using resonant frequencies that have been fitted to correspond to peak frequencies in the measured data. Both sets of modal resonance frequencies are summarized in Table 1. The presented model accurately predicts the measured response with high quantitative accuracy over a broad frequency range spanning more than four vibration modes of the device. The phase of the 4 2 TF was also measured using a National Instruments PXI 4461 dynamic signal analyzer and a LabVIEW frequency sweep virtual instrument VI and presented alongside simulation results in . Again network simulation shows highly accurate results across a frequency range covering five vibration modes of the device. The complex interactions of translation and rotational modes in that give rise to the differences in the measured 4 2 and 4 3 TFs are captured by the model.

As noted from the 4 2 TF is one in which actuation and detection are on opposing sides of the pivot while actuation and detection are on the same side of the pivot for the 4 3 TF. In light of this and the mode shapes presented in some interesting differences of the measured TFs in are noted. For the opposing side case first and second mode contributions are out of phase at frequencies to left of fwhile they are in phase for the for same side case. This explains why the 4 2 TF is lower in amplitude than the 4 3 TF at DC. To the right of f the phase of the first mode shifts 180 degrees and first and second modes are in phase for the 4 2 TF and out of phase for 4 3 TF. This explains the anti resonance in the 4 3 case and the absence of an anti resonance in the 4 2 case. Similar reasoning explains the difference in the TFs near and in between modes three and four i.e. between 35 kHz 37 kHz in .

In this particular case study damping was not modeled but rather fitted. The Q of each resonance peak was extracted from the measured TF data and used in the networks of to generate the simulation. Finally although not discussed in this report modeling of direct port to port capacitive coupling predicts a level of 60 dB which is coincidentally near the same level as motional coupling in between resonances. The direct port to port coupling is due to the insulating oxide and conductive epitaxial silicon plane which resides beneath the piezoelectric ports to form additional parasitic capacitors. This direct coupling has no frequency dependence over the measurement range presented. It has also been included in the simulation results in . For clarity it is noted that the port to port transfer function measurements are not pertinent to the fundamental operation of the piezoelectric microphone device presented. Rather this measurement and device were chosen as a means to illustrate verification of the device model.

A modeling procedure has been disclosed that provides a conceptual framework for integrating FEM results into a network model for multiple mode multiple port transducers and resonators. The model combines the advantage of computationally efficiency of simple networks with FEA s ability to model complex geometries and multiple vibration modes. Only a discrete set of essential parameters are obtained from ANSYS through modal analysis which serve as a complete system description upon insertion into multiple port modal networks. The networks completely map all electrical port variables to each other and to external loading for complete input output I O characterization. Subsequent calculations e.g. sensor response under distributed loads or port to port transfer functions can be performed using computationally efficient circuit simulation tools. In addition to computational efficiency the demonstrated model also yields design insights for actuators and resonators. Specifically equation 10 enables one to discover a set of port voltages that produce a desired set of modal forces which in turn controls the participation and suppression of modes in the resonator response. A directional multiple port piezoelectric microphone was presented as a case study and quantitative accuracy of the model was verified by comparing amplitude and phase spectra of simulated and measured port to port transfer functions. Although piezoelectric transduction was the focus in this disclosure the modeling procedure may be equally applicable to linear analysis of capacitive transducers in which case the transformer ratios depend on bias voltage. The presented procedure may find application in the field of advanced sensors and RF MEMS. As a final note the network models in that describe each mode are also readily converted to a complete state space description if desired. In this case a choice of state variables could consist of charge across each port capacitor modal displacement and modal velocity dot over .

Microphones are one of the hottest growth areas of MEMS with 1 billion units shipped globally in 2011 and 2.9 billion anticipated in 2015. J. Bouchard IHS iSuppli Special Report MEMS Microphones 2011 The majority of MEMS microphones are omnidirectional. Directional microphones have been shown to benefit source localization and improve speech clarity in noisy environments A. M. Amlani et al. 45 319 330 2006 P. J. Blamey et al. 17 7 519 530 2006 B. W. Y. Hornsby and T. A. Ricketts 28 2 177 186 2007 T. Ricketts et al. 24 5 424 439 2003 and are commonly implemented by utilizing a pair of spaced omnidirectional microphones to compute the pressure gradient between two points in space. The cost of directionality is increased self noise of the configuration due to the measurement of small pressure differences. For a spaced pair the ratio of pressure difference P to acoustic pressure is k x where k is the wavenumber and x is the spacing between the pair. For a pair of microphones separated by 4 mm measuring sound at 1 kHz the driving pressure difference is 23 dB below the acoustic pressure and the input referred self noise of the configuration increases proportionally. Considering MEMS microphones have noise floors typically in the 32 dBA range total noise in excess of 55 dBA is anticipated.

Miles et al. introduced and developed a biologically inspired rocking structure that is hinged by a torsional pivot and mechanically selective to the direction of incoming sound. C. Gibbons and R. N. Miles ASME 2000 pp. 1 7 K. Yoo et al. A 97 98 448 456 2002 In addition to offering a very compact pressure gradient microphone with experimentally verified figure of 8 directivity laboratory prototypes simultaneously demonstrated a 10 dB lower noise floor and ten times reduction in size compared to state of the art low noise miniature microphones used in hearing aids. Demonstrations to date have relied on an optical readout approach. W. Cui et al. in 2006 Istanbul Turkey 2006 pp. 614 617 R. N. Miles et al. 125 4 2013 2026 2009 N. A. Hall and F. L. Degertekin 80 20 3859 3861 2002 Although advances in low profile packaging of optical microphones have been recently demonstrated M. L. Kuntzman et al. 20 4 828 833 2011 consideration of other approaches may prove advantageous.

Piezoelectric MEMS microphones have been explored and advanced by many research teams. P. R. Scheeper et al. 44 1 11 1994 Piezoelectric materials commonly used for micromachined microphones are zinc oxide ZnO E. S. Kim and R. S. Muller 8 10 467 468 1987 M. Royer et al. 4 357 362 1983 S. S. Lee et al. 5 4 238 242 1996 aluminum nitride AlN M. D. Williams et al. 21 2 270 283 2012 R. S. Fazzio et al. in 14 Lyon Frace 2007 pp. 1255 1258 and lead zirconate titanate PZT . S. A. Saleh et al. in 2003 46 2003 Vol. 2 pp. 897 900 H. J. Zhao et al. in 12 Boston 2003 pp. 234 237 H. Stephen et al. 122 6 3428 3436 2007 PZT is a common material for piezoelectric acoustic sensors because it has significantly higher piezoelectric coefficients and coupling factors than AlN and ZnO although AlN has recently garnered attention due to low dielectric loss and the potential for overall signal to noise ratio SNR improvements. M. D. Williams et al. 21 2 270 283 2012 In this example embodiment a device is disclosed that synthesizes the pioneering directional microphone work by Miles et al. with advances in piezoelectric MEMS fabrication to produce a rocking style microphone with an integrated PZT readout mechanism. The microfabrication process is presented along with directivity measurements which confirm the anticipated functionality of the device.

The ferroelectric properties of the PZT films were verified by measuring polarization vs. electric field using a standard Sawyer Tower circuit. C. B. Sawyer and C. H. Tower 35 3 269 273 1930 The anticipated hysteresis behavior is observed in where saturation and remnant polarizations of 22 and 10 C cm respectively are observed. These values are similar to those presented by other researchers in the field and indicative of films with strong ferroelectric properties. C. Wang et al. 90 172903 2007 M. Deshpande and L. Saggere 135 690 699 2007 H. Jacobsen et al. 135 23 27 2007 The directivity of the structure was verified by applying a broadband chirp signal through an Adam A5 studio monitor and measuring the device output spectrum with a Prism dScope Series III audio signal analyzer. A standard non inverting amplifier with 10 M input bias resistor and 10 gain was used to amplify the signal from the device. The frequency response in proximity of the first rotational mode of the device is presented in for multiple angles of incidence. As anticipated the amplitude of the output is highly sensitive to angle of incidence. Full 360 measurements were performed at the first mode frequency to generate the measured directivity plot in demonstrating the anticipated device function.

With some assumptions permitted a simple analysis can be used to explore performance possibilities. A description of variables in the analysis is presented in Table I. The mechanical response of a rotational system may be expressed as

For a design with a 4 m thick Si device layer 1 mm 2 mm beam size f 1 kHz and 0.5 the beam tip deflection at each end can be computed as 50 nm Pa at a frequency of 1 kHz. Modeling the end springs as cantilevers fabricated in the device layer yields a simple approach to computing the open circuit voltage from thin PZT films atop the spring surface. Reference 25 D. Kim et al. . published online provides an analytical expression for this situation and summarizes experimentally derived properties of microfabricated PZT films. For a 1 mm long 200 m wide spring with a 2 m thick film covering of a spring s length an open circuit voltage of 0.61 mV Pa is computed. The dominant noise source in small scale piezoelectric sensors is most commonly the result of dielectric loss in the film typically expressed as the ratio of real to imaginary film impedance or tan . The loss resistance in series with the device capacitance is R tan Cand its generated noise appears directly at the sensor output. Tan values of 0.03 are common for PZT. L. P. Wang et al. 12 4 433 439 2003 Again using film properties from Ref 25 D. Kim et al. . published online a noise density of 13 nV Hz is computed at 1 kHz which when referred to the input sensitivity of 0.61 mV Pa yields an equivalent pressure noise of 22 Pa Hz at 1 kHz. The combined effect of the frequency dependent loss resistance and sensitivity governed by Eq. 3 results in an input referred pressure noise that has a minimum value at the resonant frequency f has a slope of 30 dB dec below f and a 10 dB dec slope above f. A weighted integration of this noise results in a 48 dBA noise floor for a single spring. Summing the output from four springs should yield a 6 dB improvement and a device noise of 42 dBA. As shown by Miles et al. R. N. Miles et al. 125 4 2013 2026 2009 the equivalent noise of two Knowles EM microphones separated by 10 mm is approximately 48 dBA. The simple analysis of the device technology under study suggests that better noise floors are achievable 6 dB improvement from a single sensor more than 5 smaller in size. The intent of this disclosure is not to present an optimized design but rather to demonstrate feasibility of an embodiment of the device. Use of different device dimensions thicker films bimorph films as opposed to single layer films and or different materials with lower tan such as AlN may enable the possibility to yield lower noise.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein are possible in view of the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods apparatus articles of manufacture and or systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein such terms can be translated from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

In general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . If a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense as would be understood for the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense as would be understood for the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . Virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

For any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. All language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. A range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments are possible. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

