---

title: Optical interconnect assembly
abstract: An optical assembly includes a substrate with a first row of apertures and a second row of apertures. A first optical die includes a first plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each transducer element is aligned with an aperture of the first row of optical apertures. A second optical die includes a second plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each of the second plurality of optical transducer elements is aligned with an aperture of the second row of optical apertures. A connector configured to mate with the optical assembly supports a plurality of optical fibers. A terminal end of each optical fiber protrudes from the connector and extends into one of the apertures when the connector is coupled with the optical assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052485&OS=09052485&RS=09052485
owner: Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
number: 09052485
owner_city: Kansas City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130205
---
The present invention was developed with support from the U.S. government under a contract with the United States Department of Energy Contract No. DE ACO4 01AL66850. Accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to optical to electrical and electrical to optical transducers and connectors. More particularly embodiments of the invention involve an assembly for quickly and reliably coupling a mechanically transferable MT connector to an electrical circuit.

Fiber optics are increasingly used in communications and networking applications due to the wide bandwidth each optical fiber is capable of carrying and because optical fibers are flexible and can be bundled as cables. When used in fiber optic communication for example optical fibers generally permit digital data transmission over longer distances and at higher data rates than other forms of wired and wireless communications. An optical fiber is a cylindrical dielectric waveguide that transmits light along its axis by the process of total internal reflection. The fiber consists of a core surrounded by a cladding layer. To confine the optical signal in the core the refractive index of the core must be greater than that of the cladding.

Use of fiber optics presents challenges such as the need for precise alignment in optical interconnects. Such interconnects require certain parts to be carefully and precisely placed to ensure optical signals are not interrupted. Interconnects for arrays of optical fibers for example are costly and time consuming to manufacture requiring each optical element to be precisely aligned.

The above section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art.

An optical assembly constructed in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention comprises a rigid mount and a substrate secured to the mount. The substrate includes a first row of optical apertures a second row of optical apertures and a pair of optical dies. A first optical die includes a first plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each transducer element is aligned with an optical aperture of the first row of optical apertures. A second optical die includes a second plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each of the second plurality of optical transducer elements is aligned with an optical aperture of the second row of optical apertures.

An optical interconnect assembly constructed in accordance with another embodiment of the invention comprises an optical assembly and a connector configured to mate with the optical assembly. The optical assembly includes a substrate with a plurality of optical apertures and an optical die mounted on a first side of the substrate. The optical die includes a plurality of optical transducer elements each with an optical interface aligned with one of the optical apertures. The optical connector includes a rigid body and a plurality of optical fibers supported by the body. Each of the optical fibers extends beyond an outer surface of the connector body and terminates a distance from the outer surface. The optical connector is configured such that each of the fibers extends at least part way through one of the optical apertures from a second side of the substrate when the optical connector is coupled with the optical assembly.

In a related embodiment the optical interconnect assembly includes a first row of optical apertures a second row of optical apertures and a pair of optical dies mounted thereon. A first optical die includes a first plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on a first side of the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each transducer element is aligned with an optical aperture of the first row of optical apertures. A second optical die includes a second plurality of optical transducer elements and is mounted on the first side of the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each of the second plurality of optical transducer elements is aligned with an optical aperture of the second row of optical apertures.

The optical connector includes a body and a plurality of optical fibers supported by the body the optical fibers being arranged in two rows and configured such that each of the optical fibers extends beyond an outer surface of the body and terminates a distance from the outer surface. The optical connector is configured to mate with the optical assembly such that each of the fibers extends at least part way through one of the optical apertures from a second side of the substrate.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described in the detailed description below. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of the embodiments and the accompanying drawing figures.

The drawing figures do not limit the present invention to the specific embodiments disclosed and described herein. The drawings are not necessarily to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the invention.

The following detailed description of embodiments of the invention references the accompanying drawings. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the claims. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

In this description references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments mean that the feature or features being referred to are included in at least one embodiment of the technology. Separate references to one embodiment an embodiment or embodiments in this description do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and are also not mutually exclusive unless so stated and or except as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description. For example a feature structure act etc. described in one embodiment may also be included in other embodiments but is not necessarily included. Thus the present technology can include a variety of combinations and or integrations of the embodiments described herein.

An optical assembly incorporating principles of the present teachings is illustrated in and designated generally by the reference numeral . The optical assembly generally comprises a mount a substrate and an optical die . The assembly generally interconnects an optical mechanically transferable MT connector to an electrical circuit such as a printed circuit board PCB .

The mount protects and gives rigidity to the substrate protects the die and provides a means for mounting the optical assembly to an external structure such as an external printed circuit board. Therefore the mount is preferably substantially rigid and may be constructed of plastic ceramic metal or similar materials.

A plurality of alignment pin holes generally extend from a front of the mount to a back of the mount along a first axis and receive alignment pins . As explained below the alignment pin holes provide a means for aligning the mount the substrate and the MT connector . A plurality of mounting holes generally extend from a top of the mount to a bottom of the mount along a second axis. The mounting holes may receive pins screws bolts or other fastening devices to secure the mount to an external structure.

A first side of the mount includes a recess for receiving the optical die when the substrate is bonded to the mount . A bottom of the mount includes a bottom recessed portion that exposes a plurality of external bonding pads of the substrate as explained below in greater detail. While the alignment pin holes and the mounting holes are illustrated and described herein as generally being perpendicular to each other it will be appreciated that alternative equally preferred implementations may be used according to the demands of a particular situation all of which are within the ambit of the present technology. For example in some situations it may be desirable or necessary to position the mounting holes so that they generally extend from a front of the mount to a back of the mount and thus are generally parallel to the alignment pin holes .

The substrate supports the optical die and provides one or more circuit elements for electrically interconnecting the optical die with an external circuit such as an external printed circuit board. The substrate may be a printed circuit board and is sufficiently thin to minimize the divergence of light passing through the substrate and thereby minimizes optical losses during operation. Thus the thickness of the substrate is related to the optical divergence of the die and the core size of the target optical fiber such that the preferred thickness of the substrate may vary according to the characteristics of the die and the optical fiber used in MT connector .

The substrate may be made from polyimide or a similar polymer or other material capable of enduring the high temperatures associated with solder re flow processes. The substrate may be a printed circuit board a thin film network a thick film network a low temperature co fired ceramic material and so forth. In an exemplary implementation the substrate thickness is preferably within the range of from about 0.025 mm to about 1.27 mm more preferably within the range of from about 0.050 mm to about 1.0 mm and even more preferably within the range of from about 0.075 mm to about 0.75 mm. A thickness of 0.152 mm or less may be desirable for example when using a generic optical die and a 0.050 mm core optical fiber. It will be appreciated that other substrate thicknesses may be preferred or required for different types of optical die and or optical fiber with different core sizes.

The substrate includes an array of optical apertures that allow light to pass through the substrate incident on or generated from the optical die . The substrate further comprises a plurality of alignment pin holes that generally correspond to the alignment pin holes of the mount and are generally in registry with the alignment pin holes of the mount when the substrate is bonded to the mount . The substrate includes a first side and a second side . A plurality of die bonding elements such as solder pads are located on the first side of the substrate and are used to secure the optical die to the substrate . The die bonding elements are positioned relative to the optical apertures so that when the optical die is bonded to the substrate the optical apertures of the substrate are in registry with optical apertures of the die array .

In an exemplary implementation the optical apertures each have a diameter preferably within the range of from about 0.025 mm to about 0.49 mm more preferably within the range of from about 0.050 mm to about 0.38 mm even more preferably within the range of from about 0.075 mm to about 0.25 mm most preferably about 0.152 mm. The center to center distance between two consecutive optical apertures depends upon the requirements of the particular implementation but may be for example 0.25 mm.

A plurality of external bonding elements such as solder pads may be located on the first side of the substrate the second side or both. The external bonding elements provide a means for electrically and or mechanically connecting the substrate to an external structure such as an external printed circuit board. A plurality of electrical traces interconnect at least some of the die bonding elements to at least some of the external bonding elements . When assembled the first side of the substrate is bonded to the first side of the mount such that the optical die corresponds to the recess of the mount .

A perspective view of the optical die is presented in . The optical die includes one or more optical to electrical transducer elements one or more electrical to optical transducer elements or a combination thereof. Exemplary transducer elements may include for example a photodiode or a laser diode. A die including a plurality of optical elements presents particular advantages over existing methods of assembling optical array connectors because for example a die with an array of elements is aligned and secured as a single entity as opposed to each individual element.

The optical die includes a plurality of solder beads for electrically and mechanically attaching the optical die to the substrate . The solder beads may be made of any solder material known in the art including for example Au Sn In Sb and so forth. The solder beads generally correspond with the die bonding elements of the substrate when the optical die array is placed on the substrate .

An optical signal interface associated with each optical element may include an aperture for allowing light to pass into or out of each element of the optical die array and the interfaces are located to be in registry with the optical apertures of the substrate when the optical die array is soldered to the substrate as explained below in greater detail. While the present teachings are generally discussed with reference to an optical die including a plurality of optical elements it will be appreciated that the present teachings contemplate use of virtually any number of optical elements a single die element.

The die may be virtually any size according to the requirements of the particular implementation. In an exemplary implementation the optical die preferably has a length within the range of from about 2.5 mm to about 3.6 mm more preferably from about 2.7 mm to about 3.4 mm even more preferably from about 2.9 mm to about 3.2 mm most preferably about 3.15 mm. In the exemplary implementation the optical die preferably has a width within the range of from about 0.35 mm to about 0.550 mm more preferably from about 0.40 mm to about 0.5 mm most preferably about 0.45 mm. The solder beads may vary in size from one implementation to another according to the requirements of each implementation but may be about 0.60 mm high and about 0.80 mm in diameter.

A side elevation cross sectional view of the assembly is presented in further illustrating a sealant placed in the recess to partially or entirely encase the die thereby protect the die . A thermally conductive epoxy may be used for the sealant thus providing heat dissipation from the die to the mount .

Referring now to an alternative implementation of the present teachings includes a lens array located between the substrate and the MT connector . The lens array includes a plurality of alignment pin holes that are generally in registry with the alignment pin holes of the mount and the alignment pin holes of the substrate when assembled. The lens array is not necessary for operation of the optical assembly but in certain implementations may improve the efficiency of the assembly by for example focusing light emitted from the die into each fiber or vice versa so that the light is within the numerical aperture of the fiber. The lens array may also be used to focus light passing into the optical signal interface of the die . It will be appreciated that use of the lens array increases the margin of error in the manufacture and assembly of the various components of the assembly . If an optical signal originating from the die is focused by the lens array for example the assembly is more tolerant of misalignment errors between the die and the MT connector .

The shape and size of the lens array may vary from one implementation to another according to the requirements of each implementation. In an exemplary implementation however the length of the lens array is about 6.4 mm and the width is about 2.5 mm. The thickness is preferably within the range of from about 0.05 mm to about 0.11 mm more preferably from about 0.06 mm to about 0.10 mm even more preferably from about 0.07 mm to about 0.09 mm and most preferably about 0.08 mm. The center to center distance between consecutive lenses may be 0.25 mm and the diameter of each lens may be 0.24 mm.

The optical assembly is assembled by first bonding the optical die to the die bonding pads of the substrate . This involves aligning the optical die with the bonding pads such that the solder beads of the die correspond to the die bonding pads . The optical die and substrate are then heated sufficiently to cause the solder beads to reflow and then allowed to cool thereby bonding the optical die to the die bonding elements of the substrate . This process is often referred to as flip chip bonding and is advantageous over other methods because for example the entire die is bonded to the substrate in a single process.

A sealant such as an epoxy coating is then applied to the optical die to at least partially encase and protect the optical die . If a thermally conducting epoxy is used as the sealant it would further dissipate heat away from the die . The first side of the substrate to which optical die is bonded is then bonded to the first side of the mount so that the optical die is generally within the recess of the mount . Thus the optical die will be at least partially enclosed by the mount for protection. The substrate may be bonded to the mount using for example an epoxy. As illustrated in and the external bonding elements are exposed when the substrate is bonded to the mount thus facilitating attachment of the external bonding elements to an external structure.

The mount may then be permanently or removably attached to an external structure such as an external printed circuit board using for example the mounting holes of the mount . Alternatively the external bonding pads of the substrate may be bonded to a portion of the external structure. The MT optical connector may be permanently or removably attached to the second side of the substrate wherein alignment pins extend through the alignment pin holes of the mount and the alignment pin holes of the substrate to ensure that the optical fibers of the MT connector are in registry with the optical apertures of the substrate and the optical apertures of the optical die .

A substrate constructed in accordance with another embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The substrate is similar in form and function to the substrate described above except that the substrate is configured for use with two optical dies rather than one. More particularly the substrate includes two rows of optical apertures and associated die bonding elements to accommodate two optical dies . The substrate also includes two sets of external connection elements electrically associated with the die bonding elements .

A first plurality of die bonding elements is located on a first side of the substrate and is associated with the first row of optical apertures to secure the first optical die to the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each of the optical elements of the die is aligned with one of the optical apertures . A second plurality of die bonding elements is also located on the first side of the substrate and is associated with the second row of optical apertures to secure the second optical die to the substrate such that an optical signal interface of each of the optical elements is aligned with one of the optical apertures .

A first plurality of external connection elements is associated with the first plurality of bonding pads and a second plurality of external connection elements is associated with the second plurality of bonding pads . As illustrated the first plurality of external connection elements is located on a second side of the substrate while the second plurality of external connection elements is located on the first side of the substrate . Each of the external connection elements is in electrical communication with at least one of the die bonding pads to communicate signals between the optical dies and an external circuit. The external connection elements may be similar to the external bonding elements described above.

The first optical die is attached to the first plurality of die bonding elements such that the optical signal interfaces of the optical die elements are aligned with the first row of optical apertures of the substrate . The second optical die is attached to the second plurality of die bonding elements such that the optical signal interfaces of the optical die elements are aligned with the second row of optical apertures. Each of the optical dies may be similar to the optical die described above in form and function and may include one or more optical to electrical transducer elements one or more electrical to optical transducer elements or a combination thereof. It may be desirable for example to use a first optical die with optical to electrical sensor elements such as vertical cavity surface emitting lasers and a second optical die with electrical to optical sensor elements such as photodiodes to enable simultaneous signal transmission and reception with the assembly .

A connector constructed in accordance with another embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The connector is configured to mate with the optical assembly and is similar to the connector described above except that the connector is configured such that a terminal end of each of the optical fibers protrudes a distance beyond an end face of the connector . When the connector is attached to the optical assembly each of the protruding ends of the optical fibers extends into or through one of the optical apertures of the substrate such that the optical fibers terminate more closely to the optical transducer elements of the optical die as illustrated in . By reducing or eliminating the gap between the optical die and the terminal ends of the optical fibers a more reliable optical connection is made between the optical fibers and the optical die .

A connector constructed in accordance with yet another embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The connector illustrated in may be identical to the connector illustrated in except that the connector includes two rows of optical fibers instead of one. Thus the connector illustrated in may be used with the substrate and the connector illustrated in may be used with the substrate . Each of the two rows of fibers may be identical to the row of fibers described above including terminal ends that extend beyond an end face of the connector.

In both connectors the optical fibers may protrude a distance of between 0.01 mm and 1.0 mm and more preferably a distance of between 0.1 mm and 0.8 mm. The optical fibers may be separated by a distance of about 0.25 mm. The optical fibers may be separated by a side to side distance of about 0.25 mm and the rows may be separated by a distance of about 0.5 mm.

An enlarged view of one of the protruding fibers positioned within an aperture of the substrate is illustrated in . In some embodiments the optical fiber protrudes far enough into the aperture to terminate very close to the optical die but without contacting the die . Avoiding physical contact between the die and the optical fiber while not required may prevent damage to the fiber the die or both. By way of example a distance of less than 0.01 mm may separate the terminal end of the optical fiber and the die . Thus the optimal length of the protruding section of the optical fiber will depend on such factors as the amount of space if any between the connector body and the substrate the thickness of the substrate and the amount of space if any between the substrate and the die . Reflowed solder bonds providing physical and electrical connections between the substrate and the die for example may separate the die from the substrate by a space.

Because the protruding portion of the optical fiber bridges the gap between the connector body and the optical die design constraints associated with the thickness of the substrate are diminished and a wider range of substrate thicknesses may be used By way of example an optical assembly with a thicker substrate is illustrated in . A thicker substrate may be desirable for example to provide greater structural strength and or to accommodate additional internal printed circuit board layers.

In one embodiment the protruding portion of each of the optical fibers is approximately 0.125 mm in diameter the substrate is approximately 0.150 mm thick and the protruding portion of each of the fibers is approximately 0.170 mm. As explained above the substrate may be approximately 0.150 mm thick. The thickness of the substrate may be substantially greater than 0.150 mm and may be for example between 0.2 mm and 1.0 mm thick.

It will be appreciated that the invention described herein presents advantages that facilitate the manufacture and use of the optical assembly . The substrate and mount for example are manufactured such that the alignment pin holes of the substrate are positioned relative to the die bonding elements to enable precise positioning of the optical fibers of the connector relative to the optical apertures of the substrate by inserting the alignment pins through the alignment pin holes . Furthermore When the optical die is flip chip bonded to the substrate the solder reflow process causes the die to self align with the optical apertures . Thus the assembly can be quickly and easily assembled by simply flip chip bonding the die onto the substrate and securing the substrate to the mount as explained above. The completed assembly may then be mated with the connector by hand using the alignment pins wherein a user simply slides the connector into engagement with the assembly . The advantages discussed in this paragraph also apply to the substrate and the connectors and .

Although the invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiment illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims.

