---

title: Methods and apparatus to monitor media presentations
abstract: Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture to monitor media presentations are disclosed. An example method includes collecting demographic information from a user. The demographic information is transmitted to a central facility. A panelist identifier identifying the user is generated. The panelist identifier is stored in a shared memory of the media device, the panelist identifier to be retrieved by a monitoring enabled application, the monitoring enabled application to collect monitoring information if the panelist identifier is in the shared memory and to disable collection of the media monitoring information if the panelist identifier is not in the shared memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503536&OS=09503536&RS=09503536
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09503536
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This disclosure relates generally to audience measurement and more particularly to methods and apparatus to monitor media presentations.

In recent years consumer devices have been provided with Internet connectivity and the ability to retrieve media from the Internet. As such media exposure has shifted away from conventional methods of presentation such as broadcast television towards presentation via consumer devices accessing the Internet to retrieve media for display.

Media providers and or other entities such as for example advertising companies broadcast networks etc. are often interested in the viewing listening and or media behavior of audience members and or the public in general. To monitor these behavior an audience measurement company may enlist panelists e.g. persons agreeing to be monitored to cooperate in an audience measurement study. The media usage and or exposure habits of these panelists as well as demographic data about the panelists is collected and used to statistically determine the size and demographics of a larger audience of interest.

The figures are not to scale. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawing s and accompanying written description to refer to the same or like parts.

Monitoring companies desire to gain knowledge on how users interact with media devices such as smartphones tablets laptops smart televisions etc. In particular the media monitoring companies want to monitor media presentations made at the media devices to among other things monitor exposure to advertisements determine advertisement effectiveness determine user behavior identify purchasing behavior associated with various demographics etc.

As used herein the term media includes any type of content and or advertisement delivered via any type of distribution medium. Thus media includes television programming or advertisements radio programming or advertisements movies web sites streaming media etc. Example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture disclosed herein monitor media presentations at media devices. Such media devices may include for example Internet enabled televisions personal computers Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 tablet computers e.g. an iPad digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox etc. etc. In some examples media monitoring information is aggregated to determine ownership and or usage statistics of media devices relative rankings of usage and or ownership of media devices types of uses of media devices e.g. whether a device is used for browsing the Internet streaming media from the Internet etc. and or other types of media device information. In examples disclosed herein monitoring information includes but is not limited to media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. and or user identifying information e.g. demographic information a panelist identifier a username etc. .

Media devices such as tablet computers e.g. an Apple iPad an Asus Transformer etc. present media using applications sometimes referred to as apps that access retrieve request and or present media e.g. Internet media . Many different Apps exist and can be downloaded by users through app stores such as for example Apple iTunes Google Play etc. Hundreds if not thousands of apps are available in the app stores that enable presentation of media. Examples of such applications include but are not limited to Hulu Netflix HBO Go etc.

Operating systems used on media devices are often closed platforms. That is the operating systems provide a limited set of functions that applications executed by the media device can access via for example an Application Programming Interface API . In some operating systems only a single application is executed at one time. When the media device executes the app the app is typically run in a sand box. That is the app is not allowed to communicate with other apps executed by the media device. In some examples apps have access to a limited set of functionality for sharing data with other apps. For example applications executed on the iOS operating system have access to a pasteboard that allows applications to share information.

Because communicating with applications to identify and or monitor media presentation events on devices using a sandbox approach is difficult in examples disclosed herein monitoring is enabled by adding monitoring capability to applications. In examples disclosed herein a software development kit SDK is provided to application developers from for example an audience measurement entity. The SDK facilitates instrumenting and or otherwise enabling applications e.g. media applications such as streaming video applications news applications browser applications image applications social media applications games etc. with monitoring functionalities which are able to collect and transmit monitoring information to a monitoring entity. In particular the application developers create apps that include media monitoring functionality using the SDK. Accordingly rather than relying on a dedicated monitoring application installed on a panelist computer e.g. a tablet a laptop a smartphone etc. instrumented applications disclosed herein are instrumented with instructions such that the instant apps effectively monitor themselves and or user interaction s with the instrumented apps. In some examples the instrumented application is referred to as a monitoring enabled application. Because the instrumented applications monitor themselves the instrumented applications and or the monitoring functionality provided by the SDK enables the instrumented application to for example notify the central facility when an app and or media associated with the app is presented notify the central facility what media and or app s is presented notify the central facility how the apps and or media is being presented e.g. via a tablet display via a television etc. notify the central facility of a duration of exposure of an app and or media associated with the app etc. In some examples the media monitoring functionality may be triggered by for example presentation of a media element such as for example a video audio and image etc.

However just because media monitoring functionality is implemented by the application does not mean that the user has consented to be monitored. Therefore to protect the privacy of persons not agreeing to be monitored it is desirable to seek consent before monitoring. In principle such consent could be gathered by every application instrumented with monitoring functionality by causing each such instrumented application to ask the user for permission to enable monitoring. However on devices that may include many apps the user would be asked for their permission many times. Repeatedly asking the user for their permission to enable monitoring may discourage the user from consenting to the monitoring. Furthermore in order to marry demographic information with media exposure and or app usage data it is necessary to obtain such demographic information from the user. In principle it is possible to request such demographic information whenever asking a user for permission to monitor. However repeatedly asking the user for their permission and or repeatedly asking the user to re enter their demographic information is cumbersome to the user and may discourage the user from enabling monitoring. In examples disclosed herein the instrumented apps to not directly ask the user for consent to be monitored and or further demographic information. Rather a single registrar sometimes referred to as a registration application requests consent from the user to enable monitoring and collects demographic information from the user. An indication of the consent e.g. a consent indicator to monitoring is then stored in a shared memory location of the media device e.g. a pasteboard a register a data file etc. . The collected demographic information is transmitted by the registration application to the monitoring entity. As disclosed herein this one registration event serves as consent to monitoring by instrumented applications. In particular applications with monitoring functionality e.g. instrumented applications do not ask the user for consent but instead check for the consent indicator on for example the pasteboard etc. If the consent indicator is present and indicates consent the monitoring functionality of the app is activated. If the consent indicator is not present and or does not indicate consent the monitoring functionality of the apps is disabled and or not executed.

Consider for example a media application instrumented with monitoring functionality. Assume the instrumented application has been downloaded to a media device e.g. via purchase in an app store . During operation of the instrumented media application the media application identifies whether the user has given their permission to be monitored. In examples disclosed herein the media application checks the shared memory location to determine if such consent has been given. When the instrumented application accesses the shared memory location for the consent indicator the instrumented application also retrieves a panelist identifier if present associated with the monitored media presentation. The panelist identifier is used to associate the media activity of the media device with the panelist. In some examples the panelist identifier is the consent identifier.

The example media provider of the illustrated example of includes one or more servers providing Internet media e.g. web pages audio video images etc. . The example media provider of may be implemented by any provider s of media such as a digital media broadcaster multicaster or unicaster e.g. a cable television service a fiber optic television service an IPTV provider etc. and or an on demand digital media provider e.g. an Internet streaming video and or audio services such as Netflix YouTube Hulu Pandora Last.fm etc. a web page and or any other provider of media. Additionally or alternatively the example media provider may not be an Internet provider. For example the media providers may be on a private a virtual private and or semi private network e.g. a LAN .

The example app store of the illustrated example of is the Apple iTunes app store. In the illustrated example the app store provides applications e.g. apps to users for use on the media device e.g. an iPad . While in the illustrated example the example app store is the Apple iTunes app store any other app store and or repository of applications apps may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example Google Play the Windows Phone app store the Ubuntu Software Center etc.

The example network of the illustrated example of is a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. However in some examples local networks may additionally or alternatively be used. For example multiple networks e.g. a cellular network an Ethernet network etc. may be utilized to implement the example network of .

The example media device of the illustrated example shown in is a device that retrieves media from the media provider for presentation. In some examples the media device is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via a display while in other examples the media device presents the media on separate media presentation equipment e.g. speakers a display etc. . Thus as used herein media devices may or may not be able to present media without assistance from a second device. Media devices are typically consumer electronics. For example the media device of the illustrated example is a tablet such as an Apple iPad and thus is capable of directly presenting media e.g. via an integrated display and speakers . While in the illustrated example a tablet is shown any other type s and or number s of media device s may additionally or alternatively be used. For example Internet enabled mobile handsets e.g. a smartphone an iPod etc. video game consoles e.g. Xbox PlayStation 3 etc. tablet computers e.g. an iPad a Motorola Xoom etc. digital media players e.g. a Roku media player a Slingbox a Tivo etc. smart televisions etc. may additionally or alternatively be used.

The instrumented application of the illustrated example of is software downloadable via the Internet. As such it is implemented as computer readable instructions executing on a logic circuit such as a processor of the media device . In the illustrated example the instrumented application is provided by the media provider . However the instrumented application may be provided by any other entity. In some examples the instrumented application is installed on the media device by the user by downloading the instrumented application from the app store e.g. Apple iTunes Google play etc. . The application e.g. an app presents media retrieved from the media provider . In examples disclosed herein the instrumented application is implemented to include monitoring functionality provided by the monitoring entity via for example a software development kit SDK . The monitoring functionality when enabled based on whether a consent and or panelist identifier is stored in a shared memory transmits monitoring information to the central facility . That is a monitoring enabled application e.g. the instrumented application is to collect monitoring information if the panelist identifier is in the shared memory and to disable collection of the media monitoring information if the panelist identifier is not in the shared memory.

The example data store of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. In the illustrated example the data store is random access memory of the media device . Furthermore the data stored in the data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the data store is illustrated as a single database the data store may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the media device.

The example registrar of the illustrated example of is implemented by a processor executing instructions but it could alternatively be implemented by an ASIC DSP FPGA or other circuitry e.g. a dedicated circuit . For example the registrar may be a component built into the media device . In the illustrated example the registrar is downloaded to the media device . The example registrar of requests permission of a user to enable monitoring. Furthermore the example registrar collects demographic information from the user e.g. by presenting a survey to the user .

In the example of an SDK kit is provided from the central facility of for example an audience measurement entity to a media provider e.g. an application developers . The provision of this SDK can be via an electronic communication over the network . The media provider employs the SDK to generate an instrumented app . The media provider then posts the instrumented app to the app store as shown by the electronic message of . In some examples the instrumented app must first be approved by a third party e.g. Apple before it is made available in the app store .

Once the instrumented app is made available at the app store members of the general public some of which are panelists of the audience measurement entity may download the app to their respective media device s via an electronic message as shown in . In a separate transaction which may be totally unrelated to the downloading of the instrumented app the audience measurement entity may download the registrar app to the mobile device s of panelist s . The registrar may be an app that is downloaded in an electronic message from the central facility as shown in and or may be downloaded via the app store e.g. along the same and or a similar path as the electronic message . When executed the registrar asks the panelist to consent to monitoring by instrumented apps. If the panelist agrees the registrar sets a consent identifier on the mobile device in a shared memory location accessible to instrumented apps. The registrar also collects demographic information and uploads the same to the central facility where it is stored in association with a panelist identifier.

When an instrumented app is executed on a mobile device the instrumented app accesses the shared memory location to determine if the user of the mobile device has consented to monitoring. If so the monitoring instructions of the app are executed to collect monitoring information and upload the same to the central facility via electronic message . If the consent identifier is not present the monitoring instructions are disabled and the app is executed without collecting monitoring information and without uploading monitoring information to the central facility .

The central facility of the illustrated example is a facility of an audience measurement entity e.g. the Nielsen Company US LLC and includes an interface to receive reported metering information e.g. metadata from the media device via the network . The example central facility of the illustrated example of includes an HTTP interface a registration data receiver a data store a monitoring data receiver a software development kit SDK provider and a reporter .

In the illustrated example the central facility includes an HTTP interface to receive HTTP requests that include media monitoring information demographic information etc. The HTTP requests are sent with the media monitoring information in their payload. The media monitoring information may include media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. user identifying information e.g. demographic information a panelist identifier a username etc. etc. The requests may not be intended to actually retrieve content but are instead used as a vehicle to convey the metering information. Thus the HTTP requests may be referred to as dummy requests . The central facility is provided with software e.g. a daemon to extract the metering information from the payload of the dummy request s . Additionally or alternatively any other method s to transfer the metering information may be used such as for example an HTTP Secure protocol HTTPS a file transfer protocol FTP a secure file transfer protocol SFTP an HTTP and or HTTPS GET request an HTTP and or HTTPS POST request etc.

The example data store of the illustrated example of may be any device for storing data such as for example flash memory magnetic media optical media etc. The data store of the illustrated example of stores monitoring information received at the registration data receiver e.g. demographic information transmitted by the registrar and or received at the monitoring data receiver e.g. media identifying information application usage information etc. . However the data store may additionally or alternatively store any other information. Furthermore the data stored in the data store may be in any data format such as for example binary data comma delimited data tab delimited data structured query language SQL structures etc. While in the illustrated example the data store is illustrated as a single database the data store may be implemented by multiple databases and or be stored in multiple memory locations of the media device.

The example registration data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s an analog circuit and or other circuitry. The example registration data receiver receives demographic information from the registrar application on multiple media devices. The received registration demographic information is stored in the data store . In some examples the registration data receiver generates panelist identifiers to be used to identify corresponding panelists. The panelist identifiers are is stored in the data store . The panelist identifiers may later be used to correlate media exposure and or application usage to a particular panelist and or demographic. In some examples the panelist identifier is transmitted to the registrar associated with the corresponding panelist as an acknowledgement of received demographic information.

The example monitoring data receiver of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD an FPLD an analog circuit and or other circuitry. The example monitoring data receiver receives media monitoring information from the instrumented application . As disclosed herein media monitoring information may include media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. user identifying information e.g. demographic information a panelist identifier a username etc. etc. The monitoring data receiver stores the received monitoring information in the data store .

In the illustrated example the example monitoring data receiver stores and analyzes the monitoring information received from the instrumented application s from different media devices. For example the example monitoring data receiver may sort and or group metering information by media provider e.g. by grouping all metering data associated with a particular media provider and or associated with a particular instrumented application . Any other processing of media monitoring information may additionally or alternatively be performed. In some examples the monitoring data receiver adds a timestamp to the media monitoring information upon receipt. Timestamping e.g. recording a time that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented and or the time that it was presented with the demographics of the user s of the media device s .

The example SDK provider of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD an FPLD an analog circuit and or other circuitry. The example SDK provider provides instructions to application developers to facilitate creation of the instrumented application . In some examples the SDK is provided such that the application developer s can integrate the SDK into existing applications. While in the illustrated example an SDK is provided the monitoring components instrumented by the SDK and or monitoring instructions provided via the SDK may be provided in any other fashion. For example the monitoring components may be provided as an application programming interface API a plugin an add on etc.

The example reporter of the illustrated example of is implemented by a logic circuit such as a processor executing instructions but it could additionally or alternatively be implemented by an ASIC a PLD an FPLD an analog circuit and or other circuitry. The reporter generates reports indicative of media exposure metrics and or application usage metrics based on one or more different types of client devices e.g. personal computers portable devices mobile phones tablets etc. . For example the reporter compiles media exposure metrics based on the correlation of the media identifying information the application usage information and the user identifying information. A report is then generated to indicate media exposure and or application usage statistics. In some examples the exposure measurements provide ratings information for different media e.g. a particular television show a particular website a particular movie etc. In some examples the exposure measurements indicate ratings information and or usage statistics for different instrumented applications.

Additionally or alternatively popularities of different types of media across different device types may be reported. Such different types of media may be for example news movies television programming on demand media Internet based media games streaming games advertisements etc. Such comparisons may be made across any type s and or numbers of devices including for example cell phones smart phones dedicated portable multimedia playback devices iPod devices tablet computing devices e.g. an iPad standard definition SD televisions high definition HD televisions three dimensional 3D televisions stationary computers portable computers Internet radios etc. Any other type s and or number of media and or devices may be analyzed. The report may also associate the media exposure metrics with demographic segments e.g. age groups genders ethnicities etc. corresponding to the user s of the client device s . Additionally or alternatively the report may associate the media exposure metrics with metric indicators of the popularity of the artist genre song title etc. across one or more user characteristics selected from one or more demographic segment s one or more age group s one or more gender s and or any other user characteristic s .

In some examples the media exposure metrics are used to determine demographic reach of streaming media ratings for streaming media engagement indices for streaming media user affinities associated with streaming media broadcast media and or any other audience measure metric associated with streaming media and or locally stored media. While in the illustrated example the media exposure metrics are used to provide information for streaming media the media exposure metrics may be used to provide information for any other type of media such as for example websites non streaming media etc. In some examples the media exposure metrics are audience share metrics indicative of percentages of audiences for different applications and or types of applications that accessed the same media. For example a first percentage of an audience may be exposed to news media via a browser application while a second percentage of the audience may be exposed to the same news media via a news reader application.

Although for simplicity the above discussion focuses on a single media device a single instrumented app a single media provider a single app store and a single central facility any number of any of these elements may be present. For example in a typical implementation it is expected that multiple media providers will offer multiple different instrumented apps to the public at large. Thus it is expected that there will be many media devices accessing such apps and that a significant portion of the users will agree to be panelists. Thus it is expected that there will be many instances of the above processes conducted across many devices at the overlapping and or distinct times. Thus for example there may be many instantiations of the machine readable instructions disclosed in the above flowcharts operating at the same or different time. Some of these instances may be implemented as parallel threads operating on a same device.

The example media presenter of is implemented by computer executable instructions. In the illustrated example the media presenter interacts with a QuickTime application programming interface API to display media via the media device . While in the illustrated example the QuickTime API is used any other media presenting framework may additionally or alternatively be employed. For example the media presenter of the illustrated example may interact with an Adobe Flash media presentation framework.

The example media monitor of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions. The media monitor of is downloaded with the instrumented app and is initiated when the app is launched on the media device . The media monitor of the illustrated example extracts metering data e.g. signatures watermarks etc. from the media presented by the media presenter . For example the media monitor can implement functionality provided by a software development kit SDK to extract one or more audio watermarks one or more video e.g. image watermarks etc. embedded in the audio and or video of the media presented by the media presenter . For example the media may include pulse code modulation PCM audio data or other types of audio data uncompressed video image data etc. 

Audio watermarking is a technique used to identify media such as television broadcasts radio broadcasts advertisements television and or radio downloaded media streaming media prepackaged media etc. Existing audio watermarking techniques identify media by embedding one or more audio codes e.g. one or more watermarks such as media identifying information and or an identifier that may be mapped to media identifying information into an audio and or video component. In some examples the audio or video component is selected to have a signal characteristic sufficient to hide the watermark. As used herein the terms code or watermark are used interchangeably and are defined to mean any identification information e.g. an identifier that may be inserted or embedded in the audio or video of media e.g. a program or advertisement for the purpose of identifying the media or for another purpose such as tuning e.g. a packet identifying header . As used herein media refers to audio and or visual still or moving content and or advertisements. To identify watermarked media the watermark s are extracted and used to access a table of reference watermarks that are mapped to media identifying information.

Unlike media monitoring techniques based on codes and or watermarks included with and or embedded in the monitored media fingerprint or signature based media monitoring techniques generally use one or more inherent characteristics of the monitored media during a monitoring time interval to generate a substantially unique proxy for the media. Such a proxy is referred to as a signature or fingerprint and can take any form e.g. a series of digital values a waveform etc. representative of any aspect s of the media signal s e.g. the audio and or video signals forming the media presentation being monitored . A good signature is one that is repeatable when processing the same media presentation but that is unique relative to other e.g. different presentations of other e.g. different media. Accordingly the term fingerprint and signature are used interchangeably herein and are defined herein to mean a proxy for identifying media that is generated from one or more inherent characteristics of the media.

Signature based media monitoring generally involves determining e.g. generating and or collecting signature s representative of a media signal e.g. an audio signal and or a video signal output by a monitored media device and comparing the monitored signature s to one or more references signatures corresponding to known e.g. reference media sources. Various comparison criteria such as a cross correlation value a Hamming distance etc. can be evaluated to determine whether a monitored signature matches a particular reference signature. When a match between the monitored signature and one of the reference signatures is found the monitored media can be identified as corresponding to the particular reference media represented by the reference signature that with matched the monitored signature. Because attributes such as an identifier of the media a presentation time a broadcast channel etc. are collected for the reference signature these attributes may then be associated with the monitored media whose monitored signature matched the reference signature. Example systems for identifying media based on codes and or signatures are long known and were first disclosed in Thomas U.S. Pat. No. 5 481 294 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some examples the code watermark is transmitted with and or in association with the media as media identifying metadata. The media identifying metadata may be formatted in a text or binary format such as for example an ID3 tag. In some examples the media identifying metadata includes the data from the code watermark etc. However in some other examples the media identifying metadata is derived from and or representative of the code watermark and or a signature etc. Example methods and apparatus to transcode watermarks into ID3 tags are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 646 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 661 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 443 596 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 455 961 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 646 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 472 170 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

In the illustrated example of the example media monitor determines e.g. extracts transforms derives decodes converts etc. the media identifying metadata e.g. such as media identifying information source identifying information watermarks codes etc. associated with and or transmitted with the media e.g. in an ID3 tag in a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Live Streaming HLS manifest in an Moving Pictures Experts Group version 2 MPEG2 transport stream in a timed text track in an encryption key associated with the media etc. . The media identifying metadata may be a code in for example a text or binary format located in an ID3 tag associated with the media. In some examples the media monitor converts the metering data into a text and or binary format for transmission to the central facility .

The example permission monitor of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions. The example permission monitor of the illustrated example monitors the data store to determine if monitoring is to be enabled. In some examples the permission monitor monitors for presence of a consent identifier a state of a consent identifier and or a panelist identifier.

The example monitoring data controller of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions. In the illustrated example the monitoring data controller manages records stored in the data store . For example the data controller controls transmission of stored records deletion of aged records determining if a storage threshold of the data store is exceeded etc.

The example user information solicitor of the illustrated example of is implemented by machine readable instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by a dedicated logic circuit an ASIC a DSP an FPGA and or other analog and or digital circuitry. The user information solicitor opens a user interface asking the user to enable monitoring of their media and or app usage. If the user declines the user information solicitor closes and in some examples may again open to request the user to join the panel after a period of time or in other examples may never ask again. If the user accepts the user information solicitor of the illustrated example solicits the user s demographics and or other information. This information is requested once and enables monitoring across all apps having metering functionality. In the illustrated example registration data e.g. demographic information is obtained from the user when the user joins i.e. registers for the panel. In the illustrated example the registration data is received from a user via a user interface of the media device e.g. a display a touchscreen etc. . Additionally or alternatively the demographic information may be obtained from the user in any other way e.g. via a telephone interview by having the user complete an online survey etc. . Additionally or alternatively panelists may be contacted and or enlisted using any desired methodology e.g. random selection statistical selection phone solicitations Internet advertisements surveys advertisements in shopping malls product packaging etc. .

The example identifier storer of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by a dedicated logic circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the identifier storer stores a panelist identifier in the data store . In some examples the identifier storer encrypts the panelist identifier prior to storing the identifier or an encrypted form of the identifier in the data store . Encrypting the panelist identifier ensures that sensitive panelist information is not exposed to applications that would otherwise attempt to gain access to sensitive panelist information. Accordingly instrumented applications do not have access to panelist information other than the panelist identifier which while identifying the panelist does not identify any sensitive information about the panelist e.g. a telephone number an email address a mailing address a social security number a credit card number etc. .

The example registration data transmitter of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by a dedicated logic circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the registration data transmitter transmits registration data received via the user information solicitor to the central facility via the network communicator . In the illustrated example when a user joins the panel the registration data transmitter contacts the central facility to request a panelist identifier. However in some examples rather than asking the central facility for the panelist identifier the registration data transmitter and or the user information solicitor generates a panelist identifier. In some examples the panelist identifier is generated based on the registration data e.g. demographic data and or other panelist information . For example the panelist identifier may be a telephone number associated with the panelist a hardware address of the media device e.g. a media access control MAC address a serial number etc. etc. In some examples the panelist identifier is not based on the registration data and is instead a random and or pseudo random identifier.

The example wake up timer of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by a dedicated logic circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In some examples the user may not consent to monitoring. In such an example it may be advantageous to periodically and or a periodically prompt the user to give their consent. In some examples the user may be offered incentives e.g. cash gift cards goods services etc. in exchange for their permission to enable monitoring. In the illustrated example the wake up timer waits for a period of time e.g. one week one month two months one year etc. before prompting the user for their consent to enable monitoring. In some examples the wake up timer a periodically prompts the user based on for example how long the device has been powered on an amount of data transmitted to and or from the device a download of a new app instrumented or not instrumented etc. In examples where the user has given their consent it may further be advantageous to periodically and or a periodically remind the user that they have given their consent to be monitored.

The example consent storer of the illustrated example of is implemented by computer executable instructions but could additionally or alternatively be implemented by a dedicated logic circuit ASIC DSP FPGA and or other analog and or digital circuitry. In the illustrated example the consent storer stores a consent identifier in the data store . In the illustrated example the consent identifier is a binary indicator separate from the panelist identifier that indicates whether monitoring is enabled.

The example network communicator of the illustrated example of is an Ethernet interface. In the illustrated example the network communicator transmits data stored in the data store and or registration data received by the user information solicitor to the central facility . The data is transmitted to the central facility using one or more HTTP requests. For example the HTTP request may be a dummy request in that it is not intended to receive data but rather is used as a vehicle to carry monitoring data e.g. panelist demographic information app usage information media identifying information etc. to the central facility . However any other way of transmitting data may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a file transfer protocol FTP etc.

Significantly the registrar of enables a user to consent to enable media and or app monitoring by any app with monitoring functionality e.g. by an instrumented app . Because the consent identifier is set on the media device any downloadable app instrumented with monitoring functionality can collect usage information after verifying the consent identifier is set to the appropriate state. Advantageously this approach turns every such app into a software meter useful for audience measurement. Moreover each such app software meter may be tailored to monitor the app with which it is associated. Alternatively the software meter may have a generic format such that all instrumented apps collect the same type s of data.

In some examples the media device may enable multiple profiles and or user accounts to be used e.g. a user account for a parent and a user account for a child . Accordingly in such an example the consent identifier indicates consent for profile s that have given consent to being monitored. For example a first profile e.g. a parent profile may consent to be monitored while a second profile e.g. a child profile may not. In some examples cross profile consent may be given. For example a parent may give consent on behalf of the child to enable monitoring for the child profile as well. In some examples multiple consent identifiers may be stored each associated with a respective user account and or profile. In other examples a single identifier indicating which profiles and or user accounts have given consent may be stored. In such examples the users of the multi user device are identified before monitoring begins to ensure only individuals who consent are monitored.

While an example manner of implementing the example media device and or the example central facility are illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example HTTP interface the example data store the example registration data receiver the example monitoring data receiver the example SDK provider the example reporter and or more generally the example central facility of and or the example media presenter the example media monitor the example permission monitor the example monitoring data controller and or more generally the instrumented application of and or the example user information solicitor the example identifier storer the example registration data transmitter the example wake up timer the example consent storer and or more generally the example registrar of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example the example HTTP interface the example data store the example registration data receiver the example monitoring data receiver the example SDK provider the example reporter and or more generally the example central facility of and or the example media presenter the example media monitor the example permission monitor the example monitoring data controller and or more generally the instrumented application of and or the example user information solicitor the example identifier storer the example registration data transmitter the example wake up timer the example consent storer and or more generally the example registrar of could be implemented by one or more analog or digital circuit s logic circuits programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s . When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example HTTP interface the example data store the example registration data receiver the example monitoring data receiver the example SDK provider the example reporter the example media presenter the example media monitor the example permission monitor the example monitoring data controller the example user information solicitor the example identifier storer the example registration data transmitter the example wake up timer the example consent storer is are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory a digital versatile disk DVD a compact disk CD a Blu ray disk etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example instrumented application of and or the registrar of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the registrar of is shown in . A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the instrumented application of is shown in . A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the central facility of is shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise a program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program s are described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing the example instrumented application the example registrar and or the example central facility may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein tangible computer readable storage medium and tangible machine readable storage medium are used interchangeably. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer and or machine readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer and or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently for brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable device or disk and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended.

The user information solicitor of the illustrated example determines if the user has agreed to become a panelist at block . In some examples the user information solicitor determines if the user has agreed to become a panelist by prompting the user to become a panelist. For example a prompt may be displayed asking the user Would you allow us to monitor your media exposure and or app usage However in some examples the user may have already indicated that they wish to become a panelist by for example agreeing to install the registrar . If the user has agreed to join the panel e.g. become a panelist block the user information solicitor solicits the panelist for user identification and or demographic data block . In the illustrated example the user information solicitor collects the demographic information entered by the panelist block . In the illustrated example demographic information may include for example an ethnicity an income level an address interests of the panelist and or on the any other demographic information related to the panelist.

The registration data transmitter transmits the collected demographic information to the central facility block . In the illustrated example the demographic information is transmitted by the registration data transmitter via the network communicator . In the illustrated example the demographic information is transmitted immediately upon collecting the demographic data from the panelist via the user information solicitor . However the data may be transmitted in any other fashion. For example the data may be stored in the data store and transmitted to the central facility at a later time.

The registration data transmitter then determines a panelist identifier block . In the illustrated example the panelist identifier is determined by requesting the panelist identifier from the central facility . However the panelist identifier may be determined in any other fashion such as for example by deriving the panelist identifier based on a social security number of the panelist based on a phone number of the panelist based on a hardware address of the media device e.g. a media access control MAC address of the media device etc. The identifier storer then stores the panelist identifier in the data store block . In the illustrated example the identifier storer encrypts the panelist identifier before the panelist identifier and or an encrypted form of the panelist identifier is stored in the data store . Encrypting the panelist identifier ensures that the identifier remains anonymous. For example if a social security number of the panelist was used as the panelist identifier the panelist identifier would include sensitive panelist information that should not be shared with other applications. However if the sensitive panelist information e.g. the social security number is encrypted the sensitive information contained therein is not identifiable by the other applications that may have access to the shared location in the data store .

In the illustrated example the consent storer stores a consent identifier in the data store block . In the illustrated example the consent identifier is a binary indicator separate from the panelist identifier that indicates whether monitoring is enabled. However in some examples a consent indicator separate from the panelist identifier may not be stored. In such an example the panelist identifier itself may serve as an indication as to whether monitoring is enabled. After storing the consent identifier to enable monitoring by instrumented apps e.g. monitoring enabled apps the process terminates. However the process may be restarted anytime by executing the registrar application on the media device . In some examples the wake up timer restarts the process by prompting the user to join the panel. Prompting the user to join the panel may be advantageous because a user that was previously unreceptive to having media presentation activity and or application usage be monitored may later give their consent to be monitored. In some examples a second user of the device may be receptive to enabling monitoring functionality. Prompting the second user may result in the user agreeing to enabling monitoring functionality. Furthermore the wake up timer may restart the process to remind the panelist that monitoring is enabled.

Referring back to block if the user has not agreed to join the panel block the consent storer ensures that the consent identifier and or the panelist identifier is not stored in the data store . The absence of such an indicator serves as a message to monitoring enabled apps that monitoring is disallowed. In some examples the consent storer deletes the panelist identifier and or the consent identifier enabling monitoring. However in some examples the consent storer only deletes the consent identifier that enables monitoring. That is the consent storer may leave the panelist identifier in the data store. By leaving the panelist identifier in the data store the same panelist identifier is used if the panelist later decides to rejoin the panel. In such examples the panelist identifier may not serve as the consent identifier. After ensuring that no indicators enabling monitoring are stored block the process terminates. However the process may be restarted anytime by executing the registrar application on the media device .

The permission monitor of the example instrumented application determines if monitoring is enabled block . In the illustrated example the presentation monitor determines whether monitoring is enabled by checking the data store to see if a consent identifier enabling monitoring is stored therein. In some examples the consent identifier is a binary indicator indicating that media monitoring is enabled. However in some other examples the consent identifier is the panelist identifier.

If monitoring is not enabled block the process terminates as the user has not given their consent to be monitored. In some examples a media device operating system allows a only single application to be executed at a time. Accordingly in such examples after startup of the instrumented application if the user has not given their consent to be monitored their consent cannot be given while the instrumented application is being executed. That is the user must exit the instrumented application to enable monitoring e.g. by launching the registrar . In some examples the media device operating system allows multiple applications to be executed at a time. In such an example the permission monitor may periodically determine whether the user has given their consent to be monitored. Additionally or alternatively the permission monitor may check the data store to determine whether monitoring is enabled when the media monitor detects a media event.

If monitoring is enabled block the media monitor waits until a media event is detected. Media events may be triggered when for example the media presenter begins playing a video the media presenter displays an image e.g. an advertisement the media application is restarted etc. If a media event is not detected block the media monitor continues to wait for a media event.

While in the illustrated example monitoring does not occur unless permission and or consent is given in some examples monitoring may occur regardless of whether permission and or consent is given. However the collected monitoring information is not transmitted to the central facility . That is the monitoring functionality of the instrumented application may operate but not transmit collected monitoring data unless consent is received. Once consent is received e.g. by detection of a consent and or panelist identifier the monitoring data controller may transmit the previously collected monitoring information to the central facility as well as future monitoring information . In other words the consent identifier may be retroactive in that it authorizes previous monitoring activity.

If a media event is detected block the media monitor determines a media identifier associated with media presented by the instrumented application block . In the illustrated example the media monitor extracts media identifying metadata from an ID3 tag transmitted in association with the presented media see for example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 646 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 661 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 443 596 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 455 961 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 341 646 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 472 170 . In some examples the media monitor determines the media identifier by extracting decoding etc. a code a signature and or a watermark embedded in the presented media.

The permission monitor of the illustrated example retrieves the panelist identifier from the data store block . In the illustrated example the panelist identifier is an encrypted panelist identifier. Encrypting the panelist identifier ensures that the application does not have access to sensitive panelist information.

The media monitor then creates a timestamp block . Timestamping e.g. recording a time that an event occurred enables accurate identification and or correlation of media that was presented and or the time that it was presented with the user s using the media device at that time. Usage of the media device may be identified in any desired manner.

The monitoring data controller of the illustrated example then creates a record including the media identifier e.g. the media identifier obtained at block the panelist identifier of block and the timestamp of block . In the illustrated example the record is formatted as a comma separated value CSV record. However any other type s and or format s of record may additionally or alternatively be used. For example the record may be formatted as an extensible markup language XML record.

The example monitoring data controller of the illustrated example determines whether the record should be transmitted to the central facility block . In some examples records are streamed to the central facility as they are identified and or created. If the example monitoring data controller is to transmit the record to the central facility block the network communicator transmits the record to the central facility block . In some examples records are stored in the data store so that they may be transmitted in a single transmission e.g. a single HTTP request a single file transfer protocol FTP command etc . If the example network communicator is not to transmit the record to the central facility block the record is stored in the data store by the monitoring data controller block .

The monitoring data controller of the illustrated example determines whether a storage threshold of the data store has been met or exceeded block . In the illustrated example the threshold represents an amount of time that records may be stored in the data store before being transmitted to the central facility . Records may be stored for for example one hour one day one week one month etc. However any other type of threshold may additionally or alternatively be used such as for example a storage limit e.g. 1 kB 64 kB 1 MB etc. . If the storage threshold is exceeded the network communicator transmits the store records to the central facility block . The media monitor then continues to wait for media events from the media presenter block . If the storage threshold is not exceeded the media monitor continues to wait for media events from the media presenter block .

While in the illustrated example a storage threshold is used to determine when to transmit monitoring information any other way of making such a determination may additionally or alternatively be used. For example monitoring information may be transmitted to the central facility at a fixed interval e.g. 30 minutes 3 hours 1 day 1 week etc. monitoring information may be transmitted in response to an external event e.g. user pushes a synchronize button the central facility requests updated monitoring information the instrumented application is started the instrumented application is exited etc. .

The example HTTP interface provides the registrar to the media device block . In the illustrated example the registrar is provided via an app store such as for example Apple iTunes Google Play etc. In some examples the registrar is provided directly to the media device via for example a website a mailed compact disc etc. In some examples the registrar is provided to a media device manufacturer and or reseller. In examples where the registrar is provided to the media device manufacturer the media device manufacturer may design e.g. develop produce manufacture etc. the media device with the registrar as an integrated component. In examples where the registrar is provided to the reseller the reseller may install e.g. modify alter adapt etc. the media device to include the registrar at or prior to the time of sale of the media device to the retailer and or to the end user e.g. the consumer .

The example registration data receiver receives demographic information from the registrar block . In the illustrated example the demographic information is received when the registration data transmitter transmits the demographic information received from the user to the registration data receiver . In response to receiving the demographic information block the registration data receiver generates a panelist identifier associated with the panelist. In some examples the panelist identifier is generated based on the demographic information. The registration data receiver provides the panelist identifier to the registration data transmitter of the registrar block . The panelist identifier is then stored in a shared memory e.g. a pasteboard by the identifier storer for use by the instrumented application .

The example monitoring data receiver collects monitoring information block . In examples disclosed herein monitoring information includes but is not limited to media identifying information e.g. media identifying metadata codes signatures watermarks and or other information that may be used to identify presented media application usage information e.g. an identifier of an application a time and or duration of use of the application a rating of the application etc. and or user identifying information e.g. demographic information a panelist identifier a username etc. . In some examples the collected monitoring information is correlated with the received demographic information by the reporter to create media metrics and or application usage statistics.

The processor platform of the illustrated example includes a processor . The processor of the illustrated example is hardware. For example the processor can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits logic circuits microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor of the illustrated example includes a local memory e.g. a cache . The processor of the illustrated example is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

In the illustrated example one or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit s a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example an audio sensor a microphone a camera still or video a keyboard a button a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit of the illustrated example. The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a light emitting diode LED an organic light emitting diode OLED a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT a touchscreen a tactile output device a light emitting diode LED a printer and or speakers . The interface circuit of the illustrated example thus typically includes a graphics driver card a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.

The interface circuit of the illustrated example also includes a communication device such as a transmitter a receiver a transceiver a modem and or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines e.g. computing devices of any kind via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform of the illustrated example also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and or data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives Blu ray disk drives RAID systems and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

Example systems disclosed herein enable monitoring usage of apps and or exposure to media presented via apps. Disclosed example systems are advantageous in that they avoid burdening consumers with repeated requests for consent to be monitored and or repeated requests for demographic information. Further such example systems enable the collection of detailed measurement data that may be tailored to the specific app instrumented with the monitoring instructions e.g. a first set of monitoring instructions may be used for a first app and a second set of monitoring instructions different form the first set may be used by a second app different from the first app . Nevertheless this different monitoring functionality on different apps can be activated by a single i.e. same consent identifier on a media device. Further instrumented apps can be made available to the public at large without fear that persons who are not panelists will be monitored against their wishes. Moreover any and or all such instrumented apps may collect monitoring information whenever accessed by a consenting user i.e. a panelist . The instrumented apps can thus be downloaded without a priori knowledge of the panelist non panelist status of the requesting user. Moreover all of this monitoring can be accomplished within a tightly controlled sand box environment such as the environment provided by the iOS operating system of Apple devices. Significantly in examples in which multiple different instrumented apps e.g. a first instrumented app and a second instrumented app exist monitoring across these different apps is achieved without using a dedicated on device meter ODM . As a result the audience measurement company is able to develop comparative usage metrics for different instrumented apps and or media ratings for media accessed via different instrumented apps even in a sandboxed environment that would not support an ODM such as those used in a traditional computer based media monitoring system such as that disclosed in Coffey U.S. Pat. No. 5 675 510.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

